---

title: Aviation watch
abstract: A wearable electronic device utilizes indicators on a display screen, such as tick marks positioned around the perimeter of the display, to point to the bearing of a desired location such as a nearest airport when GPS is enabled. The electronic device may be implemented as an aviation watch that comprises a display device having a screen including a plurality of indicators arranged proximal to a perimeter of the screen. The aviation watch determines a direction of an airport that is nearest in proximity to the location of the aviation watch and activates a subset of the plurality of indicators of the screen, the subset of the plurality of indicators providing a directional bearing to the airport determined to be nearest in proximity to the location of the aviation watch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297661&OS=09297661&RS=09297661
owner: Garmin Switzerland GmbH
number: 09297661
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20140630
---
The present application claims the benefit of 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 883 574 filed Sep. 27 2013 and titled AVIATION WATCH which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Because of their relatively small size and compact form global positioning system GPS enabled mobile electronic devices offer several practical advantages with respect to providing navigation and navigation related content and positional data to a user. For example watches that provide various position and navigation functionality to wearers are often used for running hiking biking and other sporting activities.

Techniques are described to furnish functionality to a GPS enabled mobile electronic device configured to be worn by a user hereinafter a wearable electronic device to utilize indicators on a display screen such as tick marks positioned around the perimeter of the display to point to the bearing of a desired location such as a nearest airport when GPS is enabled. In one or more implementations the wearable electronic device may be implemented as an aviation watch that comprises a display device having a screen including a plurality of indicators arranged proximal to a perimeter of the screen a global positioning system GPS receiver operable to receive one or more signals associated with a location of the aviation watch a memory operable to store one or more modules and a processor. The processor is operable to execute the one or more modules to determine a direction of an airport that is nearest in proximity to the location of the aviation watch and activate a subset of the plurality of indicators of the screen the subset of the plurality of indicators providing a directional bearing to the airport determined to be nearest in proximity to the location of the aviation watch. In embodiments other waypoints or airports may be selected for directional guidance using the indicators.

This Summary is provided solely to introduce subject matter that is fully described in the Detailed Description and Drawings. Accordingly the Summary should not be considered to describe essential features nor be used to determine scope of the claims.

The present disclosure describes techniques which may be implemented in a GPS enabled wearable electronic device that employ patterns of indicators positioned proximal to a perimeter of a display screen of a wearable electronic device for providing information to a user. Proximal to the perimeter of the display screen as used herein means closer to the perimeter of the display screen than to the center of the display. For example the wearable electronic device can include a plurality of indicators such as tick marks arranged about a perimeter e.g. a circumference of the display screen whereby an illumination or activation pattern of the indicators provides information to the user. In such configurations the indicators may be spaced from the center of the display by around 80 100 of the total distance between the center of the display and the perimeter of the display.

In one or more implementations the wearable electronic device may be implemented as an aviation watch that comprises a display device having a screen including a plurality of indicators arranged proximal to a perimeter of the display screen. The aviation watch acquires the locations of airfields e.g. airports waypoints navaids and or other points of interest POIs near to the aviation watch determines the airport location or other waypoint that is nearest in proximity to the wearable electronic device and activates a subset of the plurality of indicators of the display screen. In embodiments the subset of the plurality of indicators provides a directional bearing to the nearest airport or other waypoint .

Such a configuration enables a user e.g. a pilot copilot or other member of a flight crew to quickly ascertain the direction to the nearest airport relative to the aircraft with minimum pilot workload. Accordingly the user can maneuver the aircraft such that the indicators point up on the screen e.g. point to a top or a twelve o clock position whereby the user and aircraft will then be traveling toward the nearest airport.

In the following discussion an example wearable electronic device environment is first described. Example procedures are then described that can be employed with the example environment as well as with other environments and devices without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Example display screens of the wearable electronic device are then described that can be employed in the illustrated environment as well as in other environments without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

The wearable electronic device may be configured in a variety of ways. In implementations the wearable electronic device includes apparatus permitting the device to be worn by a user of the device. For example in one embodiment the wearable electronic device can include a wristband permitting the device to be worn about the wrist of a user. For example a wearable electronic device may be implemented as a GPS enabled aviation watch which may be configured as a wristwatch having a wristband that may be worn about the wrist of a user. However it is contemplated that wearable electronic devices may be worn in other ways. For example a wearable electronic device may include a chain or necklace permitting the wearable electronic device to be worn about the neck of the user a belt permitting the wearable electronic device to be worn about the torso of the user a helmet or headset mounted display HMD wearable goggles or glasses and so forth. Moreover it is contemplated that the techniques of the present disclosure may be implemented in any GPS enabled mobile electronic device that includes navigation and or flight information functionality. Thus in embodiments the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented in a mobile electronic device configured as a portable navigation device PND a mobile phone a hand held portable computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant a multimedia device a media player a game device combinations thereof and so forth. In the following description a referenced component such as wearable electronic device may refer to one or more entities and therefore by convention reference may be made to a single entity e.g. the wearable electronic device or multiple entities e.g. the wearable electronic devices the plurality of wearable electronic devices and so on using the same reference number.

The wearable electronic device includes a housing . The housing is configured to house e.g. substantially enclose various components of the wearable electronic device . The housing may be formed from a lightweight and impact resistant material such as plastic nylon or combinations thereof for example. However in embodiments the housing may also be formed from a conductive material such as metal or a semi conductive material. The housing may be formed from a non conductive material such as a non metal material for example. The housing may include one or more gaskets e.g. a seal to permit the housing to become substantially waterproof or water resistant. The housing may include a location for a battery and or another power source for powering one or more components of the wearable electronic device . The housing may be a singular piece or may include a plurality of sections.

As shown in the wearable electronic device includes a display . The display may include one or more of a liquid crystal display LCD a thin film transistor TFT a light emitting diode LED a light emitting polymer LEP a polymer light emitting diode PLED and so forth. In one or more implementations the display is configured to display text and or graphical information. The display may be backlit such that it may be viewed in the dark or other low light environments. In an implementation the display is a 100 pixel by 64 pixel film compensated super twisted nematic display FSTN including a light emitting diode LED backlight. In some configurations the backlight may generate orange and or red light to limit interference with the user s natural night vision and or night vision imaging system NVIS equipment.

The display may include a transparent lens that covers and or protects components of the wearable electronic device . The display may be provided with a touch screen to receive input e.g. data commands etc. from a user. For example a user may operate the wearable electronic device by touching the touch screen and or by performing gestures on the screen. In some embodiments the touch screen may be a capacitive touch screen a resistive touch screen an infrared touch screen combinations thereof and so forth. In implementations the wearable electronic device includes one or more user input devices e.g. a keypad buttons a wireless input device a thumbwheel input device a track stick input device and so forth . The user input devices may include one or more audio I O devices such as a microphone one or more speakers and so forth.

The wearable electronic device may also include a communication module representative of communication functionality to permit the wearable electronic device to send receive data between different devices e.g. components peripherals and so forth and or over one or more networks. The communication module may be representative of a variety of communication components and functionality including but not limited to one or more antennas a browser a transmitter receiver and or transceiver a wireless radio one or more data ports one or more software interfaces and drivers one or more networking interfaces one or more data processing components and so forth. The wearable electronic device may be configured to communicate via one or more networks with a cellular provider and an Internet provider to receive mobile phone service and various content respectively. Content may represent a variety of different content examples of which include but are not limited to map data which may include route information web pages services music photographs video email service instant messaging device drivers real time and or historical weather data instruction updates and so forth.

The one or more networks are representative of a variety of different communication pathways and network connections which may be employed individually or in combinations to communicate among various components. Thus the one or more networks may be representative of communication pathways achieved using a single network or multiple networks. Further the one or more networks are representative of a variety of different types of networks and connections that are contemplated including but not limited to the Internet an intranet a satellite network a cellular network a mobile data network wired and or wireless connections and so forth. Examples of wireless networks include but are not limited to networks configured for communications according to one or more standard of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE such as 802.11 or 802.16 Wi Max standards Wi Fi standards promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance Bluetooth standards promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so on. Wired communications are also contemplated such as through universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth.

In embodiments the user input device includes a control button . As illustrated in the control button is associated with e.g. adjacent the housing . While illustrates five control buttons associated with the housing other implementations provide different configurations. For example the wearable electronic device may include fewer than five control buttons such as one two three or four control buttons . Additionally the wearable electronic device may include more than five control buttons such as six seven or eight for example. The control button is configured to control a function of the wearable electronic device . For example the various control buttons and or other elements of the user input devices may be used to select between operating modes of the device as described below. In embodiments user input may be provided from movement of the housing . For example an accelerometer may be used to identify tap inputs on the housing or upward and or sideways movements of the housing . In embodiments user input may be provided from touch inputs identified using various touch sensing technologies such as resistive touch capacitive touch interfaces and so forth.

Further the control buttons and or other user input devices may be used to switch between various mode pages. As provided in functions of the wearable electronic device may be associated with a location determining component and or a performance monitoring component . Functions of the wearable electronic device may include but are not limited to providing timekeeping functionality by displaying on the display a current time e.g. indicators positioned around the circumference or perimeter of the display can indicate chronological seconds displaying on the display a directional bearing to the nearest airport such as through illumination of one or more indicators displaying a current geographic location of the wearable electronic device mapping a location on the display locating a desired location and displaying the desired location on the display monitoring a user s heart rate monitoring a user s speed monitoring a distance traveled calculating calories burned and the like. The user input devices such as one or more of the control buttons may be used to switch between activate control configure and otherwise use these various functions.

In some configurations control button may be configured as a direct to shortcut input. Depressing button launches a waypoint entry screen where a user may utilize one or more of the buttons and or other user input devices to input a waypoint such as an airport identifier GPS waypoint navaid combinations thereof and the like. Upon entry and selection of the inputted waypoint the device may provide navigational functionality regarding the selected waypoint. For example indicators may indicate the direction to the inputted waypoint and navigational informational such as distance ETA ETE and other metrics and mode information may be provided regarding the inputted waypoint. In some implementations button may function as an up input when depressed momentarily and function as the direct to shortcut when depressed for longer periods of time.

In some configurations control button may be configured as a nearest shortcut input. Depressing button launches a nearest airport list that lists nearby airports based on geographic distance from the current geographic location of the device . Upon entry and selection of one of the displayed airports the device may provide navigational functionality regarding the selected airport. For example indicators may indicate the direction to the selected airport and navigational informational such as distance ETA ETE and other metrics and mode information may be provided regarding the selected airport. Such functionality may be useful for example to enable the user of the device to rapidly locate nearby airports in flight without having to access several menu pages and inputs. In some implementations button may function as a down input when depressed momentarily and function as the nearest shortcut when depressed for longer periods of time.

In various configurations the indicators may be configured as tick marks positioned around the perimeter of the display. In other configurations a single indicator may be provided that is configured to be presented near or around the perimeter of the display. For instance the indicator may be configured as a pointer or arrow head that indicates time seconds minutes hours etc. in timekeeping mode and which provide directional bearing functionality described below in navigation mode. Thus the one or more indicators indicate chronological information e.g. seconds in timekeeping mode and navigation information bearing etc. in navigation mode.

In embodiments the one or more indicators can be illuminated to provide a representation of various information depending on the mode of the wearable electronic device . For example in a navigation mode the one or more indicators can provide a directional bearing to the nearest airport or other waypoint whereas in a timekeeping mode the indicators can indicate chronological seconds. In an implementation the display includes sixty indicators positioned around the circumference or perimeter of the display where each indicator provides representation of a chronological second to emulate the seconds hand of a conventional analog watch.

In accordance with one or more implementations of the present disclosure the wearable electronic device may be implemented as a GPS enabled aviation watch which may be configured as a wristwatch having a wristband that may be worn about the wrist of a user to secure the aviation watch to the wrist of the user. As illustrated in the wristband is associated with e.g. coupled to the housing . For example the wristband may be removably secured to the housing via attachment of securing elements to corresponding connecting elements. Examples of securing elements and or connecting elements include but are not limited to pins hooks latches clamps snaps and the like. The wristband may be made of a lightweight and resilient thermoplastic elastomer leather metal a fabric combinations thereof and so forth. In embodiments the wristband may encircle a portion of the wrist of a user without discomfort while securing the housing to the user s wrist. The wristband may also be configured as a strap to attach the housing to various portions of a user s body such as a user s leg forearm and or upper arm fixtures within the aircraft and so forth.

Referring to a wearable electronic device such as an aviation watch is illustrated in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The housing can include a location determining component positioned within the housing. For example the location determining component may include an antenna having a ground plane. The ground plane may be formed by coupling a printed circuit board and or a conductive cage with the antenna . The antenna and the ground plane may be coupled using solder connection elements or combinations thereof.

In one or more implementations the location determining component is a GPS receiver that is configured to provide geographic location information of the watch. Generally GPS is a satellite based radio navigation system capable of determining continuous position velocity time and direction information. The location determining component may additionally or alternatively be configured to utilize other global navigation satellite systems GNSS such as the GALILEO GLONASS and BEIDOU systems. Further the location determining component may be configured to utilize terrestrial position systems to determine device position such as radio navigation aids VOR cellular network triangulation Wi Fi network triangular combinations thereof and the like.

Location determining component may be configured to provide a variety of other location determining functionality. Location determining functionality for purposes of discussion herein may relate to a variety of different navigation techniques and other techniques that may be supported by knowing one or more positions. For instance location determining functionality may be employed to provide position location information timing information speed information and a variety of other navigation related data. Accordingly the location determining component may be configured in a variety of ways to perform a wide variety of functions. For example the location determining component may be configured for outdoor navigation vehicle navigation aerial navigation e.g. for aircraft marine navigation personal use e.g. as a part of fitness related equipment and so forth. Accordingly the location determining component may include a variety of devices to determine position using one or more of the techniques previously described.

The location determining component for instance may use signal data received via a GPS receiver in combination with map data that is stored in a memory of the wearable electronic device to provide various functionalities such as determining the location of the nearest airport and displaying a directional bearing on the display indicating the direction to the determined nearest airport generating navigation instructions e.g. via navigational points vectors and guidance information to a waypoint etc. show a current position on a map and so on. Location determining component may include one or more antennas to receive signal data as well as to perform other communications such as communication via one or more networks. The location determining component may also provide other positioning functionality such as to determine a heading latitude longitude an average speed calculate an arrival time and so forth.

The location determining component may include one or more processors controllers and or other computing devices as well as a memory e.g. for storing information accessed and or generated by the processors or other computing devices. The processor may be electrically coupled with a printed circuit board and operable to process position determining signals received by the antenna . The location determining component e.g. via the antenna is configured to receive position determining signals such as GPS signals from GPS satellites to determine a current geographic location of the watch. The location determining component may be configured to calculate a route to a desired location provide instructions e.g. directions to navigate to the desired location display maps and other information on the display and to execute other functions such as but not limited to those functions described herein. In some configurations the location determining component includes a first processor configured to process received positioning signals and to determine device location. A second processor discrete from the first processor may be incorporated into the device to provide other functionality including the navigation timekeeping and guidance functionality described herein.

A memory such as the memory of the location determining component may store cartographic data and executable modules used by or generated by the location determining component . The memory may be integral with the location determining component may be a stand alone memory or may be a combination of an integral and a stand alone memory. The memory may include for example a removable nonvolatile memory card. The memory is an example of device readable storage media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the wearable electronic device such as a software program configured to implement the processes and modules described herein or other data to instruct the processor and other elements of the wearable electronic device to perform the techniques described herein. A wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth.

Antenna may be any antenna capable of receiving wireless signals from a remote source including directional antennas and omnidirectional antennas. In one or more implementations the antenna is configured to receive and or transmit a signal such as a GPS signal. Antenna may include any type of antenna in which the length of the ground plane affects the efficiency of the antenna. In accordance with one or more implementations of the present disclosure the antenna is an omnidirectional antenna having a ground plane. An omnidirectional antenna may receive and or transmit in both orthogonal polarizations depending upon direction. In other words omnidirectional antennas do not have a predominant direction of reception and or transmission. Examples of omnidirectional antennas include but are not limited to inverted F antennas IFAs and planar inverted F antennas PIFAs . In contrast to omnidirectional antennas directional antennas have a primary lobe of reception and or transmission over an approximate 70 by 70 degree sector in a direction away from the ground plane. Examples of directional antennas include but are not limited to microstrip antennas and patch antennas.

The antenna may be embedded within the housing external with respect to the housing or a combination of embedded and external. In accordance with one or more implementations of the present disclosure the antenna is an embedded antenna. As used herein an embedded antenna refers to an antenna that is positioned completely within a device housing. For example antenna may be positioned completely within housing . In some embodiments antenna may be an external antenna with all or a portion of the antenna exposed from housing .

As discussed the location determining component includes the antenna . The antenna may be associated with e.g. formed on and or within an antenna support assembly. Antenna may be positioned on a top portion or one or more side portions of the antenna support assembly.

As described herein the location determining component may include a printed circuit board electrically coupled to one or more processing components. The printed circuit board may support a number of processors microprocessors controllers microcontrollers programmable intelligent computers PIC field programmable gate arrays FPGA other processing components other field logic devices application specific integrated circuits ASIC and or a memory that is configured to access and or store information that is received or generated by the watch. The wearable electronic device may implement one or more software programs to control text and or graphical information on the display as discussed herein. In one or more implementations the printed circuit board supports a bottom portion of the antenna support assembly. For example the antenna support assembly and antenna may be positioned in the center of the top surface bottom surface or to a side of the printed circuit board.

A processor may provide processing functionality for the wearable electronic device and may include any number of processors micro controllers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the wearable electronic device . The processor may execute one or more software programs that implement the techniques and modules described herein. The processor is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth. As described above the processor may comprise a portion of the location determining component may be discrete from the location determining component or may be one of several processors utilized by the device .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure functions of the wearable electronic device e.g. an aviation watch may be associated with the location determining component and or the performance monitoring component . For example the location determining component is configured to receive signals e.g. position determining signals such as GPS signals to determine a position of the watch as a function of the signals. In an implementation the location determining component is configured to compare the position of the wearable electronic device relative to one or more airports. For example the location determining component can access location data of airports as a signal from a memory e.g. a memory integral with the location determining component separate from the location determining component or a combination of integral with and separate from the location determining component compare the location data of the airports with the current position of the wearable electronic device and determine a directional bearing to the closest e.g. nearest in proximity airport. The wearable electronic device can then provide an indication of the directional bearing on the display . For example as shown in the display includes a plurality of indicators positioned around the circumference or perimeter of the display. The display is configured such that a subset of the plurality of indicators can be activated independently of the other indicators. The wearable electronic device can provide an indication of the directional bearing of the closest airport by illuminating or otherwise activating the subset of indicators. As illustrated in a subset of the plurality of indicators is activated near the top position or twelve o clock position which indicates that the user is oriented towards the closest airport. The display may also provide a compass ring and a direction of travel of the user which is provided in degrees in .

The indicators can be activated illuminated as pixels of a liquid crystal display LCD a thin film transistor TFT a light emitting diode LED a light emitting polymer LEP a polymer light emitting diode PLED and so forth. In one or more implementations the wearable electronic device includes timekeeping functionality where the indicators provide an indication of chronological seconds. The timekeeping functionality may include providing information such as time of day stop watch Zulu time time zone information and so forth.

The device may be equipped with a database of airport locations including the name and location of various airports. Other information such as information for each airport from its airport flight directory listing e.g. runway dimensions and orientation etc. may also be included the database. The database may also include location information for other waypoints such as non directional beacons NDB VHF Omnidirectional VOR beacons RNAV GPS waypoints for approach en route and departure operations user specified locations such as user entered destinations waypoints and flight plan information combinations thereof and the like.

The wearable electronic device may be configured to provide various location based information via the display . In one or more implementations the location determining component is configured to display course lines bearings related to waypoints a course deviation indicator CDI distance of deviation from a course and so forth. For example as shown in the display provides a horizontal situation indicator HSI page that displays a course line pointer a bearing to the next waypoint a to from indicator a course deviation indicator CDI and an indicator to show a distance of deviation . In embodiments as shown in the display provides an altimeter page display that includes indicia configured to furnish an alert altitude e.g. an altitude at which the wearable electronic device will provide an audible or tactile alert a pressure altitude a barometric pressure combinations thereof and so forth. In embodiments as shown in the display provides a map page display that includes indicia furnishing an indication of current location and direction a route to a next waypoint and a bearing to a next waypoint . In embodiments as shown in the display provides a nearest airport page display which can provide relative positional information. For example the display can include indicia furnishing an airport identifier for the nearest airport a bearing to the airport a distance to the airport a track over ground an estimated time for arrival at the airport combinations thereof and so forth. In embodiments as shown in the display provides an instruments page display that includes indicia furnishing a ground speed an altitude a track over ground a vertical speed e.g. as provided in feet per minute or other units combinations thereof and so forth. In the example embodiments shown in the plurality of indicators e.g. indicators can provide a visual indication of a bearing to a nearest airport regardless of the page presented by the device and or selected by the user. The user may depress button s to select the desired page for display as well as to control the various functions and features provided by each page.

The location determining component may also be configured to calculate a route to a desired location provide instructions to navigate to the desired location display maps and or other information on the display to execute other functions described herein among other things. The performance monitoring component may be positioned within the housing and be coupled to the location determining component and the display . The performance monitoring component may receive information including but not limited to geographic location information from the location determining component to perform a function such as monitoring performance and or calculating performance values and or information related to a watch user s movement. The monitoring of the performance and or the calculating performance values may be based at least in part on the geographic location information. The performance values may include for example a user s heart rate speed a total distance traveled total distance goals speed goals pace cadence and calories burned. These values and or information may be presented on the display .

The wearable electronic device may include one or more sensors processing elements and memory elements to support functionalities disclosed herein. For example as shown in the wearable electronic device includes an altitude sensor a position direction sensor a processor and a memory . The altitude sensor is configured to detect or sense an altitude of the wearable electronic device . For example the altitude sensor can include an altimeter a pressure sensor a barometer combinations thereof and so forth. The position direction sensor is configured to determine a position and or direction of travel of the wearable electronic device . For example the position direction sensor can include a global positioning system global navigation satellite system GPS GNSS receiver a cellular radio receiver a magnetic compass combinations thereof and so forth. One or more of the components of the wearable electronic device is powered by a power source such as by an internal power source e.g. a battery piezoelectric device etc. an external power source or a combination of internal and external power. Continuously utilizing the position direction sensor to determine the position of the device or utilizing another component of the wearable electronic device can quickly consume the available power from the power source such as from a battery supported by the housing . In embodiments the wearable electronic device is configured to activate and deactivate the position direction sensor based upon meeting certain conditions. For example the wearable electronic device can be configured to determine when to activate the position direction sensor based upon a measurement by the altitude sensor . In an implementation the wearable electronic device takes periodic pressure measurements via the altitude sensor to determine if the vertical speed of the device user is sufficient to assume the pilot has taken off from the ground in an aircraft. Upon determining that the vertical speed indicates that the wearable electronic device is airborne e.g. the determined vertical speed exceeds a predetermined threshold for flight the wearable electronic device enables or activates the position direction sensor . Simultaneously the device may enable various timekeeping functionality such as a flight timer. In this manner the wearable electronic device can function as a virtual log book by automatically recording flight time duration position distance and the like while avoiding power consumption by the position direction sensor when the wearable electronic device is not in flight. Additionally by periodically obtaining pressure measurements via the altitude sensor to determine if the wearable electronic device is in flight the wearable electronic device can activate the position direction sensor without the need of input from the user which can prevent a user from accidentally forgetting to enable the position direction sensor before flight.

In embodiments the wearable electronic device includes a user interface which is storable in memory and executable by the processor. The user interface is representative of functionality to control the display of information and data to the user of the wearable electronic device via the display . In some implementations the display may not be integrated into the wearable electronic device and may instead be connected externally using a connector such as universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth. The user interface may provide functionality to allow the user to interact with one or more applications of the wearable electronic device by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices. For example the user interface may cause an application programming interface API to be generated to expose functionality to an application to configure the application for display by the display or in combination with another display. In embodiments the API may further expose functionality to configure the application to allow the user to interact with an application by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices. Applications may comprise software which is storable in memory and executable by the processor to perform a specific operation or group of operations to furnish functionality to the wearable electronic device . Example applications may include airport proximity determination applications fitness applications exercise applications health applications diet applications cellular telephone applications instant messaging applications email applications photograph sharing applications calendar applications address book applications and so forth.

In implementations the user interface may include a browser. The browser enables the wearable electronic device to display and interact with content such as a webpage within the World Wide Web a webpage provided by a web server in a private network and so forth. The browser may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the browser may be configured as an application accessed by the user interface. The browser may be a web browser suitable for use by a full resource device with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA etc. . However in one or more implementations the browser may be a mobile browser suitable for use by a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. a mobile telephone a portable music device a transportable entertainment device etc. . Such mobile browsers typically conserve memory and processor resources but may offer fewer browser functions than web browsers.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and functionality as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The communication between modules in the wearable electronic device can be wired wireless or some combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation for instance the module represents executable instructions that perform specified tasks when executed on a processor such as the processor with the wearable electronic device of . The program code can be stored in one or more device readable storage media an example of which is the memory associated with the wearable electronic device of .

The following discussion describes procedures that can be implemented in a wearable electronic device providing navigation functionality. The procedures can be implemented as operational flows in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. These operational flows are shown below as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference can be made to the environment s of . The features of the operational flows described below are platform independent meaning that the operations can be implemented on a variety of wearable electronic device platforms having a variety of processors.

Referring to an example operational flow diagram for furnishing an illumination or activation pattern of indicators to provide directional information to a user of the device is provided. The operational flow includes operations and . As will be more fully apparent in light of the disclosure below operations and are depicted in an example order. However operations and can occur in a variety of orders other than that specifically disclosed. For example in one implementation operation can occur before operation . In other implementations operations and can occur substantially simultaneously. Other combinations are contemplated in light of the disclosure herein as long as the operations are configured to receive location data for the wearable electronic device and one or more airports.

Operational flow at operation which includes receiving one or more signals associated with a location of a wearable electronic device. For example the location determining component of the wearable electronic device may receive the one or more signals pertaining to a location of the device which may be received by the antenna . In an implementation the wearable electronic device may receive the one or more signals pertaining to a location of the device via the position direction sensor e.g. as a GPS GNSS receiver a cellular radio receiver a magnetic compass or combinations thereof .

From operation operational flow can continue to operation which includes receiving one or more signals associated with a location of one or more airports waypoints navigational aids navaids points of interest POIs and or other locations. The one or more signals associated with a location of one or more airports or other waypoints may be received from one or more sources external to the wearable electronic device. For example the location determining component of the wearable electronic device may receive the one or more signals pertaining to a location of nearby airports which may be received by the antenna . The one or more signals associated with a location of one or more airports or other waypoints may reside internally. For example in an implementation the locations of airports are stored in memory such as memory which is accessed by the processor . Thus device may be equipped with a database of airport locations including the name and location of various airports. As described above the database may also include location information for other waypoints such as non directional beacons NDB VHF Omnidirectional VOR beacons RNAV GPS waypoints for approach en route and departure operations user specified locations combinations thereof and the like.

From operation operational flow can continue to operation which includes determining which location of the one or more airports or other waypoints is nearest in proximity to the location of the wearable electronic device. For example the processor can compare data associated with the location of the wearable electronic device with data associated with the locations of airports to determine which airport is nearest in proximity to the wearable electronic device . Or instead of determining the nearest airport device may determine the nearest waypoint navaid VOR beacon or the like as selected by the user. As described herein the wearable electronic device can include a plurality of indicators arranged proximal to a perimeter of a display of the wearable electronic device to provide positional data to a user. Such positional data can include for example a directional bearing.

From operation operational flow can continue to operation which includes activating a subset of the plurality of indicators of the display where the subset of the plurality of indicators provides a directional bearing to the determined nearest in proximity airport location or other waypoint. For example the display can activate the subset of the plurality of indicators at the perimeter of display to provide the directional bearing to the determined nearest airport. Additionally or alternatively the directional bearing may indicate the nearest navaid or other waypoint selected by the user. Further in some configurations a first subset of the indicators may provide the directional bearing to the nearest airport while a second subset of the indicators simultaneously provides a directional bearing to a different waypoint e.g. a VOR beacon etc. 

Although techniques have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed devices and techniques.

