---

title: Suggestions to install and/or open a native application
abstract: A system and method are provided for providing suggestions to install native applications, the method including accessing a website on an application running on an electronic device, the website comprising metadata, obtaining, from the metadata, a unique identifier of a native application for downloading from a server, transmitting, to a server, a request for identifying information of the native application, the request including the obtained unique identifier, receiving, from the server and in response to the transmitting, the identifying information, displaying within a user interface at least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application, receiving user selection of the graphical component, and initiating, in response to receiving the user selection, an inline installation of the native application between the server and the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600258&OS=09600258&RS=09600258
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09600258
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140214
---
The present disclosure generally relates to native applications and in particular to providing suggestions to install and or open native applications.

A native application is a software application designed to run on smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and other computing devices. Typically a computing device offers an array of native applications to a user. These native applications may be free or purchased through an application store and installed at the user s computing device.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a system for providing a suggestion to open a native application. The system comprises one or more processors and a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by the processors cause the processors to perform operations comprising receiving input from a user via a search field of an application the input including at least partial entry of a search term. The operations comprise obtaining one or more search term predictions corresponding to the user input. The operations further comprise determining that a native application corresponds to the user input wherein the native application is installed on the electronic device. The operations further comprise displaying the one or more search term predictions together with a suggestion to open the native application as user selectable entries in association with the search field.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a machine implemented method of providing a suggestion to open a native application. The method comprises receiving user input via a search field of an application running on an electronic device the input including at least partial entry of a search term. The method further comprises obtaining one or more search term predictions corresponding to the user input. The method further comprises determining that a native application corresponds to the user input wherein the native application is installed on the electronic device. The method further comprises displaying the one or more search term predictions together with a suggestion to open the native application as user selectable entries in association with the search field. The method further comprises receiving user selection of the suggestion to open the native application. In addition the method comprises opening in response to receiving the user selection the native application.

The disclosed subject matter further relates to a system for providing an interface to install an application. The system comprises one or more processors and a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored therein which when executed by the processors cause the processors to perform operations comprising accessing a website on an application the website comprising metadata. The operations comprise obtaining from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application for downloading from a server. The operations further comprise transmitting to the server a request for identifying information of the native application the request including the obtained unique identifier. The operations further comprise receiving from the server and in response to the transmitting the identifying information. The operations further comprise displaying within a user interface at least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application.

The disclosed subject matter further relates to a machine implemented method of providing an interface to install an application. The method comprises accessing a website on an application running on an electronic device the website comprising metadata. The method further comprises obtaining from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application for downloading from a server. The method further comprises transmitting to the server a request for identifying information of the native application the request including the obtained unique identifier. The method further comprises receiving from the server and in response to the transmitting the identifying information. The method further comprises displaying within a user interface at least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application. The method further comprises receiving user selection of the graphical component. In addition the method comprises initiating in response to receiving the user selection an inline installation of the native application between the server and the electronic device.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

As noted above a native application is a software application designed to run on smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and other computing devices. Typically a computing device offers an array of native applications to a user. These native applications may be free or purchased through an application store and installed at the user s computing device.

Various websites accessible through a web application at the computing device also provide functionality similar to a native application. However these websites are typically developed for the web and thus only accessible through the web application e.g. web browser application . Web developers may promote one or more native applications that correspond to their websites. For example the formats of promoting the one or more native applications may correspond to full screen interstitials. These promotions appear on a website even when the user has already installed the one or more native applications corresponding to the website.

The subject disclosure provides suggestions to install a native application. In some aspects a website comprising metadata is accessed on an application running on a system. A unique identifier of a native application on the system is obtained for downloading from a server. A request for identifying information of the native application is transmitted to the server the request including the obtained unique identifier. In response to the transmitted request the identifying information is received from the server. In example aspects the identifying information comprises at least one of a name one or more social annotations one or more user ratings or a price of the native application. At least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application are displayed within a user interface. In some aspects the user interface is displayed as an overlay relative to the application. In example aspects the system refrains from re directing to an installation page for the native application on the server.

Alternatively or in addition the subject disclosure provides suggestions to open a native application. In some aspects an input is received from a user via a search field of an application running on a system the input including at least partial entry of a search term. One or more search term predictions are obtained corresponding to receiving the user input. A determination is made that a native application corresponds to the user input and the native application is installed on the system. The one or more search term predictions together with a suggestion to open the native application are displayed within the application as user selectable entries in association with the search field. In some aspects the one or more search term predictions comprise at least one uniform resource locator URL suggestion corresponding to the user input. In example aspects determining that the native application corresponds to the user input comprises identifying from among plural native applications on the system the native application as being configured to handle the at least one URL. In some implementations the identifying comprises filtering out native applications corresponding to web browsers configured to handle the at least one URL.

Each of computing devices can represent various forms of processing devices. Example processing devices can include a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a network appliance a camera a smart phone an enhanced general packet radio service EGPRS mobile phone a media player a navigation device an email device a game console or a combination of any these data processing devices or other data processing devices. Computing devices and may be provided access to or receive application software executed or stored on any of the other computing systems and .

Computing device may be any system or device having a processor a memory and communications capability for providing content to the electronic devices. In some example aspects server can be a single computing device for example a computer server. In other embodiments server can represent more than one computing device working together to perform the actions of a server computer e.g. cloud computing . Further computing device can represent various forms of servers including but not limited to a web server an application server a proxy server a network server or a server farm.

In some aspects the computing devices may communicate wirelessly through a communication interface not shown which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. The communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols for example Global System for Mobile communication GSM voice calls Short Message Service SMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messaging Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Personal Digital Cellular PDC Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 or General Packet Radio System GPRS among others. For example the communication may occur through a radio frequency transceiver not shown . In addition short range communication may occur for example using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver.

In some aspects network environment can be a distributed client server system that spans one or more networks for example network . Network can be a large computer network for example a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network or a combination thereof connecting any number of mobile clients fixed clients and servers. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like. In some aspects communication between each client e.g. computing devices and server e.g. server can occur via a virtual private network VPN Secure Shell SSH tunnel or other secure network connection. In some aspects network may further include a corporate network e.g. intranet and one or more wireless access points.

In example aspects server is a search engine which can provide search results in response to a search term received from one or more client devices e.g. computing devices . For example processing device executes computer instructions stored in data store for example to host a search engine website. A user of any of computing devices can enter a search term query via a search field of an application e.g. web browser on the computing device. The search engine of server can perform a web based using the search term entered by the user as input and provide the results of the search to the computing device .

In example aspects the client device e.g. any of computing devices in conjunction with a server e.g. server provides for suggesting installing and or opening a native application.

In some aspects a website comprising metadata is accessed on an application running on the client device e.g. any of computing devices . The metadata comprises a metatag or HTML code for identifying a native application. A unique identifier of a native application is obtained for downloading from the server. A request for identifying information of the native application is transmitted to the server the request including the obtained unique identifier. Alternatively or in addition the request for identifying information of the native application may be sent to a digital distribution platform for applications on the client device. In response to the transmitted request the identifying information is received from the server. Alternatively or in addition the identifying information may be received from the digital distribution platform for applications on the client device. In example aspects the identifying information comprises at least one of a name one or more social annotations one or more user ratings or a price of the native application. The client device provides for display of at least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application within a user interface on the client device. In some aspects the user interface is displayed as an overlay relative to the application on the client device. In some implementations the system refrains from re directing to an installation page for the native application on the server.

In some additional aspects the client device e.g. any of computing devices receives input from a user via a search field of an application running on the client device e.g. a web browser running on the client device . The search field can be configured to receive user input for a web based search the input including at least partial entry of a search term. The client device obtains one or more search term predictions corresponding to the user input. In example aspects the one or more search term predictions are obtained from the search engine server . A determination is made that a native application corresponds to the user input and the native application is installed on the client device. The client device provides for display of the one or more search term predictions together with a suggestion to open the native application are displayed within the application on the client device as user selectable entries in association with the search field. In some implementations the one or more search term predictions comprise at least one uniform resource locator URL suggestion corresponding to the user input. In some aspects determining that the native application corresponds to the user input comprises identifying from among plural native applications on the client device the native application as being configured to handle the at least one URL. In example aspects the identifying comprises filtering out native applications corresponding to web browsers configured to handle the at least one URL.

At step from the metadata a unique identifier of a native application is obtained for downloading from a server. The unique identifier of the native application may be obtained from the metadata at step .

At step a request for identifying information of the native application is transmitted to the server the request including the obtained unique identifier. Alternatively or in addition the request for identifying information of the native application may be sent to a digital distribution platform for applications on the system. A native application may be identified corresponding to the obtained unique identifier at the server. The identifying information can comprise at least one of a name one or more social annotations one or more user ratings and or a price of the native application. In some aspects one or more social annotations can include for example rated it stars 1 d it similar to e.g. based on other native applications installed popular with similar users popular in your area and top application . The identifying information of the native application may be retrieved by an application programming interface API of a digital distribution platform for applications. In example aspects the API is not available to web developers.

At step in response to the transmitted request the identifying information is received from the server. Alternatively or in addition the identifying information may be received from the digital distribution platform for applications on the system. At step at least part of the identifying information and a graphical component for installing the native application are displayed within a user interface in the system. The user interface in the system may comprise native code and or from the web browser application. In some aspects the user interface can be displayed as an overlay relative to the application. Alternatively or in addition the user interface can be displayed as embedded e.g. as an entry in the application. User selection of the graphical component for installing the native application can be received. In response to receiving the user selection an inline installation of the native application between the server and the system can be initiated. The system can refrain from re directing to an installation page for the native application on the server.

The search field can be configured to receive user input for a web based search and the input includes at least partial entry of a search term. The search field can be included in an address bar of the application the address bar enabling the user to enter a uniform resource location. In some aspects the search field can be a search input field of the application the search input field enabling the user to enter at least a portion of a search term to initiate web searches.

At step one or more search term predictions are obtained corresponding to the user input. The one or more search term predictions may comprise one or more search term suggestions associated with the at least partial entry of the search term. For example a search term suggestion as weather may correspond to the partial entry as weath received as the user input. Alternatively or in addition the one or more search term predictions may comprise at least one uniform resource locator URL suggestion corresponding to the user input.

The one or more search term predictions can be obtained in different manners. For example the one or more search term predictions can be associated with the user s prior search or browsing history where prior search terms or URL s entered by a user are compared with current input received within the search field at step . The prior search or browsing history can be accessed from local storage e.g. within a cache or from remote storage e.g. on a server in association with a user profile . Prior terms that match the current search term or partial search term can be listed as the one or more search term predictions.

In some aspects the one or more search term predictions can be based on the cumulative search activities of other users. For example the computing device e.g. mobile device may utilize a prediction service for automatically determining the one or more search term predictions based on the search term input by the user and publicly available data associated with the search activities of other users. The prediction service and the other users search activities may be provided for example by a provider of a search engine e.g. hosted by server for performing web searches. Further the predicted search queries may be algorithmically determined by the prediction service based on a number of objective factors e.g. popularity of search terms without any user intervention. The search data used by the prediction service may be updated frequently to provide up to date or relevant search queries.

The prediction service may be associated with an auto complete feature of the application that attempts to predict search queries of interest to the user e.g. the search string being input by the user based on the search history of the user and other users. The user may be able to enable or disable the application s use of such a prediction service via for example a user setting or configuration panel of the application. As noted above the search term being input by the user may be a portion e.g. one or more characters of a search string. As the user inputs each character of the search string the one or more search term predictions may be displayed in real time within the application. The computing device may be further configured to dynamically update in real time the entries being displayed within the drop down list based on the additional suggestions as predicted by the prediction service.

Upon the user selecting a search term prediction listed within the application the computing device can query a search engine e.g. hosted by server with the term corresponding to the selected search term prediction. The search engine can perform a search based on the term and the user can be provided with search results at the computing device. Alternatively or in addition upon the user selecting a URL suggestion listed within the application the computing device can be directed to the web page corresponding to the selected URL.

At step a determination is made that a native application corresponds to the user input and the native application is installed on the system.

In some aspects as noted in step at least one URL may correspond to the user input. Determining that a native application corresponds to the user input may comprise identifying from among plural native applications on the system a native application as being configured to handle the at least one URL. The identifying may comprise filtering out web browser applications that can handle the at least one URL. For example a first search may be executed by an operating system for applications excluding any web browser application that can handle HTTP intent. A second search may be executed by the operating system for applications including web browser applications and native applications that can handle the at least one URL corresponding to the user input e.g. http xyz.com . By comparing the search results from the first search and the second search a native application other than web browser applications can be identified to handle the at least one URL. The determination may be made by an operating system API on the system.

In some implementations determining that a native application corresponds to the user input may be based on one or more matches between the at least partial entry of a search term included in the user input and meta information associated with a native application. The one or more matches may be determined by comparing one or more characters of the search string and meta information associated with a native application. Meta information of the native application may include for example the name of the native application and or the description of the application. In example aspects meta information of the native application can be retrieved by an application programming interface API of a digital distribution platform for applications.

At step the one or more search term predictions together with a suggestion to open the native application are displayed within the application as user selectable entries in association with the search field. In some aspects user selection of the suggestion to open the native application may be received. In addition in response to receiving the user selection the native application may be opened.

Suggestion interface includes an illustration area a name area a ratings area a recommendation area and an install button . Illustration area may include for example an icon of the suggested native application provided by the native application developer. An overall ranking of the suggested native application may be displayed in ratings area . The ranking indicator in the example of AB is illustrated as a star system but various other ranking indications may be presented. One or more reasons for suggesting the native application may be displayed in recommendation area . The one or more reasons may be determined by the one or more social annotations as discussed in step of . Install button may display for example a price tag e.g. 2.99 if the native application suggested is not free. The user may initiate an installation process of the native application suggested using install button as will be described in greater detail below with reference to and . Information displayed in suggestion interface e.g. illustration name ratings and reasons and price of the native application suggested may be identified according to step of .

In the example of GAME ABC 4 is displayed as the name of the native application suggested with five star ratings and First shooter game similar to GAME A as reasons for recommendation.

Suggestion interface includes an information area and suggestion interface as described above. Information area may include a description area an image area and a review area . Description area may include descriptions for example to characterize the native application suggested. Image area may include for example one or more screenshots of the native application suggested. Review area may include one or more reviews from one or more reviewers that have used the native application suggested.

User interface includes an address bar that enables a user at the computing device to enter a location address e.g. URL corresponding to a web page to be loaded within the browser. Address bar includes an input box for user input. For example the user may enter the location address of a particular web page using one or more user input devices of the computing device. Alternatively or in addition input box may also function as a search field. Thus in addition to inputting web addresses for navigating to web pages the user may initiate web searches based on at least a portion of a search term entered by the user into input box .

Web page content or data loaded within the browser e.g. within a cache of the browser may be displayed in a content area . Content displayed in content area may be associated with the user input in address bar . The user may interact with the content displayed in content area using one or more user input devices of the mobile device e.g. a touchscreen to select inside the field and or entering text characters. User interface may include various other user control elements including for example navigation controls for the user to navigate between different web pages to be loaded and displayed within content area .

User interface includes address bar input box content area and a suggestion interface . Based on the URL or the at least a portion of a search term in input box a native application may be suggested to the user according to the process described in . Suggestion interface corresponds to user interface of . Suggestion interface includes an install button which may correspond to install button as described in . Suggestion interface may be displayed as an overlay on content area . In some aspects suggestion interface may be displayed as embedded in content area . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface .

In the example of www.gameabc.net is provided within input box and a suggestion to install a native application of GAME ABC 4 is displayed in suggestion interface .

User interface includes a search field that enables a user at the computing device to enter at least partial entry of a search term and or URL. Search field includes an input box for user input. The user may initiate web searches based on the at least partial entry of a search term entered by the user into input box .

Data loaded within the search application may be displayed in a content area . Content area may include one or more user selectable entries including for example images URL videos and or one or more native application installation suggestions. The user may interact with the content displayed in content area using one or more user input devices of the mobile device e.g. a touchscreen to select inside the field.

User interface includes search field input box content area and a suggestion interface . Based on the at least partial entry of the search term in input box a native application may be suggested to the user according to the process described in . Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface of . Suggestion interface may be displayed as an entry of the search results that is embedded in content area . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . In the example of GAME ABC is provided by the user within input box and a suggestion to install a native application of GAME ABC 4 is displayed in suggestion interface .

User interface includes a video content area and a content area . Content area may include one or more user selectable entries including for example images URL videos and or one or more native application installation suggestions. Video content may include one or more video content. User may select and or watch the video content displayed in video content area using one or more user input devices of the mobile device e.g. a touchscreen .

User interface includes a video content area and a suggestion interface . A full screen video content may be displayed in video content area . User may select and or watch the video content displayed in video content area using one or more user input devices of the mobile device e.g. a touchscreen . Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface of . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . Suggestion interface may be displayed as an overlay on video content area . User may select an install button in suggestion interface to install the native application suggested as described in and .

Users of social networking services may create associations with one another. The phrase social networking service as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to an online service platform or site that focuses on building and reflecting of social associations among users. These associations may be stored within a social graph at each social networking service e.g. maintained at remote server s . Such user associations may be defined on a user to user basis or as a group of users associated through membership within a group. As used herein a post generally refers to an item or document shared by one user post owner with one or more other users of the social networking service. A post may include original content as well as preexisting content shared by the post owner. The post content may include text images video audio links files and or other media.

Social networking services provide users with a set of posts for viewing as part of the user s social networking experience. The posts may include posts generated by other users and shared with the user. Such posts may include private posts as well as public posts owned by contacts of the user and shared with the user. When users begin a session at a social networking service or otherwise requests to view a set of content at a social networking service e.g. within a user stream or feed a set of content items posts is selected and provided for display to the user. The set of posts may include various content posted to the social networking service or other associated social networking services and or other services and being shared with or visible to the user.

User interface includes a post field and a suggestion interface . Post field may include a post shared by one user with one or more other users of a social networking service as described in detail above. Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface of . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . Suggestion interface may be displayed as embedded in post field . User may select an install button in suggestion interface to install the native application suggested as described in and .

User interface in includes an email thread area a suggestion interface and an advertisement icon . Email thread area may include one or more email threads. Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface as described in with an additional advertisement icon . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . Suggestion interface may be displayed as embedded in user interface . Advertisement icon may indicate that suggestion interface is a paid advertisement. User may select an install button in suggestion interface to install the native application suggested as described in and .

Upon selecting suggestion interface without initiating the installation process e.g. selecting an install button user interface is displayed in . Selecting of suggestion interface may include for example tapping on e.g. via touch input or stylus input clicking e.g. via mouse scrolling and or touching suggestion interface without activating the installation process e.g. an install button . User interface includes email thread area and a suggestion interface . Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface as described in . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . Suggestion interface may be displayed as embedded in user interface . User may select an install button in suggestion interface to install the native application suggested as described in and .

User interface in includes a map area a suggestion interface and an advertisement icon . Suggestion interface corresponds to suggestion interface as described in in with an additional advertisement icon . Suggestion interface may be displayed at any location within user interface . Suggestion interface may be displayed as an overlay on map area . Advertisement icon may indicate that suggestion interface is a paid advertisement. User may select an install button in suggestion interface to install the native application suggested as described in and .

User interface includes a search field that enables a user at the computing device to enter at least a portion of a search term and or URL. Search field includes an input box for user input. The user may initiate web searches based on partial entry of a search term entered by the user into input box .

Search field provides for a suggestion interface . Suggestion interface can be a drop down list interface. Suggestion interface can provide suggestions to the user based on the entry or partial entry of a user entered term within search field .

These suggestions can include but are not limited to search term suggestions and or URL suggestions to the user. One or more search term suggestions and or URL suggestions are obtained corresponding to the user input according to the process in step of . As described in details in step of a determination can be made that a native application corresponds to the user input within search field and the native application is installed for example on the mobile device. The suggestions in suggestion interface can include suggestions to open the native applications determined as described above.

In the example of the user enters the term xy within input box and suggestions are provided within suggestion interface based on the term xy. In this regard URL suggestions for example associated with the user s browsing history are indicated by icon which is depicted as a history icon. URL suggestions for example associated with related sites are indicated by icon which is depicted as a Globe icon. Search term suggestions displayed within suggestion interface are indicated by icon which is depicted as a magnifying glass. It should be noted that a history icon a Globe icon and a magnifying glass are examples of images that can be used for icons and and that other images or no image can be used.

Suggestions to open one or more native applications are indicated by icon which is depicted as the icon of the native application. It should be noted that the icon of the native application is an example of images that can be used for icon and that other images or no image can be used. User may select open button to open the native application suggested which is indicated by icon .

Bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of electronic system . For instance bus communicatively connects processing unit s with ROM system memory and permanent storage device .

From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. Permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass storage device for example a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device for example a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. System memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject disclosure are stored in system memory permanent storage device or ROM . For example the various memory units include instructions for providing suggestions related to native applications in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

Bus also connects to input and output device interfaces and . Input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices for example cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices for example a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks for example the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject disclosure.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects of the subject disclosure. In some implementations multiple software aspects can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described here is within the scope of the subject disclosure. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as computing devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components for example microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending webpages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

