---

title: System and method for motion gesture access to an application and limited resources of an information handling system
abstract: An information handling system includes a processor that determines a first orientation from orientation sensors and a sensor hub for detecting a motion gesture. The processor is further activated from a sleep state by the motion gesture and the information handling system includes a limited, ad-hoc access system that permits ad-hoc access to limited user pre-set or context-based system resources in response to the sudden motion gesture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613202&OS=09613202&RS=09613202
owner: Dell Products, LP
number: 09613202
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140123
---
U.S. application Ser. No. 14 101 612 filed Dec. 10 2013 entitled System and Method for Positioning an Application Window Based on Usage Context for Dual Screen Display Device invented by Deeder M. Aurongzeb et al. and assigned to the assignee hereof.

This disclosure generally relates to ad hoc application enablement with motion gesture waking of an information handling systems and more particularly relates to initiating ad hoc access to a sequestered application with limited access to the system resources.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an information handling system. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as clinical healthcare data storage and distribution financial transaction processing procurement stocking and delivery tracking provision of data services and software airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. Information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems. Additionally information handling systems may have two or more display screens for output of images and for input such as by touch screen operation. Multiple display screen information handling systems such as dual display devices may be devices with fully integrated display screens or display screens that are modularly connectable to the information handling system.

The following description in combination with the Figures is provided to assist in understanding the teachings disclosed herein. The following discussion will focus on specific implementations and embodiments of the teachings. This focus is provided to assist in describing the teachings and should not be interpreted as a limitation on the scope or applicability of the teachings. However other teachings may be utilized in this application as well as in other applications and with several different types of architectures such as distributed computing architectures client or server architectures or middleware server architectures and associated components.

Most businesses and other enterprises have sophisticated computing systems used for facilitating internal operations and for storing sensitive data protecting access to such data and securely communicating outside the enterprise s network for example to exchange information with business partners healthcare providers or the similar data exchange partners. These enterprise systems also interface with individual users. Individual users also use sophisticated computing systems to facilitate working software application contexts such as running office applications for database creation and word processing note taking accessing internet data applications gaming video playback entertainment video and voice communications email and other electronic communication websurfing music mobile applications and other media accesses. Much of present day information exchange is conducted electronically via communications networks. Currently a high degree of media entertainment and other applications are utilized and accessed electronically by users. At times there is a need for quick access to some resources without having to navigate full security measures used to protect information handing system resources and data. Full security measures may be burdensome or unreliable such as the nature of biometric verification systems to grant reliable quick and easy access in certain situations. Nonetheless granting quick and easy access to resources should still provide a strong measure of security for the resources and data of a mobile information handling system. A method and system are described herein to permit quick and easy access to limited system resources via a simple and efficient indicator. A motion gesture may be just such a simple and efficient indicator in certain embodiments. The limited access is ad hoc in that it is just for the purpose of a limited access to resources that are quickly needed. The duration of access may be short. Nonetheless the mobile information handling system must remain secure. Thus the ad hoc access to limited system resources is sequestered from the main system resources but files and information may be reached after a fully verified hard access or hard login is made. For example a login password or biometric authentication may grant access the full system resources.

Additionally traditional information handling system input devices such as keyboards and mouse systems are giving way to visual input interfaces such as touchscreens hover detection and motion sensing technologies. In many instances it is substantially beneficial to grant access to limited mobile information handling system resources for quick access. Utilization of multiple display screens is desirable to facilitate usage of the information handling system during situations when immediate access is desired but full login or security verification may be too cumbersome. Examples include when quick access to camera hardware is desired for a quick photo or quick access to one or more very recently used application is desired for discussion purposes in a work setting. Orientation and context of an information handling system may be beneficially used to determine optimal subset of system resources for limited access. The subset of system resources may include hardware and software application windows based on the anticipated priorities of usage from context. Policies for anticipated usage based on date time and location may prioritize which subsets of limited system resources are available for quick access as described in several embodiments herein.

Access should be fairly quick and simple. In an embodiment the access should be quicker and simpler or more reliable than access via a hard login or biometric authentication. An example trigger for limited ad hoc access may via a motion gesture of the mobile information handling system. The motion gesture may be detected via orientation and motion sensors in the information handling system. Several factors are relevant in determining policies for limited ad hoc access to a sequestered portion of the information handling system. Factors may include location date time and most recent usages of the information handling system. Additional factors may include a ranked priority of software applications orientation mode of an information handling system such as a dual display information handling system as described in the related applications and determination of the location of a user or multiple users with respect to the information handling system.

More specifically system represents a mobile user client device such as a single or dual screen mobile tablet computer or a mobile phone system. System has a network interface device such as for a wireless cellular or mobile networks CDMA TDMA etc. WIFI WLAN LAN or similar network connection enabling a user to communicate via a wired or wireless communications network such as the Internet. System may be configured with conventional web browser software. The web browser may include for example Microsoft Corporation s Internet Explorer web browser software Firefox or similar such browsers to allow the user to interact with websites via the wireless communications network .

System may include several sets of instructions to be run by CPU and any embedded controllers on system . One such set of instructions includes an operating system with operating system interface. Example operating systems can include those used with typical mobile computing devices such as Windows Phone mobile OS from Microsoft Corporation and Android OS from Google Inc. for example Key Lime Pie v. 5.x. Additional sets of instructions in the form of multiple software applications may be run by system . These software applications may enable multiple uses of the mobile information handling system as set forth in more detail below.

System includes display screen and optional display screen . Each display screen has a display driver operated by one or more graphics processing units GPUs such as those that are part of the chipset . The GPU may be integrated with the CPU or may be a separate GPU chip in the chipset. Each display screen also has an associated touch controller and to accept touch input on the touch interface of each display screen. It is contemplated that one touch controller may accept touch input from display screens and or as shown in the current embodiment touch controllers and may operate each display screen respectively. In the current embodiment touch controller is associated with display screen and touch controller is associated with display screen .

Display screens and may also be controlled by the embedded controller of chipset . Each GPU and display driver is responsible for rendering graphics such as software application windows and virtual tools such as virtual keyboards on the display screens and .

The block diagram of shows the mobile information handling system capable of administering each of the specific embodiments of the present disclosure. Some additional detail of another embodiment of system may include main memory and static memory or disk drive unit that can communicate with each other and the processor chipset s via one or more buses . As shown system may further include one or more video display screens and such as liquid crystal displays LCD organic light emitting diode OLED displays flat panel displays or solid state displays. System can also include a signal generation device or receiving device such as sound sensors or speakers not shown remote control transmitters receivers not shown and a network interface device that may be wireless. System can represent a server device whose resources can be shared by multiple client devices or it can represent an individual client device such as a desktop personal computer.

The mobile information handling system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. System may operate as a standalone device or may be connected such as using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the mobile information handling system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. System can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single information handling system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

In providing access to the sequestered limited resources a limited ad hoc access system is activated upon detection of sudden motion of the mobile information handling system with a set threshold or sequence of thresholds. For example the threshold may be an acceleration level or a deceleration level. However in the case of a mobile device travelling in a vehicle where there is constant change of motion including vibration or bumping a timer would restrict activation of the limited ad hoc access and shut it down after a time period has expired. Similarly use of the limited ad hoc access may be limited by time as well. Detection of motion by orientation sensors will wake the mobile information system. Orientation sensors may also be referred to as motion sensors. In several embodiments described herein control of granting limited access to a sequestered subset of resources is made by the embedded controller in the processor chipset . The limited ad hoc access system deciphers one or more of a sequence of motions and pauses detected by the orientation sensors to determined if a preselected motion gesture has been made. Then the limited ad hoc access system accesses a resource subset selector . The system designates a section of static memory or a drive unit as available for use with the limited access. A sequestered portion of memory is also made available to operate the selected limited subset of resources. The processor chipset with CPU and GPU in some embodiments may boot up a temporary limited desktop and operating system that permits restricted actions with the hardware or software applications to which ad hoc limited access has been granted pursuant to a motion gesture or similar trigger. The limited ad hoc access system operating via the embedded controller also enforces the limitations on the ad hoc access before a hard login or other full security authentication is required. Limits may include a limit on time of permitted ad hoc access or a limit on the number of actions performed or data amounts processed. Additionally there may be a limit on the number of times a user may access the limited resources via a trigger such as a motion gesture before a hard login is required.

The resource subset selector in connection with the limited ad hoc access system described herein determines priority of one or more resource subsets of hardware and software resources based on context such as day of the week time of day or physical location of the user and the mobile device. The resource subset selector operates via the chipset based upon activation of the limited ad hoc access system. The resource subset selector also takes into account factors such as most recently used resources and the time expired since the last use of the mobile information handling system. A preset number of recently used resources may be tracked for quick retrieval for example. In addition certain resources may not be available as part of a resource subset due to a security level of the application for example an email application may contain sensitive information not to be made available via the sequestered limited access. Other factors may include orientation of the information handling system or its display screen s and . Determining which applications were most recently operating or are currently running determines a context along with date time and location.

System of the current embodiment has a system sensor module . Various orientation sensors are included in this module to assist with determining the relative orientation of the mobile information handling system. Subcategories of orientation sensors include orientation sensors image sensors and sound sensors . Other orientation sensors are contemplated as well including state of usage activity sensors as discussed. Sensor system module is a sensor hub or an accumulator device that collects raw data from connected orientation sensors and organizes and processes data received from the connected sensors. The sensor hub also processes raw sensor data to groom the raw sensor data into a useable form of positional analysis for the mobile information handling system and its display screens. Such a sensor hub may be an independent microcontroller such as the STMicro Sensor Fusion MCU as well as other microcontroller processing systems known to persons of ordinary skill. Alternatively it is contemplated that the sensor and fusion hub may be integrated into a core processing chipset such as CPU systems for mobile devices as available from Intel corporation or may utilize ARM Core processors that serve as single or multiple core processors in alternative chipset systems. The sensor hub may communicate with the sensors and the main CPU processor chipset via a bus connection such as an Inter Integrated Circuit I2C bus or other suitable type of multi master bus connection.

The sensor data from the sensor hub is then further groomed by the limited ad hoc access system operating on the embedded controller and the resource subset selector . A relative orientation of the mobile information handling system in space the active motion and pauses of the mobile information handling system orientation of the two display screens or other components are detected by the sensor hub and determined by the limited ad hoc access system. Context information via a resource subset selector having a context engine determines additional factors as described above when selecting a subset of resources to allow ad hoc limited access. As described those factors may include location date time of day as well as consideration of state of recent usage activity and a working software application context.

In one embodiment the limited ad hoc access system and the resource subset selector comprises a set of instructions run on CPU or embedded controller in the chipset s . Typically the limited ad hoc access system and resource subset selector interface with an application programming interface API found in the information handling system software to coordinate various software applications. The API may coordinate the resource subset selector sensor hub input data other independent sensor input types such as camera or touch hover detection applications display device drivers PMU BMU applications controlling power boot kernel applications for start up and sequestering limited resources made available and the limited ad hoc access system.

The sensor hub module may include multiple orientation sensor types include orientation sensors image sensors sound sensors and other sensors. Some orientation sensors are connected through the sensor hub or accumulator device and system. Other orientation sensors may directly provide data to the limited ad hoc access system or the resource subset selector . For example the camera system and detection of gaze or presence of a user can operate on a different set of drivers and data be groomed by a software application running on the chipset s processors to interpret camera input. This data is then provided to the limited ad hoc access system or the resource subset selector .

Orientation sensors may include one or more digital gyroscopes accelerometers and magnetometers. Orientation sensors include reference point sensors. For example a geomagnetic field sensor may determine position of one or both display screens of the mobile information handling system. This positional information may provide x axis y axis and z axis positional information of the mobile information handling system relative to magnetic north pole and there for a reference point of the device position. In one embodiment two geomagnetic field sensors provide x axis y axis and z axis positional information for each part of a mobile information handling system such as two display screens or a display screen and keyboard. With this data the system determines the relative position of the information handling system in space including location of components relative to one another in orientation.

Also a digital gyro and accelerometer may be used to detect motion and changes in position. These sensors may provide a matrix of data. In one embodiment motion of the information handling system can also be detected in three dimensional space knowing orientation and a reference. Motion components include direction velocity and acceleration deceleration. In another example embodiment the azimuth or yaw pitch and roll values of the device are indicated by the raw sensor data. The raw orientation data for the entire mobile information handling system is relevant to determining a motion gesture by the limited ad hoc access system or resource subset selector . In another embodiment determination of direction velocity acceleration azimuth pitch and roll data may be made for individual components of the information handling system.

In connection with a reference point such as magnetic north as provided in one embodiment by a geomagnetic field sensor the azimuth can be determined as a degree of rotation around a z axis. In an embodiment the azimuth may be the value of the z axis relative to the device y axis as positive angle values between 0 and 360 . It is understood that a different range of values may be assigned in different embodiments.

Based on a reference point such as provided by a geomagnetic field sensor pitch may be determined as a degree of rotation around the x axis. In an example embodiment the angle values may range from positive 180 to negative 180 relative to the y axis although other value ranges may be assigned instead.

Roll is also based on the reference value for example that established by a geomagnetic sensor. Roll may be considered to be rotation about the y axis and its values may range from positive 90 to negative 90 . Again the value ranges assigned can vary for each of the azimuth pitch and roll as long as a set of values is used to define orientation parameters in three dimensional space.

In one embodiment the sensor hub may communicate and receive data from the following sensors via a bus connection such as I2C a digital gyroscope an accelerometer and a geomagnetic field sensor. The matrix of raw sensor data from the geomagnetic field sensor and the gyro and accelerometer sensors may be processed partly by a sensor hub or accumulator to provide orientation data for the mobile information handling system device. The sensor hub performs a fusion of data signals received from either a single sensor or multiple sensor devices. The sensor hub also processes raw sensor data to groom the raw sensor data into a useable form of positional analysis for the mobile information handling system and its components such as keyboards and display screens. In the example embodiment the sensor hub is an independent microcontroller such as the STMicro Sensor Fusion MCU.

Typically system may also include microphones and speakers for audio input and output not shown . The microphones and speakers are connected through an HDA Codec such as the Realtek ALC 5642 or similar such codec. Data from the microphones may serve motion sensing using a Doppler Effect detection of display screen locations.

No more than three orientation sensors are needed. A reference sensor and a motion sensor is associated with an information handling system to determine its orientation and motion. A third sensor may be either another reference sensor or a motion sensor may be associated with or attached to a second component to provide location or movement of the second component relative to the first component. Additional discussion of detection of components such as dual screens or a display screen and a keyboard are discussed in greater detail in the related applications incorporated by reference. Algorithmic calculation of the sensor data from the first display screen such as a geomagnetic field reference sensor and an accelerometer motion sensor may be used to determine the orientation of the information handling system according to a geomagnetic field or other reference point. Some sensor types may be combination sensor devices in certain embodiments as is known in the art. For example a motion sensor may be used that combines the functions of a digital gyroscope and accelerometer to detect motion. Thus one accelerometer and one digital gyroscope or one gyro accelerometer combination devices may be used along with a reference sensor to determine the mobile information handling system orientation. Any combination of the above reference sensors and motion sensors may be used in a three sensor embodiment to determine orientation and motion of the information handling system.

It is contemplated that more sensors associated with the mobile information handling system provide more data permitting increased accuracy in determination the orientation and motion components. This has trade offs however in materials cost space occupancy and power consumption however.

Other techniques are also contemplated to determine relative position and movement of the mobile information handling system. For example Doppler Effect sound sensors may typically include one or more microphones and speakers used in connection with Doppler effect calculations to determine relative position of components in a mobile information handling system. A transmitter and microphone receiver can detect a Doppler shift in sound or ultrasound signals to measure distance or location. In one example the Doppler Effect sensors may operate in the 0 40 kHz range to detect relative location of the hinged components of an information handling system.

Image sensors may include a camera photocell or color sensor. A photocell may detect the open or closed state of a mobile information handling system by determining hinged components are no longer in a closed position when light is detected by the photocell. Additionally the photocell may detect ambient light levels in determining brightness levels of one or more display screens. A photocell may even be used to indicate when a display screen is oriented face down on a surface such as a table.

A camera may be used as an image sensor to provide several types of feedback. It may be used as a light sensor similar to a photocell. A camera may also be used to facilitate a reference point for orientation by detecting the presence and location of a user in front of one or more display screens. Location of a user relative to the display screen s of an information handling system may provide a rough user viewing vector that may be used to determine whether access is to be granted or a type of subset of resources that may be selected by the resource subset selector . The camera may be tasked to sense the position of a user for example directly in front above below to the right or to the left of the plane of the display screen as well as using facial recognition capability as is known to the art to determine the orientation of the person s face. This information enables the system to determine if a photo video application is desired or another type of software or hardware application is desired for quick access.

In addition to orientation sensors image sensors and sound sensors other sensors such as a variety of state of usage activity sensors are contemplated. For example touch or hover sensors may detect whether screen is actively being used. Proximity sensors may detect the location of a user relative to the information handling system. Proximity sensors in a least one display screen may detect the position of a user for example directly in front above below to the right or to the left of the plane of the display screen and thus infer the viewing vector based on the position of the user or users. Proximity sensors may be a variety of types including infrared radiofrequency magnetic capacitive or other techniques used to detect the surroundings of the information handling system. Similar to the camera this proximity sensor information enables the system to correctly determine whether ad hoc access is requested versus an accidental movement or to determine a subset of selected resources for ad hoc access.

Another state of usage activity sensor is a Hall Effect sensor that may detect when a magnet of certain polarity and strength is in proximity to the sensor. It is used to detect the closed position of a device with two sides. For example a Hall Effect sensor may determine when two integrably hinged display screens are closed onto one another so that a magnet in one screen triggers a Hall Effect sensor in the second screen. Alternatively a different Hall Effect sensor may determine if the hinged display screens are open to an orientation of 360 so that the back sides of the display screens are in proximity such that a magnet located with one display screen triggers the Hall Effect sensor of the other.

Hall Effect magnets and magnetic sensors may be deployed as a type of motion sensor such as orientation sensor although it is also a position or state sensor. It is known in the art that a relative angle between a magnetic field source of known polarity and strength may be determined by strength and change to a magnetization vector detected by magneto resistive detectors of a Hall Effect sensor. Thus motion and relative angle may also be detected by the Hall Effect sensors. Other detectors are also contemplated such as a hinge angle detector that may be mechanical electromechanical or another detecting method to determine how far the hinge between the two display screens has been opened. Such detectors are known in the art.

The context engine determines what software applications are operating on the mobile information handling system if any as well as what software or hardware applications were most recently used and when. History of software application contexts such as running office applications for database creation and word processing note taking accessing internet data applications gaming video playback entertainment video and voice communications email and other electronic communication websurfing music mobile applications and others are logged. The system may identify a limited number of recently used applications as a subset of resources to be quickly accessed. This number may be preset in advance. In one embodiment the preset number may be established according to settings by a user. The number of recent applications may be different among different subsets of resources. In other words a work related subset may call for more recently used applications than a recreational related subset in one example. In one example embodiment the five most recent applications opened on the mobile information handling system may be grouped as a resource subset to be opened in a sequestered desktop or operating system upon determining a motion gesture. Any number of recently used software and hardware applications may be logged and grouped as a resource subset. The logging of recently used applications may be selective as well. The number of recently used applications for a subset of resources may also filter resources or applications deemed to sensitive to permit quick access even in the sequestered setting. For example certain applications types may be logged while others are not logged for grouping according to likelihood of desirability of quick access to such an application or the security sensitivity of an application. Some applications such as a sensitive proprietary software system may be limited from accessibility via the limited ad hoc access system.

In an example embodiment the limited ad hoc access system may detect that a user should be in a recreational environment due to calendar designations of vacation or by determining that it is a weekend or after hours. Additionally the limited ad hoc system may determine that the user located at a home location. In such cases the working software application context would be recreational applications and the user may be presented with a set of limited system resources supporting recreational applications or hardware. In another example embodiment the limited ad hoc access system may detect that a user should be in a work environment by determining that the system is being used on a weekday during normal working hours or is scheduled by the user to be working in a calendar. In the latter case the working software application context would be work related applications and the user may be presented with a set of limited system resources supporting work environment applications or hardware. The set of limited system resources may be preset by a user and may include a plurality of sets of limited system resources.

The most basic gesture contemplated is one where the limited ad hoc access system detects an velocity or acceleration motion exceeding a threshold velocity or acceleration level such as by lifting the mobile device. In an example embodiment a velocity threshold should exceed 1 ft second as detected by an accelerometer in the mobile device. In an alternative embodiment the velocity threshold would be 0.5 ft second. Selection of any velocity or acceleration threshold is contemplated. It is expected that threshold is selected such that inadvertent movement of the mobile device will not trigger low security access to sequestered resources of the mobile device. Lifting the device at an acceleration or velocity threshold is the simplest and quickest access to sequestered resources on the mobile device.

In an alternative embodiment an acceleration may be followed by a stop deceleration . In yet another alternative embodiment the acceleration may be followed by a pause for a short period of time. Direction of the acceleration and deceleration motions may or may not be important. The variety of orientation sensors described above such as the accelerometer gyroscope geomagnetic sensor and others are capable of detecting the acceleration deceleration direction of the motion gesture components. The sensor hub accepts and integrates the data from the various sensors used and may add a time component to determine pauses etc. Several example motion gestures are illustrated in .

In one specific embodiment the direction of the motion gesture may be relevant but may anticipate some deviation in the motion. For example the motion direction may vary due to variation in a user s wrist A pivot being roughly in a supination pronation motion. Alternatively the wrist A motion may be in a flexion extension motion while holding the information handling system. A lift or drop may be to detect velocity of the information handling system beyond a threshold level in a roughly upward or downward direction. In an alternative embodiment an additional sequence of motion actions or pauses are contemplated. This may include an acceleration beyond a threshold level followed by a deceleration beyond a threshold deceleration level. In an additional embodiment the lift or drop motion may require that a deceleration be followed by a stop or pause of motion. The pause may be for a predetermined period of time. Normally this period of time will be short such as on the order of a few seconds or less. Upon execution of the motion gesture the limited ad hoc access system triggers access to limited resources.

There is no requirement that all sensor types be present. For example a sensor module may only need a motion detector and a reference sensor as described above for one display screen and another sensor in a second display screen. For example either an accelerometer or a gyroscope and a reference sensor such as a geomagnetic sensor may be associated with one display screen A while the other display screen A has a sensor to detect changes or differences between the two screens A and A. The second screen may use a second geomagnetic sensor or one motion sensor such as the gyroscope or accelerometer . The more sensor data available in each display screen A and A of the dual display information handling system the better accuracy of the orientation and motion data and less computing required to detect and determine the motion gesture. The down side however is added expense space usage and power consumption that many sensors will utilize in the information handling system.

The example lift or drop embodiment of may be designed to be simple to execute by the user. Thus the orientation of the information handling system the direction of movement and the start and stop locations may vary to a reasonable degree to allow for variability in the motion gesture made by the user from time to time. For example the dual display information handling system A has a first display screen A in housing A and a second display screen A in housing A in the disclosed embodiment. As illustrated in this embodiment the dual display information handling system is in a portrait page orientation and the screens are oriented in a dual tablet usage mode orientation with both the first display screen A and the second display screen A viewable. First display screen A and second display screen A or their housings A and A are connected via a hinge structure along one side of each display screen. The information handling system A may be tilted so that it is not in strictly portrait page orientation but may be off by some degree although the motion gesture may still activate the limited ad hoc access system.

The motion gesture acceleration and deceleration direction may also be required to be roughly in a downward direction. A precise vector of direction is not necessary however. For example to account for some variation due to wrist pivot a tilt or curve in the downward direction may be accommodated by the direction of the downward acceleration and deceleration . In an alternative embodiment the lift motion may be a roughly upward motion gesture. In such an embodiment similarly the upward acceleration direction may have a tilt or curve in the motion of the information handling system . The balance between intention to activate required by precise movements and avoidance of inadvertent access versus ease of use and accommodation of variability may be customized via sensitivity settings for the ad hoc limited access system.

Hinge structure may run most of the entire length of one side of each of the first display screen A or housing A and second display screen A or housing A. Alternatively one or more hinges may be connected only at portions of the edges of the two display screens A and A or their respective housings A and A. For example one hinge point connection may be sufficient at only one spot along the edge of the two display screens. In another embodiment two connection points may be sufficient. In this example the two connection points may be near the ends of the hinged edges of the two display screens A and A in an example embodiment. The hinge connection A may include power and communication connections allowing information and power to be transferred between display screens A and A and their respective housings A and A. This will provide flexibility on where to locate various processors power sources connections and sensors as between the housings of display screens A and A. In another embodiment one or more display screens A and A may not require any housing and most or all components may be stored in the hinge connection or the housing of the other display screen. The angle of the hinge connection may have an impact as well and be part of a sequence of motions and pauses for a motion gesture. For example the lift gesture may include opening the hinge of the dual screens from a laptop mode to a dual tablet mode. This could for example indicate to the limited ad hoc access system allow quick access to a camera application and to make it viewable on both display screens as opposed to just one display screen when the hinge angle indicates that the dual display information handling system is in dual tablet mode. Differences between usage modes of a dual display information handling system is disclosed in further detail in related applications described above and incorporated herein by reference.

In yet another embodiment the hinge connection may be disconnectable to permit display screens A and A to operate as display screens connected by a wireless connection or as altogether independent information handling systems such as tablets. Magnetic connectivity may maintain the hinge structure when a disconnectable hinge is connected. Wireless data connection between detachable display screens A and A may be made via wireless communication standards such as near field communication NFC per standards ISO 18000 3 ISO 13157 and related standards or low power Bluetooth based connections e.g. IEEE 802.15.1 maintained between the detachable display screens. Separate power sources such as batteries may need to be provided for each of the display screens however coordination of power savings strategies may still be utilized to preserve battery power on one or both devices in accordance with the disclosures herein.

The motion gesture acceleration and deceleration directions may thus only be roughly in a downward direction followed by an approximate upward direction. For example to account for some variation due to wrist pivot a tilt or curve in the downward direction may be accommodated by the direction of the downward acceleration and deceleration. Similarly in the upward acceleration and deceleration there may be a tilt or curve in the motion of the information handling system when it returns to the original starting point for the motion gesture. In yet another variation on the embodiments disclosed the starting point and the finishing point for the motion gesture may only be somewhat near one another or the start and finish locations of the motion gesture may not be relevant at all as long as the downward acceleration deceleration motion followed shortly by an upward acceleration deceleration motion is detected.

The sequence of actions for a bounce may be to accelerate in a roughly downward direction decelerate stop accelerate back up in the reverse rough direction then decelerate to a stop and pause for a predetermined amount of time. Alternatively in a 1.5 times bounce the downward acceleration and deceleration must be repeated before a stop and pause. In this embodiment the starting and ending location of the motion gesture would not be the near the same location. The downward acceleration and deceleration followed by the upward acceleration and deceleration must be repeated before a stop and pause in a 2 bounce and may be repeated multiple times for additional bounce cycles as desired. Additional bounce cycle embodiments will have an advantage of being more certain motion gestures intended to activate the limited ad hoc access system. This avoids potentially inadvertent movements activating access to limited system resources.

In yet another variation on the embodiments disclosed the starting point and the finishing point for the bounce motion gesture may not be near one another. In another embodiment the start and finish locations of the motion gesture may not be relevant at all as long as the downward acceleration deceleration motion followed shortly by an upward acceleration deceleration motion is detected. For example the bounce may proceed back in an upward direction a shorter distance than the downward motion followed by a pause of predetermined duration. The sequence of actions for a bounce in this alternative embodiment may be to accelerate beyond a threshold in a roughly downward direction a deceleration beyond a threshold deceleration a stop of motion in the downward direction acceleration in the return or upward direction then deceleration for a shorter period than the downward motion followed by a pause for a predetermined amount of time. The level of accuracy required to execute the motion gesture will increase the certainty that a movement is intended as a motion gesture. However greater requirement of accuracy will make the motion gesture more difficult to execute which may be less desirable in a scenario where a user requires quick and immediate access to some of the system resources. The balance between intention to activate and avoidance of inadvertent access may be customized via sensitivity settings.

The bounce motion gesture may also begin with an initial upward motion before the first downward motion is executed. Consequently the final pause may occur at approximately the viewing level of the user. The initial upward motion may be an optional part of the required gesture movements or may be ignored until the first downward motion is detected in the motion gesture. In other words the laptop information handling system may be raised first before the bounce gesture triggers the limited ad hoc access system to access limited system resources. The system may have some motion or pause components as optional components that if executed with the remaining motion gesture sequence will still permit access to the limited system resources. One or more optional motion gesture sequence components allows for greater variations to the motion gesture that still permit access. If the additional movements are unanticipated motions or pauses the motion gesture will not be executed and this will still help eliminate inadvertent access.

There is no requirement that all sensor types be present. For example a sensor module may only need a motion detector and a reference sensor as described above to detect acceleration velocity and direction of the laptop information handling system. For example either an accelerometer or a gyroscope and one reference sensor such as a geomagnetic sensor may be associated with the laptop information handling system B.

The example bounce embodiment may be designed to be simple to execute by the user. Thus the orientation of the information handling system the direction of movement and the start and stop locations may vary to a reasonable degree to allow for variability in the motion gesture made by the user from time to time. For example the laptop information handling system B has a display screen B with integrated touchpad not shown in housing B and keyboard B in housing B in the disclosed embodiment. The information handling system B may be tilted so that it is not in strictly in any particular planar orientation and the motion gesture may still activate the limited ad hoc access system.

The motion gesture back and forth acceleration and deceleration directions may also only be roughly in a planar direction. For example to account for some variation due to wrist pivot a tilt or curve in the back and forth direction may be accommodated. In yet another variation on the embodiments disclosed the starting point and the finishing point for the shake motion gesture may only be somewhat near one another or the start and finish locations of the shake motion gesture may not be relevant at all as long as the back acceleration deceleration motion is followed shortly forward acceleration deceleration motion. It is also a contemplated embodiment where one or either of the back motion and forward motion is to be detected first which will still trigger the motion gesture.

In an example embodiment the sequence of actions for a shake may be to accelerate in a roughly backward e.g. with a wrist ulnar deviation direction decelerate stop accelerate forward e.g. with a wrist radial deviation in the roughly reverse direction then decelerate to a stop and pause for a predetermined amount of time. As stated the forward motion first followed by the backward motion may be an option variation as well. Alternatively in a 1.5 times shake the backward acceleration and deceleration must be repeated before a stop and pause. In yet another series of embodiments the backward acceleration and deceleration and forward acceleration and deceleration must be repeated multiple times before a stop and pause for additional shake cycles as desired. As with additional shake cycle embodiments additional shake cycles will have an advantage of being more certain motion gestures intended to activate the limited ad hoc access system. This avoids potentially inadvertent movements activating access to limited system resources.

In yet another variation on the embodiments disclosed the starting point and the finishing point for the shake motion gesture may not be near one another. In another embodiment the start and finish locations of the shake gesture may not be relevant at all as long as the backward acceleration deceleration motion is followed shortly by an forward acceleration deceleration motion is detected. For example the shake may proceed back in a forward direction a shorter distance than the backward motion followed by a pause of predetermined duration. The sequence of actions for a shake in this alternative embodiment may be to accelerate beyond a threshold in a roughly backward direction a deceleration beyond a threshold deceleration a stop of motion in the backward direction acceleration then deceleration in the return or forward direction for a shorter period than the backward motion followed by a pause for a predetermined amount of time. As with all of the motion gestures the level of accuracy required to execute the shake motion gesture will increase the certainty that a movement is intended as a motion gesture. However greater requirement of accuracy will make the shake motion gesture more difficult to execute which may be less desirable in a scenario where a user requires quick and immediate access to some of the system resources. The balance between intention to activate and avoidance of inadvertent access may be customized via sensitivity settings.

The shake motion gesture may also begin with an optional initial motion before the first forward or backward motion is executed. For example a optional upward or downward motion may be detected as the information handling system is brought into position to execute a motion gesture. The initial upward motion or downward motion may be an optional part of the required gesture movements or may be ignored until the first downward motion is detected in the motion gesture. The motion gesture may have some optional motion or pause components that if executed with the remaining motion gesture sequence will still permit access to the limited system resources. One or more optional motion gesture sequence components allows for greater variations to the motion gesture while still permitting access. If the additional movements are unanticipated motions or pauses the motion gesture will not be executed if they are not part of the optional motion gesture components and this will still help eliminate inadvertent access.

There is no requirement that all sensor types be present. For example a sensor module may only need a motion detector and a reference sensor as described above to detect acceleration velocity and direction of the laptop information handling system. For example either an accelerometer or a gyroscope and one reference sensor such as a geomagnetic sensor may be associated with the tablet information handling system C.

The example shake embodiment may be designed to be simple to execute by the user. Thus the orientation of the information handling system the direction of movement and the start and stop locations may vary to a reasonable degree to allow for variability in the motion gesture made by the user from time to time. For example the tablet information handling system C has a display screen C in housing C in the disclosed embodiment. The information handling system C may be tilted so that it is not in strictly in any particular planar orientation and the shake motion gesture may still activate the limited ad hoc access system.

The twist motion gesture directions may also only be roughly along an axis of rotation. For example to account for some variation due to wrist pivot a tilt or curve in the twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion direction may be accommodated. In yet another variation on the embodiments disclosed the starting point and the finishing point for the twist motion gesture may only be somewhat in the same orientation or the start and finish orientation of the twist motion gesture may not be relevant at all as long as the twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion occurs. It is also a contemplated embodiment where one or either of the twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion is to be detected. In a multiple twist motion gesture one or either the twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion may be detected first to trigger the motion gesture.

In an example embodiment the sequence of actions for a twist may be to accelerate then decelerate in a roughly twist clockwise e.g. a right wrist supination motion direction along an axis of rotation decelerate stop and pause for a predetermined amount of time. As stated the twist clockwise followed by the twist counter clockwise motion may be an option variation as well. In that case the twist clockwise motion is followed by acceleration twist counter clockwise e.g. a right wrist pronation motion in the roughly reverse direction then decelerate to a stop and pause for a predetermined amount of time. Alternatively in yet another series of embodiments the twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise acceleration and deceleration must be repeated multiple times before a stop and pause for additional twist cycles as desired. As with additional shake and bounce cycle embodiments additional twist cycles will have an advantage of being more certain motion gestures intended to activate the limited ad hoc access system. This avoids potentially inadvertent movements activating access to limited system resources. As with all of the motion gestures the level of accuracy required to execute the twist motion gesture will increase the certainty that a movement is intended as a motion gesture. However greater requirement of accuracy will make the twist motion gesture more difficult to execute. The balance between intention to activate and avoidance of inadvertent access may be customized via sensitivity settings.

The twist motion gesture may also begin with an optional initial motion before the first twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion is executed. For example an optional upward or downward motion may be detected as the information handling system is brought into position to execute the twist motion gesture. The initial upward motion or downward motion may be an optional part of the required gesture movements or may be ignored until the first twist clockwise or twist counter clockwise motion is detected in the motion gesture. The motion gesture may have some optional motion or pause components that if executed with the remaining motion gesture sequence will still permit access to the limited system resources. One or more optional motion gesture sequence components allows for greater variations to the motion gesture while still limiting access from inadvertent movements.

The example shake embodiment may be designed to be simple to execute by the user. Thus the orientation of the information handling system the direction of movement and the start and stop locations may vary to a reasonable degree to allow for variability in the motion gesture made by the user from time to time. For example the tablet information handling system D has a display screen D in housing D in the disclosed embodiment. The information handling system D may be tilted so that it is not in strictly in any particular planar orientation and the shake motion gesture may still activate the limited ad hoc access system.

The process begins at where the orientation and motion sensors of the information handling system detect movement. The information handling system wakes from a dormant sleep state. At the boot kernel invokes a limited ad hoc access system. The limited ad hoc access system receives sensor node motion and orientation data at decision diamond . At decision diamond the method determines whether the sequence of movements and pauses equals a predetermined motion gesture. Example motion gestures are discussed above. If the sequence of movements and pauses is not a motion gesture the flow ends. If the sequence of movements and pauses is determined to be a predetermined motion gesture the flow proceeds to .

Proceeding to the limited ad hoc access system accesses context data from a context engine. The context engine determines calendar GPS location and usage context data. With the context from the calendar and location as well as software usage information the flow proceeds to .

Based on the context engine the limited ad hoc access system selects a subset of limited hardware and software applications. The limited ad hoc access system may start a limited operating system to enable use of the selected hardware and software applications. The flow proceeds to create a sequestered storage file for use with the limited operating system or any selected limited hardware or software resources. The sequestered storage file or files is used to interact with and store any files created during the use of the selected limited system resources. At the system grants access to the selected limited system hardware and software resources to the user.

The flow proceeds to decision diamond to determine whether the limited ad hoc access due to the motion gesture has expired. In the example embodiment the limited ad hoc access to the sequestered resources is subject to a time limit. If the time limit has not been reached the flow reverts back to to continue to grant soft login access to the limited system resources.

If the time limit has been reached the flow proceeds to where a hard login request screen is presented on the information handling system. The hard login requires security verification such as those known in the art. For example a password login or biometric verification may be required. Proceeding to upon hard login verification of credentials of a user the entire suite of system resources is made available to the user.

The process begins at where the orientation and motion sensors of the information handling system detect movement. The information handling system wakes from a dormant sleep state. At the boot kernel invokes a limited ad hoc access system. The limited ad hoc access system receives sensor node motion and orientation data at decision diamond . At decision diamond the method determines whether the sequence of movements and pauses equals a predetermined motion gesture as described with . If the sequence of movements and pauses is not a motion gesture the flow ends. If the sequence of movements and pauses is determined to be a predetermined motion gesture the flow proceeds to .

At the limited ad hoc access system accesses context data from a context engine. The context engine determines calendar GPS location and usage context data. In the embodiment shown in the limited ad hoc access system discerns the date and may determine time of day. Also determined is location at . With the context the flow proceeds to .

Based on the date time and location context the limited ad hoc access system determines whether the location is a work location at decision diamond . A work location may be determined based on a designation of the location as a location for work such as a corporate campus office building location or a portion of a college campus. If the location is determined to be a work location the flow proceeds to . If the location is not determined to be a work location then the flow proceeds to decision diamond where the limited ad hoc access system determines whether the date is a weekday or workday. The limited ad hoc system may also determine if the time of day falls within designated business hours. If it is a weekday or workday and during business hours the flow proceeds to .

At the limited ad hoc access system selects a subset of limited hardware and software applications designated as work related software or hardware applications and systems. The limited ad hoc access system starts a limited operating system that is sequestered from the full resources of the information handling system to enable use of the work related hardware and software applications.

If it is neither a work location nor a designated weekday or workday or designated business hours the flow proceeds to . At the limited ad hoc access system selects a subset of limited hardware and software applications designated as recreation related software or hardware applications and systems. The limited ad hoc access system starts a limited operating system that is sequestered from the full resources of the information handling system to enable use of the recreational related hardware and software applications. For the current embodiment the limited ad hoc access system selects between two subsets of limited resources depending on context. However it is contemplated that the limited ad hoc access system may select from any number of subsets of limited system resources to be made available based on context and may not be limited to work related applications versus recreational related applications. These designations of subsets of limited system resources are used for illustrative purposes in the current embodiment. Upon starting the recreational related software or hardware applications or systems the flow proceeds to .

Whether from or the flow proceeds to where the limited ad hoc access system grants soft login access to the selected set of limited system resources. Proceeding to the limited ad hoc access system creates a sequestered storage file for use with the limited operating system and any of the selected limited hardware or software resources. The sequestered storage file or files are used to interact with and store any files created during the use of the selected limited system resources.

At decision diamond the system determines whether the selected set of limited system resources were used to store a file. If not after the time or other limitation on the soft login granted access has expired the information handling system reverts to a typical security verification system and presents a hard login screen or other security measure to the user at . Upon receiving correct security credentials full access is granted to system resources at and then the flow ends.

If a file is stored by use of the selected set of limited system resources then the flow proceeds to . At the limited ad hoc access system provides an indication to the user of the selected subset of limited system resources that a file has been saved to the sequestered storage file. In one embodiment the saved file may be only accessible after a hard login is entered to permit full access to system resources. Thus a notification such as a sound indication an LED or an icon designation may be used to indicate that the file was successfully saved while using the limited system resources.

The flow proceeds to where the information handling system presents a normal security access procedure to the user upon expiration of the limited ad hoc access granted via soft login from a motion gesture. At upon receiving correct security credentials full access is granted to system resources. At the limited ad hoc access system presents a softkey link or other indication highlighting that a file was saved in the sequestered storage file during limited system access. At this point the flow ends.

In one alternative embodiment the softkey may be a link to access the sequestered file or files after the hard login. In another alternative embodiment the temporarily stored file from the ad hoc access may be constrained to appear on the system desktop after hard login for easy and quick access. The file may be a highlighted desktop icon.

In one specific embodiment the temporarily saved file must be accessed within a limited amount of time such as 10 minutes after hard login. If the temporarily saved file is not accessed within 10 minutes the limited ad hoc access system may purge the file. This may be done on an assumption that the file was saved in error or is simply not necessary.

It is understood that the flow steps of the method embodiment described in may be performed in any order. For example shows a flow diagram illustrating another embodiment variation implementing a limited ad hoc access system for access to limited system resources for an information handling system.

The process begins at where the orientation and motion sensors of the information handling system detect movement. The information handling system wakes from a dormant sleep state. At the boot kernel invokes a limited ad hoc access system. The limited ad hoc access system receives sensor node motion and orientation data at decision diamond . At decision diamond the method determines whether the sequence of movements and pauses equals a predetermined motion gesture as described above. If the sequence of movements and pauses is not a motion gesture the flow ends. If the sequence of movements and pauses is determined to be a predetermined motion gesture the flow proceeds to .

At the limited ad hoc access system accesses context data from a context engine. The context engine determines calendar GPS location and usage context data. In the embodiment shown in the limited ad hoc access system discerns the date and may determine time of day. Also determined is location of the mobile information handling system at . With the context the flow proceeds to .

Based on the date time and location context the limited ad hoc access system determines whether the location is a recreational location at decision diamond . A recreational location may be determined based on a designation of the location as a location for recreation such as a home location or a place where recreational applications are frequently used. If the location is determined to be a recreation location the flow proceeds to . If the location is not determined to be a recreational location then the flow proceeds to decision diamond where the limited ad hoc access system determines whether the date is a weekend vacation day or a holiday. The limited ad hoc system may also determine if the time of day falls outside of designated business hours. If it is a weekend vacation day or holiday and outside of business hours the flow proceeds to .

At the limited ad hoc access system selects a subset of limited hardware and software applications designated as recreation related software or hardware applications and systems. The limited ad hoc access system starts a limited operating system that is sequestered from the full resources of the information handling system to enable use of the recreation related hardware and software applications.

If it is neither a recreation location nor a designated weekend or holiday or outside designated business hours the flow proceeds to . At the limited ad hoc access system selects an alternative subset of limited hardware and software applications. For example the alternative subset may be designated as work related software or hardware applications and systems. The limited ad hoc access system starts a limited operating system that is sequestered from the full resources of the information handling system to enable use of the alternative subset of hardware and software applications.

For the current embodiment the limited ad hoc access system selects between two subsets of limited resources depending on context. However it is contemplated that the limited ad hoc access system may select from any number of subsets of limited system resources to be made available based on context and may not be limited to work related applications versus recreational related applications. These designations of subsets of limited system resources are used for illustrative purposes in the current embodiment. Upon starting the selected subset of software or hardware applications or systems the flow proceeds to .

Whether from or the flow proceeds to where the limited ad hoc access system grants soft login access to the selected set of limited system resources. Proceeding to the limited ad hoc access system creates a sequestered storage file for use with the limited operating system and any of the selected limited hardware or software resources. The sequestered storage file or files are used to interact with and store any files created during the use of the selected limited system resources.

At decision diamond the system determines whether the selected set of limited system resources were used to store a file. If not after the time or other limitation on the soft login granted access has expired the information handling system reverts to a typical security verification system and presents a hard login screen or other security measure to the user at . Upon receiving correct security credentials full access is granted to system resources at and then the flow ends.

If a file is stored by use of the selected set of limited system resources then the flow proceeds to . At the limited ad hoc access system provides an indication to the user of the selected subset of limited system resources that a file has been saved to the sequestered storage file. In one embodiment the saved file may be only accessible after a hard login is entered to permit full access to system resources. Thus a notification such as a sound indication an LED or an icon designation may be used to indicate that the file was successfully saved while using the limited system resources.

The flow proceeds to where the information handling system presents a normal security access procedure to the user upon expiration of the limited ad hoc access granted via soft login from a motion gesture. At upon receiving correct security credentials full access is granted to system resources. At the limited ad hoc access system presents a softkey link or other indication highlighting that a file was saved in the sequestered storage file during limited system access. In an embodiment the softkey may be a link to access the sequestered file or files after the hard login. At this point the flow ends.

A set of instructions for executing the methods steps described in the above embodiments on a processor may be stored and accessed from a computer readable medium. The main memory unit and disk drive unit as shown in may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions such as software can be embedded. The disk drive unit also contains space for data storage. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within main memory the static memory or disk drive unit and or within the processor chipset s during execution by the system . The main memory and the processor chipset also may include computer readable media. The network interface device can provide connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN wireless network or other network.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium of main memory and static memory or disk drive unit of that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network interface device can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to store information received via carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. Furthermore a computer readable medium can store information received from distributed network resources such as from a cloud based environment. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures.

