---

title: Trusted display and transmission of digital ticket documentation
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to methods and systems for transmitting and displaying digital ticket documentation. A mobile communication device may comprise one or more keys that are specific for the device, wherein the keys are stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device. In some embodiments, the keys may be associated with a specific ticket provider. The keys may be used to processes one or more datasets received from a ticket provider, wherein processing the dataset(s) may generate a digital ticket. The ticket may be generated and stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile device. The mobile device may be operable to present the ticket via the user interface of the mobile device and/or a near field communication transceiver of the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118655&OS=09118655&RS=09118655
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09118655
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140124
---
Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example media files electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information. Confidential information may include multimedia content which may be communicated and stored on various devices. Confidential information may also include ticket rights and or digital ticket documentation which may be stored on and present by a mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method for transferring ticket documentation to a mobile communication device comprising a trusted security zone is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a key to the mobile communication device that is specific for the device wherein the key is stored in the trusted security zone receiving a first dataset to the mobile communication device from a first ticket provider processing the first dataset in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key to generate a first ticket storing the ticket in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device and presenting the ticket using the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method for transferring ticket documentation to a mobile communication device comprising a trusted security zone is disclosed. The method comprises receiving one or more keys to the mobile communication device that are specific for the mobile communication device wherein the keys are stored in the trusted security zone and wherein each key is associated with a specific ticket provider receiving a dataset to the mobile communication device from a first ticket provider processing the dataset in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key associated with the first ticket provider to generate a ticket storing the ticket in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device and presenting the ticket using the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The device comprises a processor wherein a portion of the processor is controlled by a trusted security zone a memory wherein a portion of the memory is controlled by a trusted security zone and a trust zone application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor receives a key to the mobile communication device that is specific for the mobile communication device wherein the key is stored in the trusted security zone receives a dataset to the mobile communication device from a first ticket provider processes the dataset in the trusted security zone of the device using the key to generate a first ticket stores the ticket in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device and presents the ticket using the mobile communication device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for transferring ticket documentation to a mobile communication device comprising a trusted security zone. The ticket documentation may comprise an electronic ticket for example ticket information in a digital format suitable for electronic and or radio transmission storing in a digital memory and or presenting on a display such as a computer screen or a display of a mobile communication device. The ticket documentation may be related to a ticket for boarding an airplane for entering a sports event for entering a concert event for entering a movie theater or other activity.

The mobile device may comprise a trust zone application stored and executed in the trusted security zone where the application may be operable to receive and process digital ticketing documentation. In some cases the mobile device may comprise one or more keys stored in the trusted security zone where the keys may be specific for the device. Additionally in some cases the keys may be associated with a specific ticket provider. Ticket providers may communicate with the mobile device to transfer ticketing documentation. In some cases the ticketing documentation may be transferred in an encrypted dataset from the ticket provider s to the mobile device. The encrypted dataset may be processed by the trust zone application to generate a digital ticket which may be stored in the trusted security zone. In some cases the encrypted dataset may be processed using the key s on the mobile device.

The encrypted dataset may be encrypted by the ticket provider such that the digital ticket may only be generated by a secure application on the mobile device if the correct key is used when the dataset is processed. In some cases the ticket provider may encrypt the dataset using the key for the specific mobile device that is intended to receive the dataset. For example a user may purchase a ticket from the ticket provider and provide information concerning the user s device. The ticket provider may encrypt the digital ticket using a key that is associated with the user s device. Then the ticket provider may communicate the encrypted dataset to the mobile device. The encrypted dataset may be processed by an application in the trusted security zone of the mobile device using the key which may be associated with the specific ticket provider. The processing of the dataset with the correct key may generate a ticket which may then be stored in the trusted security zone and later presented by the mobile device. In some cases the ticket may be presented at a terminal to provide entrance for the user such as for an airline bus train concert or other entertainment event. The ticket may comprise a Quick Response Code QR code or other image or barcode which may be scanned to allow entrance for the user. In some cases after the ticket is generated and stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile device the ticket may be transferred from one mobile device to another mobile device also comprising a trusted security zone.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the communication system comprises a mobile device comprising a trusted security zone a permissive sector a cellular radio transceiver and a user interface . In an embodiment the trusted security zone comprises one or more secure applications . The permissive sector may comprise one or more device applications . The mobile device may engage in a variety of communication exchanges. The mobile device may comprise a variety of devices such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer and other electronic devices having a cellular radio transceiver. Some embodiments of the disclosure may also comprise stationary devices such as a home entertainment system or other similar devices operable to present multimedia content. Such stationary devices may be coupled to a network by either a wired communication link or a wireless communication link.

As described above the trusted security zone may be provided by a physically separate processor or by a virtual processor. The one or more secure applications may be any of a variety of applications that process and or transmit confidential information. The confidential information may comprise sensitive business documents such as electronic mail marketing literature business plans client lists addresses employee data intellectual property documents and the like. The confidential information may comprise personal medical records or medical data that are subject to privacy requirements enforced by government regulatory bodies or commercial standards. The confidential information may comprise financial information such as account numbers authentication identities account balance information and the like. Additionally the confidential information may comprise ticketing documentation for example for an airline rental company hotel concert movie and the like.

When processing and or transmitting the confidential information the secure application executes at least partially in the trusted security zone . It is a characteristic or feature of the trusted security zone as described more fully above that when a secure application executes in the trusted security zone untrusted applications such as device applications are prevented from executing and or accessing trusted memory partitions and or accessing the display communication interfaces or input devices of the mobile device thereby reducing the opportunity for malware that may have infiltrated the mobile device to corrupt or to monitor the confidential information.

In an embodiment the system comprises a network . The network may be a private network a public network or a combination thereof. The network may promote voice communications and data communications. Portions of the network may provide an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The mobile device may couple to the network by a variety of communication paths. The mobile device may communicate with a base transceiver station BTS via a wireless link according to any of a variety of wireless communications protocols including but not limited to code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX global system for mobile communications GSM or other wireless communication protocol. The wireless link between the mobile device and the base transceiver station may couple the mobile device to the network .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be provided in a secure area of a processor and or memory chip shared with the permissive sector or in a separate processor and or memory chip. In some embodiments the secure area may be represented by a trust zone processor and a trust zone memory . The trusted security zone may be provided as what may be conceptualized as invisible space. In an embodiment at least some of the memory addresses occupied by the trusted security zone may be inaccessible to device applications executing out of permissive sector . This demarcation of accessible memory addresses versus inaccessible memory addresses may be provided by the operating system of the mobile device . In an embodiment the trusted security zone may encapsulate a trusted execution environment TEE for example conforming at least partially to the Global Platform 2.0 or later revision trusted execution environment standard. It is understood however that the trusted security zone is contemplated to provide further functionality than that envisioned by the trusted execution environment standards.

In an embodiment a trust exchange service is provided in the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service may be conceptualized as bridging between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service promotes secure interactions between the applications executing in the permissive sector and applications executing in the trusted security zone . The security may be provided using one or more techniques. For example the trust exchange service may pause a plurality of execution threads when initiating an interaction with the trusted security zone for example while handling a request for service from a secure application . This feature may reduce the opportunity that other threads may sniff or otherwise seek to intrude on the operation. For example the trust exchange service may impose a criteria that all communication between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone be conducted using data that is transformed according to protocols of the trusted security zone for example using encryption and or using hashing. The trust exchange service may also hide address space in the trusted security zone and or make the address space inaccessible to the permissive sector without the mediation of the trust exchange service .

The device applications executed in the permissive sector may be any of a variety of applications. One of the device applications may be a telephone application that receives dialed digits and attempts to originate a voice call for example a voice over IP VoIP call to a called telephone. One of the device applications may be a web browser application that requests content from the network for example by sending out a hypertext transport protocol HTTP message embedding a universal reference locator URL . One of the device applications may be a media player that requests streaming media from the network . Many of the device applications may depend upon communication service provided by an IMS network to deliver their functionality to an end user of the mobile device . One of the device applications may comprise a mobile transaction interface where a user may complete a purchase using the application and secure information such as credit card information may be communicated through the application.

The user interface of the mobile device may in some embodiments comprise a display an input system a speaker system and or a microphone. In some embodiments the display may comprise a screen and the input system may comprise a keypad and or a touch screen for example. The speaker system may communicate audio such as media messages or phone call audio to a user of the mobile device . The microphone may receive voice and or audio from a user and or communicate audio to a user. In an embodiment a user may utilize the user interface to communicate with the mobile device for example to initiate the execution of a device application and or a secure application . Additionally a user may receive communication from the mobile device via the user interface such as phone calls text messages messages emails contact information caller identification call history internet access etc. A user may additionally employ the user interface for viewing and or listening to media such as music movies shows videos photos games etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device may be operable to store and present digital ticketing documentation. Ticketing documentation or tickets may comprise airline tickets bus tickets train tickets rental information hotel information concert tickets movie tickets and the like. In some embodiments ticketing documentation may also comprise coupons discounts rewards etc. which may be used during a purchase. In some embodiments the ticketing documentation may comprise an image bar code QR code or something similar which may be presented by the display of the user interface . The image may then be recognized or scanned at a POS terminal. In other embodiments the ticketing documentation may comprise an electronic file that may be presented via a near field communication NFC transceiver of the mobile device wherein the mobile device may communicate with a point of sale terminal POS terminal via NFC.

In some embodiments the ticketing documentation may be downloaded to the mobile device from one or more ticketing providers via a connection with the mobile device over the network . In some embodiments the connection between the mobile device and the ticket provider may be facilitated by a carrier trusted service manager or TSM . The ticketing documentation may be an information package that may be processed by a trusted application on the mobile device to generate a ticket.

In some embodiments the trusted security zone of the mobile device may comprise one or more keys associated with the mobile device wherein the key s may be used to verify the identity of the mobile device or the user of the mobile device . Additionally the key s may be known by the ticketing provider s . For example if a purchase or request is made by a user the key associated with that user or the device of that user may be associated with the purchase or request by the ticket provider . Then when the purchase or request is received by the mobile device the key on the mobile device may verify that the purchase or request has been sent to the correct mobile device . In some embodiments a user may create an account with a ticket provider wherein identification information concerning the user and one or more devices belonging to the user may be communicated to the ticket provider . In some embodiments this identification information may comprise the key s associated with the user s device s .

In some embodiments the mobile device may communicate with the ticket provider s and exchange the key information. In some embodiments the key may be stored on the device and communicated from the device to the ticket provider . For example the key may be stored on the mobile device by the OEM at assembly or during activation of the mobile device . In other embodiments the key may be communicated from the ticket provider to the mobile device for example when an account is created by the user of the mobile device . In yet another embodiment the key may be provided by the carrier TSM that provides service the device wherein the carrier TSM may communicate the key to both the device and the ticket provider . In some embodiments the key s may be communicated between the mobile device and the ticket provider via a secure end to end connection.

In some embodiments the mobile device may comprise one key that is specific for the device and is known by all the ticket providers that communicate with the device . In another embodiment the mobile device may comprise multiple keys each specific for the device wherein each key may be associated with a different ticket provider .

In some embodiments the ticketing documentation may be communicated to the mobile device in the form of an encrypted dataset . The dataset may be stored and processed by the trusted security zone of the mobile device . In some embodiments the dataset may be encrypted using the key associated with the device it is intended for. In other words the ticket provider may use the key to encrypt the dataset such that if the dataset is processed by a device that does not have the correct key the ticketing documentation within the dataset may not be accessed. The dataset may be processed by one of the secure applications using the key wherein a ticket may be generated by processing the dataset with the correct key . After the process of generating the tickets s is completed the ticket s may be stored the in trust zone memory . The secure application may be operable to process multiple datasets using multiple keys to generate and store multiple tickets .

One or more secure applications may be operable to present the tickets when requested by the user of the mobile device . For example the application may be operated by a user wherein the user may request for a ticket to be presented on the display of the mobile device . In another example a user may request that the ticket be made accessible via NFC wherein the secure application may access the NFC transceiver of the mobile device . As described above when a secure application is presenting the ticket external access to the display or NFC may be blocked by the trusted security zone .

In some embodiments a ticket may comprise a single use capability such as an airline ticket or concert ticket for example. In other embodiments a ticket may comprise multiple uses such as a coupon or a ticket comprising airline rental and hotel information for example. In some embodiments after a ticket has been used either once or multiple times it may be deleted or removed from the trust zone memory . In another embodiment a ticket may have an expiration date and may be deleted or removed from the memory at that point.

In some embodiments after a ticket has been generated from the dataset it may be possible to transfer the ticket to the trusted security zone of another device. For example a first user may purchase the ticket download the dataset and generate the ticket but may wish to transfer the ticket to another user. In some embodiments the ticket may be transferred over a secure connection between the trusted security zones of the devices.

Turning now to a method for transferring ticket documentation to a mobile communication device comprising a trusted security zone is described. At block a key may be received by the mobile communication device that is specific for the device wherein the key is stored in the trusted security zone. The key may be received during the initial processing or activation of the device or when an account is created with a ticket provider. At block a first dataset may be received by the mobile communication device from a first ticket provider. At block the first dataset may be processed in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key to generate a first ticket. At block the ticket may be stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device. At block the ticket may be presented using the mobile communication device. At block a second key may be received by the mobile device that is specific for the device wherein the second key may be stored in the trusted security zone. The second key may be received during the initial processing or activation of the device or when an account is created with a ticket provider. At block the method may be repeated for a second dataset. This may comprise receiving a second dataset to the mobile communication device from a second ticket provider processing the second dataset in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key to generate a second ticket storing the ticket in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device and presenting the ticket using the mobile communication device.

In some embodiments processing and presenting may be completed by an application executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the key may be received over a trusted end to end communication link between the ticket provider and the mobile communication device. For further details on trusted end to end communication links see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 titled End to End Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments presenting the ticket may comprise accessing the user interface of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments presenting the ticket may comprise accessing a near field communication transceiver of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the same key may be used to process both datasets. In some embodiments the second key may be used to generate the second ticket. In some embodiments the second key may be associated with the second ticket provider.

Turning now to a method for transferring ticket documentation to a mobile communication device comprising a trusted security zone is described. At block one or more keys may be received by the mobile communication device that are specific for the mobile communication device wherein the keys are stored in the trusted security zone and wherein each key is associated with a specific ticket provider. At block a dataset may be received by the mobile communication device from a first ticket provider. At block the dataset may be processed in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key associated with the first ticket provider to generate a ticket. At block the ticket may be stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device. At block the ticket may be presented using the mobile communication device. At block the method may be repeated for a second dataset using the key associated with a second ticket provider. This step may comprise receiving a dataset to the mobile communication device from a second ticket provider processing the dataset in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device using the key associated with the second ticket provider to generate a ticket storing the ticket in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device and presenting the ticket using the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the steps of the method may be completed by an application executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the keys may be received over a trusted end to end communication link between the ticket provider and the mobile communication device.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

