---

title: Voltage mode driver circuit for N-phase systems
abstract: System, methods and apparatus are described that facilitate transmission of data, particularly between two devices within electronic equipment. Transmission lines are selectively terminated in an N-phase polarity encoded transmitter when the transmission lines would otherwise be undriven. Data is mapped to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires. The sequence of symbols is encoded in three signals. Each of the three terminals may be driven such that transistors are activated to couple a terminal to first and second voltage levels through a pair of impedances when the terminal would otherwise be undriven. The terminal is then pulled toward an intermediate voltage level while the terminal presents a desired impedance level to a transmission line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172426&OS=09172426&RS=09172426
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09172426
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 774 425 filed in the U.S. Patent Office on Mar. 7 2013 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to high speed data communications and more particularly to asymmetric communications between components of electronic devices and in particular to multi phase encoding and decoding.

High speed interfaces are frequently used between circuits and components of mobile wireless devices and other complex apparatus. For example certain devices may include processing communications storage and or display devices that interact with one another through communications links. Some of these devices including synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM may be capable of providing or consuming data and control information at processor clock rates. Other devices such as display controllers may require variable amounts of data at relatively low video refresh rates.

High speed interfaces are often limited by clock skew and are subject to interference. High frequency signals are often transmitted using differential interfaces to provide common mode rejection for critical signals. In devices such as memory devices which transmit and receive large amounts of data over wide data and control buses interfaces maybe expensive and may consume significant power and real estate on a circuit board.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems methods and apparatus for communicating between two devices that may be collocated in an electronic apparatus and communicatively coupled through one or more data links.

In an aspect of the disclosure a method for data transfer includes mapping data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires encoding the sequence of symbols in three signals and driving each of three terminals in accordance with one of the three signals. Each of the three signals may be in one of three phases for each symbol to be transmitted. The three signals are in different phases from one another during transmission of each symbol. Driving each of the three terminals may include turning on a first transistor and turning off a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase such that the terminal is driven towards a first voltage level when the first transistor is turned on. Driving each of the three terminals may include turning on the second transistor and turning off the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase such that the terminal is driven towards a second voltage level when the second transistor is turned on. Driving each of the three terminals may include turning off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase.

In an aspect of the disclosure the terminal drifts towards a third voltage level when both the first transistor and the second transistor is turned off The third voltage level may lie within a voltage range bounded by the first voltage level and the second voltage level.

In an aspect of the disclosure driving each of the three terminals includes turning on a third transistor and turning on a fourth transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase. The terminal is pulled towards a third voltage level when the third transistor is turned on and the fourth transistor is turned on. The third voltage level lies within a voltage range bounded by the first voltage level and the second voltage level. The third transistor and the fourth transistor may be turned off when the corresponding one of the three signals is in the first phase or in the second phase. Turning on the third transistor causes the corresponding terminal to be coupled to the first voltage through a first impedance and turning on the fourth transistor causes the corresponding terminal to be coupled to the second voltage through a second impedance. The first impedance and the second impedance may be selected to provide a desired impedance at the terminal.

In an aspect of the disclosure information is encoded in phase rotation at each transition between symbols in the sequence of symbols. For each transmitted symbol two signals of the three signals are in the first phase or the second phase and information may be encoded in the relative polarity of these two signals.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus includes means for mapping data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires means for encoding the sequence of symbols in three signals and means for driving each of three terminals in accordance with a corresponding one of the three signals. Each of the three signals is in one of three phases for each symbol to be transmitted. The three signals are in different phases from one another during transmission of each symbol. The means for driving the each of the three terminals may be configured to turn on a first transistor and turn off a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase such that the corresponding terminal is driven towards a first voltage level when the first transistor is turned on turn on the second transistor and turn off the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase such that the corresponding terminal is driven towards a second voltage level when the second transistor is turned on and turn off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase.

In an aspect of the disclosure a transmitter includes a processing circuit configured to map data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires and encode the sequence of symbols in three signals and a line driver configured to drive one of three terminals in accordance with one of the three signals. Each of the three signals is in one of three phases for each transmitted symbol. The signals are in different phases from one another during transmission of each symbol. Driving one of the three terminals during each symbol interval may include one of turning on a first transistor and turning off a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase such that the corresponding terminal is driven towards a first voltage level when the first transistor is turned on turning on the second transistor and turning off the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase such that the corresponding terminal is driven towards a second voltage level when the second transistor is turned on and turning off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase.

In an aspect of the disclosure a processor readable storage medium stores or maintains one or more instructions. When executed by at least one processing circuit the instructions may cause the at least one processing circuit to map data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires encode the sequence of symbols in three signals and drive each of three terminals in accordance with one of the three signals. Each of the three signals may be in one of three phases for each symbol to be transmitted. The signals may be in different phases from one another during transmission of each symbol. For each terminal the terminal may be driven by turning on a first transistor and turning off a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase such that the terminal is driven towards a first voltage level when the first transistor is turned on turning on the second transistor and turning off the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase such that the terminal is driven towards a second voltage level when the second transistor is turned on and turning off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computing device and or distributed between two or more computing devices. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Certain disclosed examples relate to systems and apparatus that employ multi phase data encoding and decoding methods involving a plurality of conductors i.e. M conductors or wires . The M conductors typically include three or more conductors and each conductor may be referred to as a wire although the M conductors may include conductive traces on a circuit board or within a conductive layer of a semiconductor integrated circuit IC device. The M conductors may be divided into a plurality of transmission groups each group encoding a portion of a block of data to be transmitted. An N phase encoding scheme is defined in which bits of data are encoded in phase transitions and polarity changes on the M conductors. In one example an N phase encoding scheme for a 3 wire system may include three phase states and two polarities providing 6 states and 5 possible transitions from each state. Deterministic voltage and or current changes may be detected and decoded to extract data from the M conductors. Decoding does not rely on independent conductors or pairs of conductors and timing information can be derived directly from phase and or polarity transitions in the M conductors. N Phase polarity data transfer can be applied to any signaling interface such as electrical optical and radio frequency RF interfaces for example.

Certain aspects of the invention may be applicable to communications links deployed between electronic components which may include subcomponents of devices such as telephones mobile computing devices appliances automobile electronics avionics systems etc. Referring to for example an apparatus employing M wire N phase encoding may include a processing circuit that is configured to control operation of the apparatus . The processing circuit may access and execute software applications and control logic circuits and other devices within the apparatus . In one example the apparatus may include a wireless communication device that communicates through an RF communications transceiver with a radio access network RAN a core access network the Internet and or another network. The communications transceiver may be operably coupled to a processing circuit . The processing circuit may include one or more IC devices such as an application specific IC ASIC . The ASIC may include one or more processing devices logic circuits and so on. The processing circuit may include and or be coupled to processor readable storage that may maintain instructions and data the may be executed by processing circuit . The processing circuit may be controlled by one or more of an operating system and an application programming interface API layer that supports and enables execution of software modules residing in the storage of the wireless device. The storage may include read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory device or any memory device that can be used in processing systems and computing platforms. The processing circuit may include and or access a local database that can maintain operational parameters and other information used to configure and operate the apparatus . The local database may be implemented using one or more of a database module or server flash memory magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The processing circuit may also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna a display operator controls such as a button and a keypad among other components.

The communications link may include multiple channels and . One or more channel may be bidirectional and may operate in half duplex mode and or full duplex mode. One or more channels may be unidirectional. The communications link may be asymmetrical providing higher bandwidth in one direction. In one example described herein a first communications channel may be referred to as a forward link while a second communications channel may be referred to as a reverse link . The first IC device may be designated as a host master and or transmitter while the second IC device may be designated as a client slave and or receiver even if both IC devices and are configured to transmit and receive on the communications link . In one example the forward link may operate at a higher data rate when communicating data from a first IC device to a second IC device while the reverse link may operate at a lower data rate when communicating data from the second IC device to the first IC device .

The IC devices and may each include a processor or other processing and or computing circuit or device . In one example the first IC device may perform core functions of the apparatus including maintaining wireless communications through a wireless transceiver and an antenna while the second IC device may support a user interface that manages or operates a display controller and may control operations of a camera or video input device using a camera controller . Other features supported by one or more of the IC devices and may include a keyboard a voice recognition component and other input or output devices. The display controller may include circuits and software drivers that support a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD panel a touch screen display an indicator and so on. The storage media and may include transitory and or non transitory storage devices adapted to maintain instructions and data used by the respective processing circuits and and or other components of the IC devices and . Communication between each processing circuit and its corresponding storage media and and other modules and circuits may be facilitated by one or more buses and respectively.

The reverse link may be operated in the same manner as the forward link . The forward link and the reverse link may be capable of transmitting at comparable speeds or at different speeds where speed may be expressed as a data transfer rate and or a clocking rate. The forward and reverse data rates may be substantially the same or may differ by orders of magnitude depending on the application. In some applications a single bidirectional link may support communications between the first IC device and the second IC device . The forward link and or the reverse link may be configurable to operate in a bidirectional mode when for example the forward and reverse links and share the same physical connections and operate in a half duplex manner.

In certain examples the reverse link derives a clocking signal from the forward link for synchronization purposes for control purposes to facilitate power management and or for simplicity of design. The clocking signal may have a frequency that is obtained by dividing the frequency of a symbol clock used to transmit signals on the forward link . The symbol clock may be superimposed or otherwise encoded in symbols transmitted on the forward link . The use of a clocking signal that is a derivative of the symbol clock allows fast synchronization of transmitters and receivers transceivers and enables fast start and stop of data signals without the need for framing to enable training and synchronization.

In certain examples a single bidirectional link may support communications between first IC device and the second IC device . In some instances the first IC device and the second IC device provide encoding and decoding of data address and control signals transmitted between a processing device and memory devices such as dynamic random access memory DRAM .

In one example one or more of buses and or may provide access to double data rate DDR SDRAM using M wire N phase encoding technique. N phase polarity encoding devices and or can encode multiple bits per transition and multiple sets of wires can be used to transmit and receive data from the SDRAM control signals address signals and so on.

In another example the communications link includes a high speed digital interface such as a mobile display digital interface MDDI and one or more data links and may use N phase polarity encoding. Transceivers may encode and decode data transmitted on the communications link . The use of N phase polarity encoding provides for high speed data transfer and may consume half or less of the power of other interfaces because fewer drivers are active in N phase polarity encoded communications links . N phase polarity encoding devices and or can encode multiple bits per transition on the interface which may include a bus. In one example a combination of 3 phase and polarity encoding may be used to support a wide video graphics array WVGA 80 frames per second LCD driver IC without a frame buffer delivering pixel data at 810 Mbps for display refresh.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein characteristics of an M wire N phase polarity communications link may be dynamically modified to accommodate changing operational requirements and circumstances. For example the number of wires used to transmit an N phase signal may be increased to obtain a higher available bandwidth and or the number of wires used to transmit an N phase signal may be decreased to reduce power consumption by the IC devices and . The number of wires used to transmit an N phase signal in one direction may be adapted independently of the number of wires used to transmit an N phase signal in the other direction. Receiving circuits and transmitting circuits in the physical layer drivers e.g. N phase polarity encoding devices and may be configured using control information transmitted when the communications link is activated after hibernation or power on. The control information may be transmitted according to a predefined protocol whereby a minimum number of wires are activated to carry a control message specifying the configuration of the communications link for example. The control message may alternatively or additionally be transmitted with a shutdown command a wakeup command and or in a preamble preceding each transmission. In some examples the configuration of the communications link may be determined during a training and or synchronization sequence whereby the receiving physical layer drivers e.g. N phase polarity encoding devices or monitors the available wires or other conductors for transitions corresponding to an N phase signal in order to determine which wires conductors are active.

When N phase polarity encoding is used connectors such as conductors signal wires and on an M wire bus may be undriven driven positive or driven negative. An undriven signal wire or may be in a high impedance state. An undriven signal wire or may be driven to a voltage level that lies substantially halfway between the positive and negative voltage levels provided on driven signal wires. An undriven signal wire or may have no current flowing through it. In the example illustrated in each signal wire and may be in one of three states denoted as 1 1 and 0 using drivers . In one example drivers may include unit level current mode drivers. In another example drivers may drive opposite polarity voltages on two signals and while the third signal is at high impedance and or pulled to ground. For each transmitted symbol interval at least one signal is in the undriven 0 state while the number of signals driven positive 1 state is equal to the number of signals driven negative 1 state such that the sum of current flowing to the receiver is always zero. For each pair of consecutive symbol transmission intervals at least one signal wire or has a different state in the two symbol transmission intervals.

In the example depicted in 16 bit data is input to a mapper which maps the input data to 7 symbols for transmitting sequentially over the signal wires and . The 7 symbols may be serialized using parallel to serial converters for example. An M wire N phase encoder receives 7 symbols produced by the mapper one symbol at a time and computes the state of each signal wire and for each symbol interval. The encoder selects the states of the signal wires and based on the input symbol and the previous states of signal wires and

The use of M wire N phase encoding permits a number of bits to be encoded in a plurality of symbols where the bits per symbol is not an integer. In the simple example of a 3 wire system there are 3 available combinations of 2 wires that may be driven simultaneously and 2 possible combinations of polarity on the pair of simultaneously driven wires yielding 6 possible states. Since each transition occurs from a current state 5 of the 6 states are available at every transition. The state of at least one wire is required to change at each transition. With 5 states log 5 2.32 bits may be encoded per symbol. Accordingly a mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols because 7 symbols carrying 2.32 bits per symbol can encode 16.24 bits. In other words a combination of seven symbols that encodes five states has 5 78 125 permutations. Accordingly the 7 symbols may be used to encode the 2 65 536 permutations of 16 bits.

At any phase state in the illustrated three wire example exactly two of the conductors carry a signal which is effectively a differential signal for that phase state while the third conductor or is undriven. The phase state for each conductor may be determined by voltage difference between the conductor or and at least one other conductor and or or by the direction of current flow or lack of current flow in the conductor or . As shown in the state transition diagram three phase states S Sand S are defined. A signal may flow clockwise from phase state Sto phase state S phase state Sto phase state S and or phase state Sto phase state Sand the signal may flow counter clockwise from phase state Sto phase state S phase state Sto phase state S and or phase state Sto phase state S. For other values of N transitions between the N states may optionally be defined according to a corresponding state diagram to obtain circular rotation between state transitions.

In the example of a three wire three phase communications link clockwise rotations Sto S Sto S and or Sto S at a state transition may be used to encode a logic 1 while counter clockwise rotations Sto S Sto S and or Sto S at the state transition may be used to encode a logic 0. Accordingly a bit may be encoded at each transition by controlling whether the signal is rotating clockwise or counter clockwise. For example a logic 1 may be encoded when the three wires transition from phase state Sto phase state Sand a logic 0 may be encoded when the three wires transition from phase state Sto phase state S. In the simple three wire example depicted direction of rotation may be easily determined based on which of the three wires is undriven before and after the transition.

Information may also be encoded in the polarity of the driven conductors or direction of current flow between two conductors . Signals and illustrate voltage levels applied to conductors respectively at each phase state in a three wire three phase link. At any time a first conductor is coupled to a positive voltage V for example a second conductor is coupled to a negative voltage V for example while the third conductor may be open circuited or otherwise undriven. As such one polarity encoding state may be determined by the current flow between the first and second conductors or the voltage polarities of the first and second conductors . In some embodiments two bits of data may be encoded at each phase transition. A decoder may determine the direction of signal phase rotation to obtain the first bit and the second bit may be determined based on the polarity difference between two of the signals and . The decoder having determined direction of rotation can determine the current phase state and the polarity of the voltage applied between the two active connectors and or or the direction of current flow through the two active conductors and or

In the example of the three wire three phase link described herein one bit of data may be encoded in the rotation or phase change in the three wire three phase link and an additional bit may be encoded in the polarity of two driven wires. Certain embodiments encode more than two bits in each transition of a three wire three phase encoding system by allowing transition to any of the possible states from a current state. Given three rotational phases and two polarities for each phase 6 states are defined such that 5 states are available from any current state. Accordingly there may be log 5 2.32 bits per symbol transition and the mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols.

With reference also to Table 1 illustrates the outputs of the comparators for each wire state in the 3 wire 3 Phase Polarity encoding system. In the example the wire states may be encoded in the voltage amplitude on the three connectors and such that a 1 state of a wire is represented as a voltage V volts a 1 state of the wire is represented as 0 volts and the undriven state is represented or approximated as V 2 volts. A receiver decoder may be configured to output a code at the digital output of the receiver for each symbol decoded.

At the receiver N phase symbols are received and accumulated from the M wire bus typically over a plurality of transmission clock cycles. The accumulated symbols may then be decoded by a symbol to bits mapper . Transmit clocks may be derived from one or more portions of the M wire bus and configuration information may be communicated using a designated group of connectors that provide a primary channel. In the example of the 9 wire bus configured as three different 3 wire bus segments one bus segment may be identified as the primary channel with a default encoding scheme to be used during power up and synchronization. Commands communicated over the bus may cause the transmitter and receiver to enter a hibernate stage on one or more of the 3 wire segments.

N Phase data transfer may use more than three signal wires or other connectors in provided in a communication medium. The use of additional signal wires that can be driven simultaneously provides more combinations of states and polarities and allows more bits of data to be encoded at each transition between states. This can significantly improve throughput of the system while limiting power consumption as opposed to communications links that use multiple differential pairs to transmit data bits while providing increased bandwidth. Power consumption can be further limited by dynamically configuring the number of active connectors for each transmission.

Of the 4 wires driven the possible combinations of two wires driven positive and the other two must be negative . The combinations of polarity may include 

Accordingly the total number of different states may be calculated as 15 6 90. To guarantee a transition between successive symbols 89 states are available for transition from any current state and the number of bits that may be encoded in each symbol may be calculated as log 89 6.47 bits per symbol. In this example a 32 bit word can be encoded by the mapper into 5 symbols given that 5 6.47 32.35 bits.

The general equation for the number of combinations of wires that can be driven for a bus of any size as a function of the number of wires in the bus and number of wires simultaneously driven 

In some embodiments an encoder may be configured to increase the number of wires used for N phase encoding when increased bandwidth is required. Bandwidth may change when for example a video clip is to be displayed to a user of apparatus or when a burst of data is to be transferred between processing circuits and or memory devices. Changes in bandwidth may also correspond or relate to power control measures as well as specific application needs. For example the apparatus of may dynamically reconfigure the connectors of a communications link to initiate power saving measures that may conserve battery lifetime when demand for bandwidth is curtailed.

When increased or decreased bandwidth is required or requested an encoder may increase or decrease the number of active conductors to be used for N phase encoding. Such adaptive encoding can enable the power efficient provision of variable bandwidth. In one example additional wires can be added in atomic units. An atomic unit may include three wires that employ 3 phase polarity encoding described herein . In another example additional encoding states may be defined by adding pairs of wires to an M wire N phase bus. In another example additional encoding states may be obtained by adding a single wire whereby two wires are undriven for each state. Addition of an undriven wire may increase power consumption less than adding a pair of driven wires.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein an M wire N phase physical layer N phase PHY interface is provided to support a multiphase signal. Referring again to in one example a 3 phase signal provided on a wire is defined by two active signals of opposite polarity and one undriven signal in which no current is transmitted and or the wire is open circuited. A 3 phase PHY may encode and decode the 3 phase signal by causing the undriven signal to transition to a neutral voltage e.g. 0 volts at both ends of the transmission line circuit to prevent current flow.

Conventional interfaces do not have information encoded in the undriven state. is a diagram that illustrates a conventional differential physical layer DPHY used to transmit signals. Data bits are captured by a register or similar device. The data bits may include a byte word or other grouping of bits. The captured bits are serialized using a shift register or other parallel to serial converter. The shift register is clocked at the transmission rate of the interface. A differential driver converts each bit to a differential signal. The differential may drive two signal wires and . In one example the two signal wires may be driven at different voltages which may have opposite polarities. In another example a current is passed in one direction or the other between the two wires and . In some instances the driver may be a tri state buffer that can be effectively disconnected to enable a different driver not shown to drive the wires and

A differential line driver line may include transistors and configured to provide a pair of signals and that are effective inverses of one another for all signaling states. A conventional DPHY does not define an undriven state in which information is encoded based on the state of the undriven state and the state of two or more other wires.

In a second example an active termination may be provided to more rapidly settle a wire or other transmission line connected to a terminal of the driver circuit. In this example an additional termination circuit includes two termination transistors and which are both turned on when neither pull up transistor nor pull down transistor is turned on that is to say when both the pull up transistor and the pull down transistor are turned off the two termination transistors and are turned on. Detection logic here a NOR function determines when neither transistor or is enabled and the detection logic activates the additional termination transistors and thereby causing the transmission wire at the output terminal to converge more quickly on the 0 state. One of the termination transistors or couples the output terminal through and impedance to the 1 voltage level and the second termination transistor or couples the output terminal through and impedance to the 1 voltage level such that the voltage at the output terminal is pulled towards the 0 state voltage level. The 0 state is typically defined as a voltage level between the voltage levels of the 1 and 1 states. The impedances associated with the termination transistors or may be selected such that terminating circuit matches the characteristic impedance of the signal wire.

At step the transmitter may map data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires.

At step the transmitter may encode the sequence of symbols in three signals. Each of the three signals may be in one of three phases for each symbol to be transmitted. The three signals may be in different phases from one another during transmission of each symbol.

At step the transmitter may drive each of three terminals in accordance with one of the three signals.

As shown at driving the each of the three terminals includes one of a plurality of steps performed for each symbol.

At step the transmitter may turn on or otherwise activate a first transistor and turn off or otherwise deactivate a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase. The corresponding terminal is driven towards a first voltage level when the first transistor is turned on.

At step the transmitter may turn on or otherwise activate a second transistor and turn off or otherwise deactivate the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase. The corresponding terminal is driven towards a second voltage level when the second transistor is turned on.

At step the transmitter may turn off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase. The corresponding terminal may drift towards a third voltage level when the first transistor is turned off and the second transistor is turned off The third voltage level may lie within a voltage range bounded by the first voltage level and the second voltage level. The third transistor and the fourth transistor may be turned off when the corresponding one of the three signals is in the first phase or in the second phase.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein driving each of the three terminals may include turning on a third transistor and turning on a fourth transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase. The corresponding terminal is pulled towards a third voltage level when the third transistor is turned on and the fourth transistor is turned on. The third voltage level may lie within a voltage range bounded by the first voltage level and the second voltage level. Turning on the third transistor may cause a terminal to be coupled to the first voltage through a first impedance and turning on the fourth transistor may cause the terminal to be coupled to the second voltage through a second impedance. The first impedance and the second impedance may be selected to provide a desired impedance at a terminal.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein information may be encoded in phase rotation at each transition between symbols in the sequence of symbols. Two signals of the three signals may be in the first phase or the second phase for each symbol to be transmitted and information may be encoded in relative polarity of the two signals.

The processing circuit may include or be coupled to line drivers and associated logic. The line drivers may is coupled to a plurality of wires . The line drivers provide a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a bus. The processing circuit includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium . The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing circuit to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software. The processing system further includes at least one of the modules and . The modules and may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof.

In one configuration the apparatus includes a module circuit or other means that is configured to map data to a sequence of symbols to be transmitted on a plurality of wires a module circuit or other means that is configured to encode the sequence of symbols in three signals and a module circuit or other means that is configured to cause the line drivers to drive each of three terminals in accordance with one of the three signals. In one example the module circuit or other means is configured to turn on a first transistor and turn off a second transistor when a corresponding one of the three signals is in a first phase turn on the second transistor and turn off the first transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a second phase and turn off the first transistor and the second transistor when the corresponding one of the three signals is in a third phase.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. The specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged based upon design preferences. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

