---

title: Compositions and methods for treating colon cancer
abstract: Certain embodiments are directed to methods of treating a pathophysiological state or symptoms thereof resulting from aldose reductase-mediated signaling in a cytotoxic pathway using an aldose reductase specific inhibitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09308206&OS=09308206&RS=09308206
owner: THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
number: 09308206
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140127
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 586 050 pending filed Sep. 16 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 478 069 abandoned filed Jun. 29 2006 and is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 282 801 U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 430 filed Nov. 18 2005 which claims benefit of provisional U.S. Ser. No. 60 629 448 filed Nov. 19 2004. This application also claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 210 283 pending filed Aug. 23 2005 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 603 725 filed on Aug. 23 2004. The current application claims priority to all of the above referenced applications all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under DK36118 HL55477 EY01677 and HL59378 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A sequence listing required by 37 CFR 1.821 1.825 is being submitted electronically with this application. The sequence listing is incorporated herein by reference.

Aldose reductase AR is a monomeric barrel TIM barrel protein belonging to the aldo keto reductase AKR superfamily Jez et al. 1997 326 625 636 Rondeau et al. 1992 355 469 72 Wilson et al. 1992 257 81 84 . Aldose reductase is a broad specificity oxidoreductase catalyzing the reduction of a structurally diverse range of aldehydes including medium to long chain aldehydes glucose and other aldo sugars aldehyde metabolites of neurotransmitters isocorticosteroid hormones and a variety of xenobiotic aldehydes to their corresponding alcohols Bhatnagar et al. 1992 48 91 121 . Reduction of glucose to sorbitol by aldose reductase constitutes the first and rate limiting step of the polyol pathway that converts glucose to fructose via sorbitol dehydrogenase. Although this pathway usually represents a minor route of glucose metabolism its activation during diabetes has been linked to the development of several clinically significant secondary complications such as nephropathy neuropathy retinopathy and cardiovascular related complications Bhatnagar et al. 1992 48 91 121 Nishikawa et al. 2000 . Suppl. 77 S26 30 . Several drugs that inhibit aldose reductase have been shown to prevent hyperglycemia induced changes in nerve kidney and lens of experimental animals although clinical trials with Type I and Type II diabetics have not been uniformly positive Bhatnagar et al. 1992 48 91 121 Nishikawa et al. 2000 . Suppl. 77 S26 30 Parry 1999 107 27S 33S .

In addition to glucose it has been shown that aldose reductase catalyzes the reduction of multiple biologically active aldehydes generated by the peroxidation of membrane lipids and lipoproteins Srivastava et al. 1995 217 741 746 Srivastava et al. 1998 329 469 475 Srivastava et al. 1999 38 42 54 or during glucose van der Jagt et al. 1992 267 4364 4369 and amine Kawamura et al. 1999 58 517 24 metabolism. The aldehyde detoxifying role of aldose reductase is supported by the observation that inhibition of the enzyme increases the accumulation of lipid peroxidation products Rittner et al. 1999 103 1007 13 Shinmura et al. 2002 91 240 612 that cause cytotoxicity Ruef et al. 2000 20 1745 52 Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 . The most abundant and toxic lipid peroxidation product is 4 hydroxy trans 2 nonenal 16 which is efficiently reduced by aldose reductase in vitro and in vivo.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods of preventing a pathophysiological state or treating symptoms thereof resulting from aldose reductase mediated signaling of a cytotoxic pathway in a subject. Embodiments are directed further still to a related methods of treating a pathophysiological state or symptoms thereof resulting from aldose reductase mediated signaling in a cytotoxic pathway in a subject. The method comprises administering a pharmacologically effective amount of an inhibitor of aldose reductase to the subject thereby preventing aldose reductase mediated signaling.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods of treating or preventing cancer. The present invention is directed further still to another related method of treating cancer such as colon cancer in a subject. The method comprises administering a pharmacologically effective amount of an aldose reductase inhibitor to the subject to inhibit colon cancer cell proliferation thereby treating the cancer.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods of treating a subject having colon cancer comprising administering a pharmacologically effective amount of a composition comprising an aldose reductase specific inhibitor to the subject having colon cancer. In certain aspects the aldose reductase specific inhibitor is selected from ponalrestat tolrestat epalrestat zenarestat sorbinil fidarestat minalrestat or zopolrestat. In a further aspect the aldose reductase specific inhibitor is fidarestat.

As used herein the term a or an may mean one or more. As used herein in the claim s when used in conjunction with the word comprising the words a or an may mean one or more than one. As used herein another or other may mean at least a second or more of the same or different claim element or components thereof. As used herein the term subject refers to any target of the treatment.

The following abbreviations are used herein AR aldose reductase or human aldose reductase ARL2 E.C. 1.1.1.21 sAR Pig aldose reductase AR E.C. 1.1.1.21 ARI aldose reductase inhibitor NADPH dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate NADP nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate DCEG S 1 2 dicarboxyethyl glutathione glutamyi S 1 2 dicarboxyethyl cysteinylglycine ROS reactive oxygen species CNS Crystallography and NMR Software GS or GSH glutathione glutamylcysteinylglycine GS HNE glutathionyl 4 hydroxynonenal GS DHN glutathionyl 1 4 dihydroxynonene PGE2 prostaglandin E2 MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 5 3 carboxymethoxyphenyl 2 4 sulfophenyl 2H tetrazolium salt bFGF basic fibroblast growth factor Cox cyclooxygenase DHN 1 4 dihydroxynonene HNE 4 hydroxy trans 2 nonenal NF kB nuclear factor kappa binding protein PKC Protein kinase C PDGF Platelet derived growth factor SEAP Secretory alkaline phosphatase.

Other and further aspects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description of the embodiments of the invention given for the purpose of disclosure.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods of preventing a pathophysiological state or treating symptoms thereof resulting from aldose reductase mediated signaling of a cytotoxic pathway in a subject comprising administering a pharmacologically effective amount of the inhibitor described herein to the subject and inhibiting the reduction of a glutathione aldehyde substrate via aldose reductase thereby preventing the cytotoxic signaling in the subject. An example of a pathophysiological state is colon cancer or one comprising inflammation. An example of a cytotoxic pathway is PLC PKC NFKB or other NF KB dependent inflammatory processes for example due to a bacterial infection.

In another related embodiment there is provided a method of treating a pathophysiological state or symptoms thereof resulting from aldose reductase mediated signaling in a cytotoxic pathway in a subject comprising administering a pharmacologically effective amount of an inhibitor of aldose reductase to the subject thereby preventing aldose reductase mediated signaling.

In one aspect the inhibitor may be a small interfering RNA siRNA . An example of an siRNA has the sequence of SEQ ID NO 1. Alternatively the siRNA may comprise a vector effective to transfect a cell characteristic of the pathophysiological state. A person having ordinary skill in this art would readily recognize that any method to reduce aldose reductase e.g. antisense molecules or aldose reductase inhibitors may be utilized. A representative example of such a cell is a colon cancer cell although any cancer cell may be targeted in this manner.

In certain embodiments the pathophysiological state may be a cancer. A representative example of a cancer is colon cancer. Furthermore the cytotoxic pathway may be a PLC PKC NF KB pathway. Inhibition of this pathway may inhibit signaling by one or more of NF KB prostaglandin 2 PGE2 or cyclooxygenase Cox 2 .

In yet another related embodiment there is provided a method of treating colon cancer in a subject comprising administering a pharmacologically effective amount of an aldose reductase small interfering RNA siRNA to the subject to inhibit colon cancer cell proliferation thereby treating the colon cancer. The siRNA or vector comprising the same are as described supra.

Provided herein is a crystallized ternary complex of human aldose reductase bound to NADPH and glutamyi S 1 2 dicarboxyethyl cysteineinylglycine a competitive inhibitor of AR catalyzed reaction of glutathionyl propanal 19 . The ternary structure confirms the presence of two active sites within AR NADPH. The crystal structure was determined to 1.9 and revealed novel interactions between the glutathione backbone and active site residues.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods of inhibiting expression of aldose reductase at the RNA translational level. It is contemplated that administration of aldose reductase small interfering RNAs siRNA is useful in the treatment of a pathophysiological state such as a cancer. It is specifically contemplated that inhibiting expression of aldose reductase will be useful in treating any type of cancer. A representative cancer is colon cancer. The siRNAs may be useful in the treatment of or alleviation of other pathophysiological conditions or symptoms resulting from aldose reductase mediated signaling of a cytotoxic pathway. For example conditions exhibiting or characterized by inflammation e.g. lipopolysaccharide induced inflammation may benefit from such treatment or therapy.

The design methodology for siRNAs is known in the art and or they may be obtained commercially. For example without being limiting an siRNA effective as a therapeutic may have the sequence of SEQ ID NO 1. siRNAs may be administered to a subject as the naked oligomer or as comprising a suitable transfection vector or with a carrier molecule or moiety as are known and standard in the art.

It is standard in the art to formulate a therapeutic compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as a pharmaceutical composition. It is also standard in the art to determine dose dosage and routes of administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compounds. Such determination is routinely made by one of skill in the art based on the individual and the particular pathophysiological state or symptoms exhibited by the patient and the patient s history.

The inhibitors of aldose reductase can be any compound that inhibits the enzyme aldose reductase. It is contemplated that the aldose reductase inhibitors provided herein may be used as a therapeutic to treat or modulate or otherwise alter a pathophysiological state or event or symptoms thereof mediated by reduction products of aldose reductase as part of the pathology. For example and without being limiting a specific inhibitor could prevent glutathione binding without affecting the carbonyl reduction necessary to detoxify lipid aldehydes. Such inhibition could regulate TNF growth factor lipopolysaccharide and hyperglycemia induced cytotoxicity mediated by reactive oxygen species in for example the PLC PKC NF kB pathway. It is further contemplated that such an inhibitor may limit access of other bulky molecules such as glucose to the AR active site thereby reducing other adverse effects of hyperglycemia as mediated by AR s role in the osmotic stress pathway.

It is contemplated that an aldose reductase inhibitor may specifically bind or recognize a particular region of AR including 300 350 375 385 or greater contiguous amino acids of aldose reductase or any range of numbers of contiguous amino acids derivable therein. The aldose reductase inhibitor compounds of this invention are readily available or can be easily synthesized by those skilled in the art using conventional methods of organic synthesis particularly in view of the pertinent patent specifications. Many of these are well known to those of skill in the art and a number of pharmaceutical grade AR inhibitors are commercially available such as Tolrestat N 6 methoxy 5 trifluoromethyl 1 naphthalenyl thioxomethyl N methylglycine Wyeth Ayerst Princeton N.J. other designations are Tolrestatin CAS Registry Number 82964 04 3 Drug Code AY 27 773 and brand names ALREDASE Am. Home and LORESTAT Recordati Ponalrestat 3 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 4 oxo 3H phthalazin 1 ylacetic acid ICI Macclesfield U.K. other designations are CAS Registry Number 72702 95 5 ICI 128 436 and STATIL ICI Sorbinil S 6 fluoro 2 3 dihydrospiro 4H 1 benzopyran 4 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione Pfizer Groton Conn. CAS Registry Number 68367 52 2 Drug Code CP 45 634 EPALRESTAT ONO Japan METHOSORBINIL Eisal ALCONIL Alcon AL 1576 Alcon CT 112 Takeda AND 138 Kyorin .

A variety of aldose reductase inhibitors are specifically described and referenced below however other aldose reductase inhibitors will be known to those skilled in the art. Also common chemical USAN names or other designations are in parentheses where applicable together with reference to appropriate patent literature disclosing the compound. Accordingly examples of aldose reductase inhibitors useful in the compositions methods and kits of this invention include but are not limited to 3 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 3 4 dihydro 4 oxo 1 phthalazineacetic acid ponalrestat U.S. Pat. No. 4 251 528 N 5 trifluoromethyl 6 methoxy 1 naphthalenyl thioxomethyl N methylglycine tolrestat U.S. Pat. No. 4 600 724 5 Z E methylcinnamylidene 4 oxo 2 thioxo 3 thiazolideneacetic acid epalrestat U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 464 382 4 791 126 and 4 831 045 3 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro 3 4 dihydro 2 4 dioxo 1 2H quinazolineacetic acid zenarestat U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 734 419 and 4 883 800 2R 4R 6 7 dichloro 4 hydroxy 2 methylchroman 4 acetic acid U.S. Pat. No. 4 883 410 2R 4R 6 7 dichloro 6 fluoro 4 hydroxy 2 methylchroman 4 acetic acid U.S. Pat. No. 4 883 410 3 4 dihydro 2 8 diisopropyl 3 oxo 2H 1 4 benzoxazine 4 acetic acid U.S. Pat. No. 4 771 050 3 4 dihydro 3 oxo 4 4 5 7 trifluoro 2 benzothiazolyl methyl 2H 1 4 benzothiazine 2 acetic acid SPR 210 U.S. Pat. No. 5 252 572 N 3 5 dimethyl 4 nitromethyl sulfonyl phenyl 2 methyl benzeneacetamide ZD5522 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 270 342 and 5 430 060 S 6 fluorospiro chroman 4 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione sorbinil U.S. Pat. No. 4 130 714 d 2 methyl 6 fluoro spiro chroman 4 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. No. 4 540 704 2 fluoro spiro 9H fluorene 9 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. No. 4 438 272 2 7 di fluoro spiro 9H fluorene 9 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. No. 4 436 745 U.S. Pat. No. 4 438 272 2 7 di fluoro 5 methoxy spiro 9H fluorene 9 4 imidazolidine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. No. 4 436 745 U.S. Pat. No. 4 438 272 7 fluoro spiro 5H indenol 1 2 b pyridine 5 3 pyrrolidine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 436 745 4 438 272 d cis 6 chloro 2 3 dihydro 2 methyl spiro imidazolidine 4 4 4 H pyrano 2 3 b pyridine 2 5 dione U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 357 spiro imidazolidine 4 5 6H quinoline 2 5 dione 3 chloro 7 8 dihydro 7 methyl 5 cis U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 659 2S 4S 6 fluoro 2 5 dioxospiro chroman 4 4 imidazolidine 2 carboxamide fidarestat U.S. Pat. No. 5 447 946 and 2 4 bromo 2 fluorophenyl methyl 6 fluorospiro isoquinoline 4 1H 3 pyrrolidine 1 2 3 5 2H tetrone minalrestat U.S. Pat. No. 5 037 831 . Other compounds include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 720 348 6 380 200 and 5 990 111 which are hereby incorporated by reference. Moreover in other embodiments it is specifically contemplated that any of these may be excluded as part of the invention.

It is standard in the art to formulate a therapeutic compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as a pharmaceutical composition. It is also standard in the art to determine dose dosage and routes of administration of the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compounds. Such determination is routinely made by one of skill in the art based on the individual and the particular pathophysiological state or symptoms exhibited by the patient and the patients history.

The ternary structure demonstrates that DCEG binding induces a significant conformational reorganization of the active site. The carboxylate moiety of DCEG binds in the aldose reductase active site while the GS C terminus binds in the aldose reductase loop C. The binding of glutathione to aldose reductase significantly reorients loops A and B of the protein thereby providing an induced fit mechanism that enables the active site to bind substrates of different sizes. This induced fit rearrangement and the multiplicity of specific interactions at the aldose reductase active site with glutathione are indicative of a highly selective glutathione binding domain.

Thus the ternary structure is used in methods of developing therapeutic inhibitors that selectively prevent binding of glutathione conjugated substrates. These structure based inhibitors are designed using rational drug design in conjunction with computer modeling of the coordinates of the ternary crystalline structure.

The AR NADPH DCEG ternary complex structure was refined to 1.94 resolution with a final R factor of 21.6 . This structure showed well defined electron density for the DCEG substrate at the top of aldose reductase active site pocket. The DCEG was bound between two opposing surfaces of the active site pocket but did not completely fill the active site cleft. The DCEG substrate made 80 contacts defined as inter residue distances 4 with residues in the active site cleft. The majority of these intermolecular contacts were hydrophobic. The NADPH binding site was located at the base of the aldose reductase hydrophobic active site pocket and the NADPH cofactor was bound to the ternary complex in an orientation identical to that observed in previously reported crystal structures Wilson et al. 1992 257 81 84 Calderone et al. 2000 56 536 40 Urzhumtsev et al. 1997 5 601 12 .

The active site of aldose reductase sat at the base of a deep cleft or binding pocket. The sides of the active site pocket were formed by three flexible loops A B and C that sat on top of the aldose reductase barrel. The active site comprises residues Tyr 48 His 110 and Trp 111. DCEG was bound in the active site almost filling the active site pocket. Trp 219 forms one side of the narrow pocket holding the inhibitor DCEG. The other residues lining this pocket included Trp 20 Trp 79 Trp 111 Phe 122 NADPH Val 47 Cys 298 Ala 299 Leu 300 and Leu 301.

The C terminal glycine moiety of DCEG was extensively hydrogen bonded to the backbone atoms of residues 300 302 in the flexible human aldose reductase C terminal loop loop C . In addition the ligand made several van der Waals contacts with aldose reductase. Several bound water molecules mediated the interaction between the DCEG glycine moiety and aldose reductase. The amides of Ala 299 and Leu 300 were bound indirectly to DCEG through a water molecule. The terminal carboxylate group of the DCEG interacted with the backbone of Leu 301 and Ser 302 and indirectly with Leu 301 through a network of waters. These residues were in human aldose reductase loop C which has been shown to be important for enzymatic activity. Mutations within this loop result in drastically lowered human aldose reductase activity Bohren et al. 1992 267 20965 70 .

The dicarboxyethyl group of DCEG was anchored in the conserved anion binding site between the nicotinamide ring of the NADPH cofactor and aldose reductase residues Tyr 48 His 110 and Trp 111 similar to other known aldose reductase inhibitors Calderone et al. 2000 56 536 40 Urzhumtsev et al. 1997 5 601 12 . The terminal carboxylates of the dicarboxyethyl conjugate s longer arm Oi2 and Oj2 were hydrogen bonded to active site residues His 110 Tyr 48 and Trp 111. The glutamate of DCEG was observed to interact with the AR enzyme only through van der Waals contacts with Phe 122 that formed one side of the hydrophobic active site pocket. The lack of hydrogen bonds or extensive contacts permitted the glutamate moiety significant conformational freedom.

The higher temperature factors for these atoms reflected the relative disorder in the N terminal end of DCEG. The hydrophobic walls of the upper portion of the aldose reductase active site pocket were formed in large part by Trp 219 and Phe 122 similar to the structures observed in other AR inhibitor complexes Calderone et al. 2000 56 536 40 Urzhumtsev et al. 1997 5 601 12 . These two aromatic residues tightly constrained the position of the cysteine moiety in DCEG. The Phe 122 and Trp 219 side chains could move slightly to accommodate differently sized inhibitors. The extensive van der Waals contacts with Trp 20 observed in the aromatic inhibitors tolrestat zopolrestat and sorbinil were completely absent in DCEG. The Trp 20 and Trp 79 residues although still defining the active site pocket did not interact with DCEG directly. They did however limit the conformational space available to the DCEG molecule.

The structure of the human aldose reductase enzyme within the ternary complex showed significant conformational differences relative to the AR NADPH binary complex Wilson et al. 1992 257 81 84 . The backbone atoms of Pro 123 to Val 131 in loop A and Pro 218 to Pro 225 in loop B which flank the active site pocket were reoriented 5 upon DCEG binding relative to the binary structure. The AR NADPH DCEG ternary complex more closely resembled the AR NADP zopolrestat Wilson et al. 1993 90 9847 51 and AR NADP Idd384 Calderone et al. 2000 56 536 40 ternary complexes than the AR NADPH binary complex. In the ternary complexes the largest relative atomic movements with rmsd 1 occurred in the region of Ser 127 Pro 222 and Leu 300.

The conformation of loop B residues Pro 218 to Pro 225 was very similar in all of the AR structures with just the backbone conformation of residues Pro 222 and Asp 224 flipping in the holoenzyme. Loop A of the holoenzyme structure Wilson et al. 1992 257 81 84 displayed a completely different conformation for this entire loop region relative to the current complex. Loop C was observed in two different conformations which depended on the size and shape of the inhibitor bound in the solved AR structures. The conformation of loop C in AR NADPH DCEG had the greatest similarity to the human aldose reductase structures found in the AR NADPH holoenzyme Wilson et al. 1992 257 81 84 and AR NADPH Idd384 ternary complex Calderone et al. 2000 56 536 40 . Additionally loop C in the current structure had large positional differences with the conformation observed in the zoplorestat and tolrestat ternary complexes Urzhumtsev et a. 1997 5 601 12 . This indicated that loop C was dynamic and could move to accommodate larger molecules such as zopolrestat and tolrestat. The smaller sorbinil inhibitor did not change this loop s conformation significantly Urzhumtsev et a. 1997 5 601 12 .

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may comprise an effective amount of one or more AR inhibitors dissolved or dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a subject. The phrases pharmaceutical or pharmacologically acceptable refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce an adverse allergic or other untoward reaction when administered to an animal such as for example a human as appropriate. The preparation of a pharmaceutical composition that contains at least one AR inhibitor or additional active ingredient will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure and as exemplified by Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company 1990 incorporated herein by reference. Moreover for animal e.g. human administration it will be understood that preparations should meet sterility pyrogenicity general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biological Standards.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings surfactants antioxidants preservatives e.g. antibacterial agents antifungal agents isotonic agents absorption delaying agents salts preservatives drugs drug stabilizers gels binders excipients disintegration agents lubricants sweetening agents flavoring agents dyes such like materials and combinations thereof as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company 1990 pp. 1289 1329 incorporated herein by reference . Except insofar as any conventional carrier is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated. An AR inhibitor can be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or with a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.

The expression pharmaceutically acceptable salts includes both pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts and pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts where appropriate. The expression pharmaceutically acceptable cationic salts is intended to define but is not limited to such salts as the alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium aluminum salts ammonium salts and salts with organic amines such as benzathine N N dibenzylethylenediamine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine benethamine N benzylphenethylamine diethylamine piperazine tromethamine 2 amino 2 hydroxymethyl 1 3 propanediol and procaine. The expression pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts is intended to define but is not limited to such salts as the hydrochloride hydrobromide sulfate hydrogen sulfate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihydrogenphosphate acetate succinate citrate methanesulfonate mesylate and p toluenesulfonate tosylate salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the aldose reductase inhibitors of this invention may be readily prepared by reacting the free acid form of the aldose reductase inhibitor with an appropriate base usually one equivalent in a co solvent. Typical bases are sodium hydroxide sodium methoxide sodium ethoxide sodium hydride potassium methoxide magnesium hydroxide calcium hydroxide benzathine choline diethanolamine piperazine and tromethamine. The salt is isolated by concentration to dryness or by addition of a non solvent. In many cases salts are preferably prepared by mixing a solution of the acid with a solution of a different salt of the cation sodium or potassium ethylhexanoate magnesium oleate and employing a solvent e.g. ethyl acetate from which the desired cationic salt precipitates or can be otherwise isolated by concentration and or addition of a non solvent.

The acid addition salts of the aldose reductase inhibitors of this invention may be readily prepared by reacting the free base form of said aldose reductase inhibitor with the appropriate acid. When the salt is of a monobasic acid e.g. the hydrochloride the hydrobromide the p toluenesulfonate the acetate the hydrogen form of a dibasic acid e.g. the hydrogen sulfate the succinate or the dihydrogen form of a tribasic acid e.g. the dihydrogen phosphate the citrate at least one molar equivalent and usually a molar excess of the acid is employed. However when such salts as the sulfate the hemisuccinate the hydrogen phosphate or the phosphate are desired the appropriate and exact chemical equivalents of acid will generally be used. The free base and the acid are usually combined in a co solvent from which the desired salt precipitates or can be otherwise isolated by concentration and or addition of a non solvent.

The pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition and cationic salts of antibiotics used in the combination of this invention may be prepared in a manner analogous to that described for the preparation of the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition and cationic salts of the aldose reductase inhibitors.

In addition the aldose reductase inhibitors that may be used in accordance with this invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof or of said prodrugs may occur as hydrates or solvates. These hydrates and solvates are also within the scope of the invention.

A pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may comprise different types of carriers depending on whether it is to be administered in solid liquid or aerosol form and whether it needs to be sterile for such routes of administration as injection. A pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be administered intravenously intradermally intraarterially intraperitoneally intraarticularly intrapleurally intranasally topically intramuscularly intraperitoneally subcutaneously subconjunctival intravesicularlly mucosally intrapericardially intraumbilically orally topically locally inhalation e.g. aerosol inhalation injection infusion continuous infusion via a catheter via a lavage in lipid compositions e.g. liposomes or by other method or any combination of the forgoing as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company 1990 incorporated herein by reference .

The actual dosage amount of a composition of the present invention administered to a subject can be determined by physical and physiological factors such as body weight severity of condition the type of disease being treated previous or concurrent therapeutic interventions idiopathy of the patient and on the route of administration. The number of doses and the period of time over which the dose may be given may vary. The practitioner responsible for administration will in any event determine the concentration of active ingredient s in a composition and appropriate dose s as well as the length of time for administration for the individual subject. An amount of an aldose reductase inhibitor that is effective for inhibiting aldose reductase activity is used. Typically an effective dosage for the inhibitors is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg day to 100 mg kg day in single or divided doses preferably 0.1 mg kg day to 20 mg kg day in single or divided doses. Doses of about at least about or at most about 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40 0.45 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90. 0.95 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 mg kg day or any range derivable therein.

In certain embodiments pharmaceutical compositions may comprise for example at least about 0.1 of an active compound. In other embodiments the an active compound may comprise between about 2 to about 75 of the weight of the unit or between about 25 to about 60 for example and any range derivable therein. In other non limiting examples a dose may also comprise from about 1 microgram kg body weight about 5 microgram kg body weight about 10 microgram kg body weight about 50 microgram kg body weight about 100 microgram kg body weight about 200 microgram kg body weight about 350 microgram kg body weight about 500 microgram kg body weight about 1 milligram kg body weight about 5 milligram kg body weight about 10 milligram kg body weight about 50 milligram kg body weight about 100 milligram kg body weight about 200 milligram kg body weight about 350 milligram kg body weight about 500 milligram kg body weight to about 1000 mg kg body weight or more per administration and any range derivable therein. In non limiting examples of a derivable range from the numbers listed herein a range of about 5 mg kg body weight to about 100 mg kg body weight about 5 microgram kg body weight to about 500 milligram kg body weight etc. can be administered based on the numbers described above.

In any case the composition may comprise various antioxidants to retard oxidation of one or more component. Additionally the prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by preservatives such as various antibacterial and antifungal agents including but not limited to parabens e.g. methylparabens propylparabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal or combinations thereof.

An AR inhibitor s of the present invention may be formulated into a composition in a free base neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts e.g. those formed with the free amino groups of a proteinaceous composition or which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric or mandelic acid. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides or such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine histidine or procaine.

In embodiments where the composition is in a liquid form a carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium comprising but not limited to water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol etc lipids e.g. triglycerides vegetable oils liposomes and combinations thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size by dispersion in carriers such as for example liquid polyol or lipids by the use of surfactants such as for example hydroxypropylcellulose or combinations thereof such methods. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents such as for example sugars sodium chloride or combinations thereof.

In certain aspects of the invention the AR inhibitors are prepared for administration by such routes as oral ingestion. In these embodiments the solid composition may comprise for example solutions suspensions emulsions tablets pills capsules e.g. hard or soft shelled gelatin capsules sustained release formulations buccal compositions troches elixirs suspensions syrups wafers or combinations thereof. Oral compositions may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet. Preferred carriers for oral administration comprise inert diluents assimilable edible carriers or combinations thereof. In other aspects of the invention the oral composition may be prepared as a syrup or elixir. A syrup or elixir and may comprise for example at least one active agent a sweetening agent a preservative a flavoring agent a dye a preservative or combinations thereof.

In certain preferred embodiments an oral composition may comprise one or more binders excipients disintegration agents lubricants flavoring agents and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments a composition may comprise one or more of the following a binder such as for example gum tragacanth acacia cornstarch gelatin or combinations thereof an excipient such as for example dicalcium phosphate mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate or combinations thereof a disintegrating agent such as for example corn starch potato starch alginic acid or combinations thereof a lubricant such as for example magnesium stearate a sweetening agent such as for example sucrose lactose saccharin or combinations thereof a flavoring agent such as for example peppermint oil of wintergreen cherry flavoring orange flavoring etc. or combinations thereof the foregoing. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type carriers such as a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with shellac sugar or both.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and or the other ingredients. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions suspensions or emulsion the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying or freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered liquid medium thereof. The liquid medium should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic prior to injection with sufficient saline or glucose. The preparation of highly concentrated compositions for direct injection is also contemplated where the use of DMSO as solvent is envisioned to result in extremely rapid penetration delivering high concentrations of the active agents to a small area.

The composition must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. It will be appreciated that endotoxin contamination should be kept minimally at a safe level for example less that 0.5 ng mg protein.

In particular embodiments prolonged absorption of an injectable composition can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption such as for example aluminum monostearate gelatin or combinations thereof.

In order to increase the effectiveness of treatments with the compositions of the present invention such as an AR inhibitor it may be desirable to combine it with other therapeutic agents. This process may involve contacting the cell s with an AR inhibitor and a therapeutic agent at the same time or within a period of time wherein separate administration of the modulator and an agent to a cell tissue or organism produces a desired therapeutic benefit. The terms contacted and exposed when applied to a cell tissue or organism are used herein to describe the process by which a AR inhibitor and or therapeutic agent are delivered to a target cell tissue or organism or are placed in direct juxtaposition with the target cell tissue or organism. The cell tissue or organism may be contacted e.g. by administration with a single composition or pharmacological formulation that includes both a AR inhibitor and one or more agents or by contacting the cell with two or more distinct compositions or formulations wherein one composition includes an AR inhibitor and the other includes one or more agents.

The AR inhibitor may precede be concurrent with and or follow the other agent s by intervals ranging from minutes to weeks. In embodiments where the AR inhibitor and other agent s are applied separately to a cell tissue or organism one would generally ensure that a significant period of time did not expire between the time of each delivery such that the inhibitor and agent s would still be able to exert an advantageously combined effect on the cell tissue or organism. For example in such instances it is contemplated that one may contact the cell tissue or organism with two three four or more modalities substantially simultaneously i.e. within less than about a minute as the modulator. In other aspects one or more agents may be administered within of from substantially simultaneously about 1 minute about 5 minutes about 10 minutes about 20 minutes about 30 minutes about 45 minutes about 60 minutes about 2 hours or more hours or about 1 day or more days or about 4 weeks or more weeks or about 3 months or more months or about one or more years and any range derivable therein prior to and or after administering the AR inhibitor.

In such combinations AR inhibitors and other active agents may be administered together or separately. In addition the administration of one agent may be prior to concurrent to or subsequent to the administration of other agent s .

The following examples as well as the figures are included to demonstrate embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples or figures represent techniques discovered by the inventors to function well in the practice of the invention. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

McCoy s 5A medium Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM phosphate buffered saline PBS penicillin streptomycin solution trypsin and fetal bovine serum FBS were purchased from Invitrogen. Antibodies against Cox 1 Cox 2 and phosphor PKC 2 were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. . Sorbinil and tolrestat were gifts from Pfizer and American Home Products respectively. Mouse anti rabbit glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase antibodies were obtained from Research Diagnostics Inc.

Cyclooxygenase Cox activity assay and prostaglandin E2 PGE2 assay kits were obtained from Cayman Chemical Company Ann Arbor Mich. . Platelet derived growth factor PDGF basic fibroblast growth factor bFGF 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide MTT and other reagents used in the Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay EMSA and Western blot analysis were obtained from Sigma. AR siRNA 5 AATCGGTGTCTCCAACTTCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 1 or scrambled siRNA control 5 AAAATCTCCCTAAATCATACA 3 SEQ ID NO 2 were synthesized by Dharmacon Research. All other reagents used were of analytical grade.

Human colon cancer cell lines HCT 116 and Caco 2 were obtained from American type culture collection ATCC . HCT 116 cells were maintained and grown in McCoy s 5A medium supplemented with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin and Caco 2 cells were grown in DMEM with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO. Human colon adenocarcinoma SW480 cells were purchased from ATCC and cultured at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 COin RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 v v heat inactivated FBS 1 v v P S solution 2 mM L glutamine 10 mM HEPES 1 mM sodium pyruvate 4.5 g L glucose and 1.5 g L sodium bicarbonate.

Caco 2 cells were grown to confluency in DMEM medium harvested by trypsinization and plated 2500 cells well in a 96 well plate. Subconfluent cells were growth arrested in 0.1 FBS. After 24 h 10 ng ml of bFGF or PDGF without or with AR inhibitors sorbinil or tolrestat were added to the media and the cells were incubated for another 24 h. Cells incubated with the AR inhibitors alone served as control. Cell viability was determined by cell count and MTT assay as described earlier Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 Ramana et al. 2004 570 1 3 189 194 Ramana et al. 2003 17 2 315 317 .

PKC activity was measured using the Promega Sigma TECT PKC assay system as described earlier Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 . Briefly aliquots of the reaction mixture 25 mM Tris HCI pH 7.5 1.6 mg mL phosphatidylserine 0.16 mg mL diacylglycerol and 50 mM MgCl were mixed with P ATP 3 000 Ci mmol 10 Ci L and incubated at 30 C. for 10 min. To stop the reaction 7.5 M guanidine hydrochloride were added and the phosphorylated peptide was separated on binding paper. The extent of phosphorylation was detected by measuring radioactivity retained on the paper.

Caco 2 cells were plated in 6 well plates at a density of 2 10cells well. After 24 hours the medium was replaced with fresh medium containing 0.1 serum with or without sorbinil 20 M followed by treatment with either 10 ng ml bFGF or PDGF for another 24 h. The medium was collected from each well and analyzed for PGE2 by using an Enzyme Immuno Assay kit according to the manufacturer s instructions Cayman Chemical Co. Inc. .

Briefly 50 l of diluted standard sample were pipetted into a precoated goat polyclonal anti mouse lgG 96 well plate. Aliquots 50 l of a PGE2 monoclonal antibody and PGE2 acetylcholine esterase AChE conjugate PGE2 tracer were added to each well and allowed to incubate at 4 C. for 24 h. After incubation the wells were washed five times with wash buffer containing 0.05 Tween 20 followed by the addition of 200 l of Ellman s reagent containing acetylthiocholine and 5 5 dithio bis 2 nitrobenzoic acid . Samples were read after 60 min at 412 nm with an ELISA reader. In this procedure the intensity of yellow color is proportional to the amount of PGE2 tracer bound to the well and is inversely proportional to the amount of free PGE2 present in the well during incubation.

For determination of Cox activity growth arrested Caco 2 cells were treated with either 10 ng ml bFGF or PDGF in the absence and presence of sorbinil 20 M for 24 h. The cells were harvested and homogenized in cold 4 C. buffer containing 0.1M Tris HCI pH 7.8 and 1 mM EDTA and the activity was measured in 96 well plate according to the manufacturer s Cayman Chemical Co. Inc. instructions. Briefly 10 l of standard sample were incubated in the presence of arachidonic acid and substrate N N N N tetra methyl phenylenediamine TMPD in a total reaction volume of 210 l. The Cox peroxidase activity was measured calorimetrically by monitoring appearance of oxidized TMPD at 590 nm by using ELISA reader.

Caco 2 cells 1.5 10cells well were plated in six well plates and after attachment overnight were serum starved in optiMEM medium for 24 h with or without aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil 20 M and were transiently transfected with pNF KB SEAP construct or control plasmid pTALSEAP DNA Clontech USA using the lipofectamine plus reagent. After 6 h of transfection cells were treated either with 10 ng ml bFGF or PDGF for 48 h in DMEM medium containing 0.1 FBS. The cell culture medium was then harvested and analyzed for SEAP activity essentially as described by the manufacturer Clontech Laboratories Palo Alto Calif. using a 96 well chemiluminescence plate reader and Kodak Image Station 2000R.

The cytosolic as well as nuclear extracts were prepared as described earlier Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 and the NF kB activity was determined by using the colorimetric non radioactive NF kB p65 Transcription Factor Assay kit Chemicon Intl. as per the supplier s instructions. Briefly a double stranded biotinylated oligonucleotide containing the consensus sequence for NF kB binding 5 GGGACTTTCC 3 SEQ ID NO 3 was mixed with nuclear extract and assay buffer. After incubation the mixture probe extract buffer was transferred to the streptavidin coated ELISA kit and read at 450 nm using an ELISA plate reader. For each experiment triplicate samples were measured for statistical significance.

Total RNA was isolated from Caco 2 cells by using RNaeasy micro isolation kit Qiagen . Total RNA 1.5 g sample was reverse transcribed with Omniscript and Sensiscript reverse transcriptase one Step RT PCR system with HotStarTaq DNA polymerase Qiagen at 55 C. for 30 min followed by PCR amplification. The oligonucleotide primer sequences were as follows 5 AAACCCACTCCAAACACAG 3 sense SEQ ID NO 4 and 5 TCATCAGGCACAGGAGGAAG 3 antisense SEQ ID NO 5 for Cox 2 and 5 TGAGACCTICAACACCCCAG 3 SEQ ID NO 6 and 5 TTCATGAGGTAGTCTGTCAGGTCC 3 SEQ ID NO 7 for actin. PCR reaction was carried out in a GeneAmp 2700 thermocycler Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. under the following conditions initial denaturation at 95 C. for 15 min 35 cycles of 94 C. 30 s 62 C. 30 s 72 C. 1 min and then 72 C. 5 min for final extension Smith et al. 2000 36 5 664 674 . PCR products were electrophoresed in 2 Agarose 1 TAE gels containing 0.5 g ml ethidium bromide.

The Caco 2 cells were grown in 6 well plates at a density of approximately 1.5 10cells well. Growth arrested Caco 2 cells were preincubated with or without sorbinil 20 M or carrier for 24 h and then stimulated with either 10 ng ml bFGF or PDGF for another 24 h. The cells were then washed with PBS and harvested by trypsinization. Cellular DNA was stained with low and high salt solutions. Briefly cells were resuspended in 250 l of solution A low salt stain containing polyetheleneglycol 30 mg ml propidium iodide 0.05 mg ml triton x 100 1 l ml sodium citrate 4 mM RNAse A 10 g ml and incubated at 37 C. for 20 min followed by the addition of 250 l of solution B high salt stain containing 400 mM NaCl instead of 4 mM sodium citrate in solution A and incubated overnight at 4 C. Cell cycle analysis was performed with a minimum of 10 000 events per analysis by using FACScan flow cytometer Becton Dickinson and Co. San Jose Calif. USA .

Caco 2 cells were plated in a 24 well plate at a density of 1.5 10cells well in DMEM and then serum starved at 60 70 confluence in the absence and presence of 20 M sorbinil or tolrestat for overnight in phenol redfree DMEM supplemented with 0.1 FBS. Cells were then pre incubated for 30 min with the ROS sensitive fluorophore 2 7 dichlorofluorescein diacetate DCFH DA which is taken up and oxidized to the fluorescent dichlorofluorescein by intracellular ROS. After incubation with DCFH DA the cells were exposed to FGF or PDGF 10 ng ml for 60 min and fluorescence was measured with a CytoFluorII fluorescence plate reader PerSeptive Biosystems Inc. Framingham Mass. at excitation of 485 nm and emission of 528 nm.

HNE was synthesized as described previously 14 . The glutathione monoethyl ester GS ester obtained from Sigma was purified by HPLC using a reverse phase column Ruef et al. 2000 20 1745 52 and the conjugate of GS ester and FINE was made by incubating 1 mol of 4 H HNE with 3 fold excess of GS ester and 0.1 M potassium phosphate pH 7.0 at 37 C. The reaction was followed by monitoring absorbance at 224 nm. Approximately 90 of FINE was conjugated with GSH over a period of 60 min. The GS HNE ester thus formed was purified by HPLC Ruef et al. 2000 20 1745 52 and its concentration was calculated on the basis of radioactivity. For synthesis of GS DHN ester 1 mol of GS HNE ester was incubated with 1 unit of recombinant human AR and 0.1 mM NADPH in 0.1 M potassium phosphate pH 7.0 at 37 C. The reaction was followed by monitoring the decrease in absorbance at 340 nm. More than 85 of the conjugate was reduced in 30 min. The enzyme was removed by ultrafiltration using an Amicon Centriprep 10 and GS DHN ester in the filtrate was purified on HPLC and confirmed by ESI MS.

To examine Cox 1 Cox 2 phospho PKC 2 and GAPDH Western blot analyses were carried out as described earlier Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 . Equal amounts of protein from cell extracts were subjected to 12 SDS PAGE followed by transfer of proteins to nitrocellulose filters probing with the indicated antibodies and the antigen antibody complex was detected by enhanced chemiluminescence Pierce Piscataway N.J. USA .

Caco 2 cells were grown to 50 60 confluence in DMEM supplemented with 10 FBS and washed four times with Opti MEM 60 min before the transfection with oligonucleotides Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 . The cells were incubated with 2 M AR antisense or scrambled control oligonucleotides using LipofectAMINE Plus 15 g ml as the transfection reagent as suggested by the supplier. After 12 h the medium was replaced with fresh DMEM containing 10 FBS for another 12 h followed by 24 h of incubation in serum free DMEM 0.1 FBS before growth factor stimulation. Changes in the expression of AR were estimated by Western blot analysis using anti AR antibodies.

Data are presented as mean SE and P values were determined by unpaired Student s t test. P values of 

The effects of inhibiting PLC NADPH oxidase and aldose reductase on the production of TNF in a culture medium rat VSMC cells are demonstrated. Growth arrested VSMC in 5.5 mM glucose NG were preincubated for 1 h without or with apocyanin 25 M 0609 100 M calphostin C 0.2 M N acetyl cysteine 10 mM and NF KB inhibitor 18 M respectively followed by the addition of 19.5 mM glucose after which the cells were incubated for 12 and 24 hrs. Incubation with the PC PLC inhibitor calphostin C markedly decreased TNF secretion. A similar decrease in TNF was observed in cells treated with the NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocyanin and the antioxidant N acetylcysteine. Collectively these observations support a mechanism in which high glucose increases TNF secretion by stimulating an intracellular signaling pathway that depends upon the activation of PLC and NADPH oxidase and the resultant change in the redox state of the cells.

That this mechanism requires aldose reductase is suggested by data that show either pharmacological inhibition of AR by treating cells with AR inhibitors sorbinil or tolrestat or antisense ablation of the AR gene prevents high glucose induced TNF secretion. Treatment with AR inhibitors did not affect basal levels of TNF in media containing 5.5 mM glucose mannitol or 3 OMG. Moreover high glucose induced TNF production was not prevented in untransfected cells or cells incubated with the transfection medium or transfection medium containing scrambled oligonucleotides. These observations attest to the specificity of TNF generation on AR activity. Taken together the signaling studies described above suggest that high glucose increases TNF secretion by increasing aldose reductase and phospholipase C. These processes stimulate PKC and then NF kB which in turn increases transcription of the TNF gene.

The growth factors are known to induce PGE2 production by activating inducible Cox 2 in colon cancer Chen et al. 2005 280 16 16354 59 but the mechanism is not well understood. Inhibition of AR significantly 90 prevented the production of PGE2 by Caco 2 cells induced by bFGF and PDGF . However sorbinil alone did not inhibit constitutive levels of PGE2. Since the non specificity of AR inhibitors could not be rigorously excluded parallel studies were performed by transfecting Caco 2 cells with antisense AR oligonucleotides that decreased AR protein expression by 95 inset and also the enzyme activity by 90 data not shown . In contrast to the cells transfected with scrambled oligonucleotides cells transfected with antisense AR displayed markedly attenuated PGE2 production upon stimulation with bFGF or PDGF . PGE2 generation in Cox 2 negative cells HCT 116 by growth factors was nonsignificant data not shown .

Since PGE2 is synthesized from its precursor arachidonic acid catalyzed by cyclooxygenases whether or not inhibition of AR prevents growth factor induced expression of Cox enzymes was examined. Treatment of Caco 2 cells with bFGF and PDGF significantly 60 80 increased Cox activity . Pre incubation with sorbinil abolished both bFGF and PDGF induced Cox activity. Since Cox activity is contributed by two isozymes constitutive Cox 1 and inducible Cox 2 the affect of AR inhibition on Cox 1 and Cox 2 isozymes was examined by Western blot analysis using specific antibodies. The levels of constitutive Cox 1 protein were not affected by growth factors or sorbinil whereas Cox 2 protein significantly increased and was attenuated by sorbinil .

The effect of AR inhibitors on growth factor induced NF kB activation was examined because it is known that redox sensitive transcription factor NF kB transcribes Cox 2 DNA Chen et al. 2005 280 16 16354 359 and it has been demonstrated that AR inhibition prevents growth factors and cytokine induced NF kB activation Ramana et al. 2002 277 35 32063 70 . Treatment of caco 2 cells with bFGF or PDGF significantly 2 3 fold increased the mRNA levels of Cox 2 and sorbinil prevented it by 55 65 suggesting that AR could regulate the transcriptional activation of Cox 2 DNA. Both bFGF and PDGF significantly 3 fold induced NF kB dependent reporter SEAP activation in Caco 2 cells and sorbinil caused 60 inhibition . However sorbinil alone did not affect the NF kB SEAP activity. Stimulation of Caco 2 cells with bFGF or PDGF resulted in a pronounced 10 fold activation of NF kB DNA binding activity as determined by colorimetric non radioactive NF kB p65 transcription assay method and sorbinil caused 70 inhibition. These results validate previous measurements of NF kB activity and substantiate that the specific activity observed in SEAP and colorimetric methods is due to NF kB activation. It is contemplated that inhibition of AR prevents growth factor induced activation of NF kB in Caco 2 cells which transcriptionally may activate Cox 2 expression.

Since PKC is an upstream kinase for the activation of NF kB and activation of PKC 2 has been implicated in colon carcinogenesis Gokmen Polar et al. 2001 61 4 1375 1381 the effect of growth factors on total PKC activity in Caco 2 cells in the absence and presence of AR inhibitor was examined. Stimulation with growth factors led to a significant 3 fold increase in membrane bound PKC activity and sorbinil significantly prevented it. However sorbinil by itself did not alter the total PKC activity in these cells. Both bFGF and PDGF activated PKC 2 in Caco 2 cells . bFGF caused maximal PKC phosphorylation at 2 h whereas PDGF caused maximal phosphorylation at 1 h and increase in PKC 2 phosphorylation was significantly 70 attenuated by sorbinil.

Since increased Cox 2 expression has been shown to facilitate colon cancer progression by stimulating cell proliferation and survival Tsujii et al. 1998 93 5 705 716 we next examined the role of AR in growth factors induced Caco 2 cell growth was examined. Treatment of Caco 2 cells with bFGF and PDGF for 24 h significantly 40 stimulated growth which was significantly attenuated 80 by sorbinil or by antisense ablation of AR indicating that AR is an obligatory mediator of growth factors induced colon cancer cell proliferation.

Since inhibition of AR attenuates growth factors induced Caco 2 cell proliferation the stage of cell cycle that is inhibited was determined. Treatment of cells with growth factors significantly induced synthetic S phase of cell cycle suggesting that the cells were undergoing proliferation. Inhibition of AR prevented growth factor induced accumulation of cells in S phase and the cells accumulated at G2 M phase and G1 phase suggesting that AR inhibition prevents synthetic phase of cell cycle which is an important stage required for cell growth.

Attenuation of Growth Factors Induced Upregulation of PGE2 Production by Inhibitors of Signaling Cascade for NF KB Activation.

In order to understand the role of NF kB in the growth factor induced upregulation of PGE2 inhibitors of PKC Calphostin c Cox 2 DUP697 reactive oxygen species scavenger N acetyl cysteine and NF kB SN50 were utilized. Growth factors caused a pronounced increase in the production of PGE2 and preincubation of Caco 2 cell with the above inhibitors attenuated indicating that signaling events that lead to activation of NF kB and its dependent Cox 2 expression are involved in the production of PGE2 . Further growth factors caused pronounced increase in ROS which was inhibited by sorbinil and tolrestat .

It has been demonstrated previously that AR is an excellent catalyst for the reduction of lipid peroxidation derived aldehydes such as FINE and their conjugates with glutathione to corresponding alcohols Bhatnagar et al. 1992 48 91 121 Ramana et al. 2000 39 12172 80 . Since it is contemplated that AR inhibition or ablation prevents growth factor induced expression of Cox 2 and production of PGE2 AR catalyzed reduction of lipid aldehydes involvement in this mechanism was determined. Treatment of cells with FINE or cell permeable esters of GS HNE or GS DHN resulted in increased PGE2 production and also Cox 2 expression Inhibition of AR by sorbinil significantly prevented the HNE and GS HNE induced Cox 2 expression and PGE2 production but had no effect on GS DHN induced expression of these inflammatory markers. These results indicate that growth factors induced mitogenic signaling in colon cancer cells could be mediated by the reduced form of lipid aldehyde glutathione conjugates catalyzed by AR.

Athymic nude nu nu mice were obtained from Harlan Indianapolis Ind. All animal experiments were carried out in accordance with a protocol approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC . Nine 20 weeks old athymic nu nu nude mice were divided into three groups of 3 animals Group 1 treated with PBS Group 2 treated with scrambled siRNA and Group 3 treated with aldose reductase siRNA . An aliquot of 2 10SW480 human colon adenocarcinoma cell suspensions in 100 l PBS was injected subcutaneously into one flank of each nu nu nude mouse. Animals were examined daily for signs of tumor growth. Treatment was administered when the tumor surface area exceeded 45 mm i.e. day 25. Treatment consisted of 200 g aldose reductase siRNA in 100 l PBS. Control groups were treated with 200 g 100 l scrambled siRNA or diluent PBS alone. Mice were treated on days 1 and 14. Tumors were measured in two dimensions using calipers over 40 days.

Results presented in clearly demonstrate that the tumor progression was completely arrested in the animals treated with an siRNA targeting aldose reductase AR siRNA whereas uncontrolled growth was observed in the control as well as in scrambled siRNA treated mice. None of the treatments interfered with the normal weight gain of animals during the experiments. are photographs of animals taken at 1 14 and 37 days. These striking findings indicate that AR inhibition completely halts the colon cancer progression without interfering with the normal weight gain of the animals after its administration.

Any patents or publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually incorporated by reference.

One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent therein. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in practicing the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims.

