---

title: Method and apparatus for providing activity-based map job
abstract: An approach is provided for validating crowd-sourced information. The approach includes processing and/or facilitating a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job, the map error data, or a combination thereof. The approach also includes determining one or more devices based, at least in part, on the at least one activity context. Further, the approach includes causing, at least in part, a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job, the map error data, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402189&OS=09402189&RS=09402189
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09402189
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140702
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services such as offering navigation and map services via various user devices. For example a user may utilize a mobile device or a navigation system in an automobile to search for or access location based services navigation information information about a point of interest POI or the like. However to provide accurate and useful information or services the maps or navigation systems have to be continuously updated to reflect any changes in the information utilized therein. For example a map database may be updated to reflect development a new road a new POI changes to an existing service center or the like. In addition to updating and verifying possible changes to information in a map database some of the information may be erroneous or incomplete and would need to be corrected completed and verified. For example information for a certain POI in a map database may include a physical address phone number Internet address related media items etc. wherein one or more of the information items may be erroneous or incomplete. However it is a challenging and resource intensive task for the service or content providers to assure a substantially updated and error free map database. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers are challenged to develop new mechanisms to effectively and efficiently validate crowd sourced information.

According to one embodiment a method comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. The method also comprises determining one or more devices based at least in part on the at least one activity context. Further the method comprises causing at least in part a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more devices based at least in part on the at least one activity context. Further the apparatus is caused to cause at least in part a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more devices based at least in part on the at least one activity context. Further the apparatus is caused to cause at least in part a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more devices based at least in part on the at least one activity context. Further the apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for validating crowd sourced information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability for validating crowd sourced information e.g. location or POI data across a variety of use cases and applications by maximizing data offerings by reliable sources and minimizing errant data updates. The system introduces an approach for integrated validation of crowd sourced data updates by managing the processes for aggregating data error reports received from users or service providers creating one or more data update tasks map jobs that users or a service providers may perform mechanisms for validating data updates that may be reported by various users or service providers updating the database with validated data and communicate update status and related information to users or service providers.

In one embodiment an aggregator may receive and aggregate feedback e.g. reports of various types of data errors that can originate from users or user devices that participate in providing the feedback. In one scenario an error report may be for an erroneous information item or a missing information item that is associated with an instance of data in a database. For example the data error may be associated with a data entry for a certain location in a map or a POI in the database. In one scenario a user device may utilize an application programming interface API e.g. a map feedback API MFAPI to interface with the aggregator e.g. in a platform . As noted a data error may be reported by a user device or by an internal database rule that can trigger a report of a data error. For example the error reports may include a report of a missing Internet link error associated with a POI a request to verify certain data in the same area as the POI an error report for location information of another POI in the same area or the like. In one embodiment the aggregator may use a map job MJ creation flow which may include an analysis of each of a plurality of error reports and substantially automatically grouping the reports into one or more MJs. In various scenarios the grouping of the errors may be based on an error type geo location associated with the error reporting user or user device validation threshold rating priority or the like. In one embodiment for a given MJ a validation threshold may be based on a number of agreeing submissions votes per user type that may render a MJ as being resolved. In one embodiment a MJ with its common attributes and a validation threshold may be packaged and submitted for distribution consideration and resolution.

In one embodiment at least one element of the system e.g. a distribution logic may create a list queue of one or more MJs that can be distributed to users or service providers for consideration or completion. For example the MJs may be distributed to navigation devices e.g. personal integrated in an automobile etc. mobile devices e.g. phones tablets laptops etc. or the like which may utilize an MFAPI or an application suitable for providing data updates. In one embodiment an MJ may be associated with a geo location attribute wherein the system may also determine a geo fence attribute for the MJ. In one scenario an MJ may indicate that for updating validating an error in the MJ a user user device is to be at the same geo location as indicated by the MJ or be within its geo fence attribute. In one embodiment an MJ is presented at a user device only when location information of the user device is substantially the same as the geo location attribute of the MJ or when the user device is located within the geo fence attribute e.g. within one mile of the MJ. In one embodiment MJs may be distributed e.g. pushed to one or more user devices wherein the MJs may be queued to be resolved. For example an MJ for a POI phone number error may be distributed to a web portal or a mobile device which may present a visual user interface prompt on a map application. In this example the user may interact resolve the MJ whenever he wishes so e.g. no requirement for the user to be in the area indicated by the MJ .

In one embodiment the system e.g. a validation threshold logic may monitor responses to an MJ that may have been received from various users or service providers. Further the response may be compared to each other in order to determine if they match. For example five responses to an MJ for a phone number of a certain POI are compared to see if the phone reported phone numbers match. In one scenario if the number of matching responses meet a validation threshold then the MJ may be considered resolved. For example the threshold may require that at least four reported phone numbers are to match in order to qualify as a validated resolution to the associated MJ. Upon a validated resolution of the MJ the MJ may be tagged as resolved or automatically closed and any related individual error reports may be closed as well. In one embodiment a notification of a resolution of a reported error may be communicated to one or more users who had reported the error. In one embodiment one or more users who provided information for resolving a reported error may be awarded with some credit points at one or more user accounts for example an account with the entity receiving the error correction an online social network account a service content provider account or the like. In one example the amount of awarded points may be based on user history reliability of reported solutions user trust level the type of corrected error priority of the corrected error or the like parameters.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including a map application social networking web browser content sharing multimedia applications augmented reality AR virtual reality VR user interface UI web client etc. In various embodiments the applications may be utilized to capture process submit analyze append tag etc. various location information media items POI information or the like.

In one embodiment a UE may be configured with a validation manager also collectively referred to as validation manager for reporting potential data errors associated with an application or a database e.g. a map application or database . Additionally the validation manager may be utilized to receive request or to respond to an MJ for example by capturing and providing information related to the MJ for validating crowd sourced information.

In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications validation manager one or more information items e.g. about a location POI etc. or the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system . In one example the validation manager may perform some or all of its tasks in conjunction with the applications or the DC module .

Additionally the applications may facilitate communication with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites a validation platform or with other components of the system directly or via a communication network . In addition or alternatively the UE has connectivity to the validation platform via the communication network for performing all or a portion of the validation of the crowd sourced information.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more service databases also collectively referred to as service database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like. In one embodiment a service provider may receive and process a request input from a user for determining status information associated with one or more elements present in one or more media items. In one embodiment the service provider may utilize various algorithms software applications modules hardware firmware and the like for processing recognizing detecting comparing and the like content items e.g. media items that may be associated with a user a user device or the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more content database also collectively referred to as content database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the content database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

In various embodiments the service providers and or the content providers may include and or have access to information associated with people POIs objects etc. For example the information may be available from various public private or government controlled databases which may be accessed via the communication network .

In one embodiment the validation platform may receive and process various information associated with a data error and resolution data for validating crowd sourced information. The validation platform functions and elements are discussed in relation to .

The system may also include user context data . The user context data may include user events user content items location based context data e.g. time stamps etc. . For example the context data contains environment data weather data traffic data event data commuter data etc. As an example the user contextual data of a user interested in technology or gadgets may be associated with electronics stores wireless hot spots in the city computer conventions forums of technologies science museums media laboratories etc. The service providers may collect assemble store update and or supply the context data and user context data. In one embodiment user context data for example user events may be extracted from calendars emails voice messages text messages blogs bulletin boards discussion forums geographic information systems and social network websites. In one embodiment user content items may be used to infer context data and may be retrieved from for instance personal photo albums media libraries playlists etc. In one embodiment a validation platform processes the context data or user context data of different formats and types including data derived from various forms of communication such as emails text messages voice messages calls video audio clips etc.

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device personal navigation device connected built in or standalone navigation device in a vehicle web surfing device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers the content providers or the validation platform may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the service providers the content providers and the validation platform may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

In one embodiment the data processing module may receive reports feedback of various types of data errors which may be by users or user devices that participate in providing the feedback. In one embodiment user information may be utilized to determine a geographical area associated with the user or his device. In some embodiments personal detail information is processed to determine reliability information associated with the user or the user device. In various scenarios the data errors may be processed to determine the types of error priority level frequency of the same error reported by other users the information that may be required to correct the error or the like. In one embodiment the processing module may determine location information associated with a report of data error for example by analyzing information or attributes associated with the data error. In one embodiment the processing module may operate in conjunction with the validation module for processing and analyzing resolution data received from one or more users in response to an MJ. In one embodiment the processing module may determine reliability information associated with a user reporting a data error or submitting resolution data in response to an MJ.

In one embodiment the aggregating module may use an MJ creation flow which may include an analysis of each of a plurality of error reports or the data from the processing module to create an MJ as well as generate activity context associated with the MJ. In one embodiment the activity context may be determined based on the data error report and one or more activities that a user or a user device should be associated with when providing feedback data for resolving a targeted MJ. In one embodiment the aggregating module may include in an MJ an attribute that a user device should be located near the location of a POI that is indicated in MJ.

In one embodiment the distribution module may create a list queue of MJs that can be distributed to users or service providers for consideration or resolution. For example the MJs may be distributed to navigation devices e.g. personal integrated in an automobile etc. mobile devices e.g. phones tablets laptops etc. or the like which may utilize an MFAPI or an application suitable for providing data updates. Further the MJs may be distributed based on the activity context device capability user schedule or the like. In one embodiment an MJ may include a geo fencing information for triggering a presentation of the at least one map job at the one or more devices. In one scenario an MJ may indicate that for updating validating an error in the MJ a user user device is to be at the same geo location as indicated by the MJ or be within its geo fence attribute. In one embodiment an MJ is presented at a user device only when location information of the user device is substantially the same as the geo location attribute of the MJ or when the user device is located within the geo fence attribute e.g. within one mile of the MJ. In one embodiment MJs may be distributed e.g. pushed to one or more user devices wherein the MJs may be queued to be resolved. For example an MJ for a POI phone number error may be distributed to a web portal or a mobile device which may present a visual user interface prompt on a map application.

In one embodiment the validation module may receive one or more responses from various users or service providers where the responses may include one or more information items for resolving an MJ. In one embodiment a map resolution data include at least in part image data video data audio data or a combination thereof to confirm that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment the resolution data may have been submitted via a validation manager application at a UE wherein the submission may have been substantially automatic via a UE or it may include user input.

In one embodiment the communication module can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the validation platform can receive and send information about data error reports MJs user queries service provider requests or the like.

The location module can determine a user s location for example via location information associated with a UE . The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory module and are available to the context processing module DC module validation platform service providers or to other entities of the system e.g. via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In various embodiments the sensors module can process sensor data from various sensors e.g. GPS accelerometer gyroscope thermometer etc. to determine environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. location information and various other information from a range sensors that may be available on one or more devices. For example the sensors module may detect conditions including humidity temperature geo location biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory module and sent to the context processing module and or to other entities of the system . In certain embodiments information collected from the DC module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In one embodiment the multimedia module may be utilized to capture various media items for example graphical encoded data representations images video audio and the like wherein the captured media may be submitted to one or more modules and applications of the UE a service provider and or a content provider for further processing storage sharing and the like. For example a captured image of a graphical encoded data representations may be submitted to a service provider and or the context processing module for analysis and or decoding. In one embodiment the multimedia module may also be utilized to process various media items for determining location information associated with a media content item. For example a media item may be a picture that may include images of people POIs objects buildings etc. In one embodiment the multimedia module may use one or more image processing algorithms for processing a media item and for identifying one or more elements present into media item.

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc. Input can be via one or more methods such as voice input textual input typed input typed touch screen input other touch enabled input etc.

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the service providers content providers validation platform or to other entities of the system .

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the DC module or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the validation platform service providers or to other entities of the system . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user an instance of data a value a content item an object a subject and the like. In certain embodiments the context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services POIs at various geo locations etc.

Referring to the process may being at step where the validation platform may process and or facilitate a processing of map error data to generate at least one map job and at least one activity context associated with the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the data processing module may receive reports feedback of various types of data errors that can originate from users or user devices that participate in providing the feedback. In one scenario an error report may be for an erroneous information item or a missing information item that is associated with an instance of data in a database. For example the data error may be associated with a data entry for a certain location in a map or a POI in the database. In one scenario a user device may utilize MFAPI to interface with the validation platform for providing the data error feedback. Also a data error may be reported by a user device or by an internal database rule that can trigger a report of a data error. For example the error reports may include a report of a missing Internet link error associated with a POI a request to verify certain data in the same area as the POI an error report for location information of another POI in the same area or the like. In one embodiment the aggregating module may use an MJ creation flow which may include an analysis of each of a plurality of error reports to create an MJ as well as generate activity context associated with the MJ. In one embodiment the activity context may be determined based on the data error report and one or more activities that a user or a user device should be associated with when providing feedback data for resolving a targeted MJ. In one embodiment the at least one activity context includes at least in part a mode of transport an activity associated with at least one user of at least one device reporting the map error data or a combination thereof. For example an MJ may include an attribute that a user device should be located near the location of a POI that is indicated in MJ. In one example the activity context may indicate that an MJ is to be presented to a user if the user is biking hiking driving running at a certain restaurant at dinner time en route to an airport travelling by train or the like. In various embodiments an MJ may be data for indoor or outdoor POIs and locations.

In step the validation platform may determine one or more devices based at least in part on the at least one activity context. In one embodiment a distribution module may create a list queue of MJs that can be distributed to users or service providers for consideration or resolution. For example the MJs may be distributed to navigation devices e.g. personal integrated in an automobile etc. mobile devices e.g. phones tablets laptops etc. or the like which may utilize an MFAPI or an application suitable for providing data updates. Further the MJs may be distributed based on the activity context. In one embodiment the at least one map job includes at least in part geo fencing information for triggering a presentation of the at least one map job at the one or more devices. In one scenario an MJ may indicate that for updating validating an error in the MJ a user user device is to be at the same geo location as indicated by the MJ or be within its geo fence attribute. In one embodiment an MJ is presented at a user device only when location information of the user device is substantially the same as the geo location attribute of the MJ or when the user device is located within the geo fence attribute e.g. within one mile of the MJ. In one embodiment MJs may be distributed e.g. pushed to one or more user devices wherein the MJs may be queued to be resolved. For example an MJ for a POI phone number error may be distributed to a web portal or a mobile device which may present a visual user interface prompt on a map application. In this example the user may interact resolve the MJ whenever he wishes so e.g. no requirement for the user to be in the area indicated by the MJ . For example an MJ may be associated with an indoor shopping center where its activity context may indicate that the MJ is to be presented at a user device if it is determined that the user is shopping at the shopping center for example via UE sensor data.

In step the validation platform may cause at least in part a transmission of the at least one map job to the one or more devices for resolving one or more map errors indicated in the at least one map job the map error data or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the distribution module may cause a communication of an MJ to one or more user devices one or more service providers e.g. web sites social network sites etc. wherein the communication may be effectuated via a short messaging service SMS an Internet link a prompt via one or more applications at a UE e.g. application validation manager etc. or the like. In one scenario an MJ may be tagged to indicate a priority level a bonus award level an expiration time or the like wherein a user may be able to readily see the tag for a timely quick response.

Referring to the process may being at step wherein the map error data includes a plurality of map error reports from a plurality of reporting devices the validation platform may cause at least in part a clustering of the plurality of map error reports based at least in part on the at least one activity context geo location data associated with the plurality of map error reports or a combination thereof to generate the at least map job. In one embodiment the aggregating module may use an MJ creation flow which may include an analysis of each of a plurality of error reports to automatically group the error reports into one or more MJs. In various scenarios the grouping of the error reports may be based on an error type an activity context a geo location associated with the error a reporting user or user device a validation threshold rating a priority level or the like.

In step the validation platform may receive map job resolution data from the one or more devices. In one embodiment the validation module may receive one or more responses from various users or service providers where the responses may include one or more information items for resolving an MJ. In one embodiment the map resolution data include at least in part image data video data audio data or a combination thereof to confirm that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment the resolution data may be submitted via a validation manager application at a UE wherein the submission may be substantially automatic via a UE or it may include user input. For example a navigation system may determine location information of a POI in an MJ and provide an automated response that includes the location information. In one scenario a user may interact with an MJ on a map application and provide information for resolving a missing data point associated with a POI in the MJ.

In step the validation platform may process and or facilitate a processing of the map job resolution data against at least one threshold logic to determine that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment the at least one threshold logic includes at least in part one or more rules one or more criteria or a combination thereof for determining that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment a plurality of resolution data instances may be compared to each other in order to determine if they match. For example 10 responses to an MJ for verifying a new hiking or bicycle trail are compared to see if information e.g. pictures address trail number etc. in the reported responses are similar or match. For example the threshold logic may indicate that at least four of the reported resolution data instances are to match in order to qualify as a validated resolution to the associated MJ. In one scenario if the number of matching responses meet a validation logic then the MJ may be considered resolved.

In step the validation platform may cause at least in part a signaling of the one or more devices that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment the signaling initiates a removal of the at least one map job from at least one job queue of the one or more devices. In one scenario upon a validated resolution of an MJ the MJ may be tagged as resolved or automatically closed as well as any related individual error reports may be closed. In one embodiment a notification of a resolution may be communicated to one or more users who had reported the error. For example the communication may be via an SMS message an Internet link a prompt via one or more applications at a UE e.g. application validation manager etc. or the like. In one embodiment one or more users who provided information for resolving a reported error may be awarded with some credit points at one or more user accounts for example an account with the entity receiving the error correction an online social network account a service content provider account or the like. In one example the amount of awarded points may be based on user history reliability of reported solutions user trust level the type of corrected error priority of the corrected error or the like parameters.

In step the validation platform may determine the threshold logic based at least in part on a map error type the at least one activity context trust level information associated with the one or more devices or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the validation module may utilize various information items for determining a threshold level which may be utilized in validating a resolution of an MJ. In various embodiments a threshold logic value level may be based on a sensitivity level of the required data for resolving an MJ priority level of an MJ reliability of past MJ responses provided by the user or user device reporting a new solution user trust level the type of data to be corrected or the like. For example an MJ requiring resolution data from inside a restaurant may require that a minimum number of resolution reports are to include a media item captured in the restaurant. In one example a high priority MJ may have a lower threshold logic since there may be no other data to compare with. In one example resolution data received from a user who has obtained a certain trust level with a service provider may be validated by itself or when compared with a minimum number of other resolution data.

In one embodiment a process may include various sub processes for processing and resolving data errors errors that may be received from a plurality of users or user devices that request or wish to participate in providing the feedback. In various examples the errors may be for an erroneous or a missing information item e.g. a POI phone number error a POI location error on a map a POI address error or the like. In one embodiment the errors may be received via MFAPI and input into an aggregator logic for processing. In one embodiment the aggregator may use a MJ creation flow that may include an analysis of each of the plurality of errors for grouping the errors into one or more MJs. In various scenarios the grouping of the errors may be based on an error type geo location associated with the error reporting user or user device validation threshold rating priority or the like. In this example a single MJ is created wherein the each error is listed along with one or more attributes e.g. latitude longitude threshold and type of error.

In one embodiment a device logic to determine which user devices a MJ should be distributed or made available to. For example the device or distribution logic may create a list queue of MJs that can be distributed to users or service providers for consideration or completion. In various scenarios an MJ may be pulled requested by a user device e.g. a mobile device or e.g. an in car navigation system or an MJ may be pushed distributed to a device or website e.g. a map creator . In one embodiment an MJ may be associated with a geo location attribute wherein the system may also determine a geo fence attribute for the MJ. In one scenario an MJ may indicate that for updating validating an error in the MJ a user user device is to be at the same geo location as indicated by the MJ or be within its geo fence attribute. In one embodiment an MJ is presented at a user device only when location information of the user device is substantially the same as the geo location attribute of the MJ or when the user device is located within the geo fence attribute e.g. within one mile of the MJ. In one embodiment MJs may be distributed e.g. pushed to one or more user devices wherein the MJs may be queued to be resolved.

In one embodiment a threshold validation logic may monitor or receive responses for resolving an MJ where the responses may be received from various users devices . In one embodiment the threshold logic may process and compare an MJ resolution data against a threshold logic to determine that the MJ has been resolved. In one embodiment threshold logic includes at least in part one or more rules one or more criteria or a combination thereof for determining that the at least one map job has been resolved. In one embodiment a plurality of resolution data instances may be compared to each other in order to determine if they match. In one embodiment the threshold logic may cause a communication to the one or more devices that the MJ has been resolved. In one embodiment the signaling initiates a removal of the MJ for one or more queues wherein the MJ may be tagged as resolved or the MJ and related individual error reports may be automatically closed. In one embodiment a notification of a resolution may be communicated to one or more users who had reported the error. For example the communication may be via an SMS message an Internet link a prompt via one or more applications at a UE e.g. application validation manager etc. or the like. Additionally the corrected updated data may be uploaded to a map database wherein the feedback data utilized in resolving the MJ may be stored at one or more data stores.

The processes described herein for validating crowd sourced information may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to validating crowd sourced information. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for validating crowd sourced information. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for validating crowd sourced information is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for validating crowd sourced information.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to validate crowd sourced information. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of validating crowd sourced information. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for validating crowd sourced information. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

