---

title: Topical activity monitor and identity collector system and method
abstract: A method for identifying respective networked devices in a social communications network, which networked devices communicate messages relevant to an article. The messages may include posts, shares, likes, votes, ranks, and other comments. A server of the social communications network maintains a respective identity (e.g., user name or handle) for each connected networked device, respectively, of the social communications network. The server includes an API for requests. The method includes receiving a search item from a data communications network, collecting articles related to the search item from each of the at least one source of articles of the data communications network, storing in a database, for each respective one of the article from the step of collecting, a respective unique identifier representing the article, comparing the search item to each respective unique identifier, respectively, of the database, to determine similarity of the respective unique identifier to the search item, compiling a result set of each respective unique identifier determined similar to the search item in the step of comparing, communicatively detecting the share count of the messages of the social communications network related to the result set, deriving a score based collectively on all of the share counts from the step of communicatively detecting, the score represents topical activity of networked devices of the social communications network for the search item, calling the API of the server intermediating communications among the networked devices of the social communications network, receiving the identities of the networked devices of the social communications network; and storing the identities in a database in a storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276974&OS=09276974&RS=09276974
owner: 
number: 09276974
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140221
---
The present application is a continuation in part and has benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 648 588 titled Topical Activity Monitor System and Method filed Oct. 10 2012 a conversion of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 546 211 filed Oct. 12 2011 which prior patent application is co pending and has at least one same inventor of the present application and which issued on Jan. 6 2015 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 930 384.

The invention generally relates to identification in computer network systems and more particularly relates to identification in the computer network systems based on network activity related to topics of articles and items published for access via the computer network systems.

Articles advertisements software files apps and other information and content items are often published i.e. made accessible to others on a computer network for access by users of computers communicatively connected to the network. User access or interaction with a respective article has at times been monitored to measure indications of user activity and interest in the item. User activity and interest as to any particular individual item has typically been monitored and measured only as to the specific individual item.

Certain analytics applications such as web analytics have collected data related to a particular website or website feature. As an example Google Analytics has provided summarized dashboard metrics profiling use of a particular website searchable through the Google Internet directory search service including summarized metrics such as website visits bounce rate average time on site referring or direct hits and similar information regarding a particular website of the service. Other web analytics providers such as Facebook Insights have made available summarized metrics profiling a particular social network Page of the service including summarized metrics such as numbers of posts to the Page total Likes by others relating to Page contents and numbers of posters for content associated with the Page contents. Other publicly available and private sources make available similar and other types of summarized metrics for individual websites pages blogs and the like.

Though conventional analytics have provided various website website page and website feature metrics the conventional analytics do not directly provide insight into particular topical contents or subjects of the websites pages or features. Of course topical content may be contained or addressed in any website page blog or the like such as in articles links software programs advertisements social media text and others. Because conventional analytics and schemes have been directed to visit and traffic measurement of individual websites and pages measurement of the popularity and attention to an idea theme or topic related to a shared or published object or item has not been possible. Such measurements of popularity and attention to an idea theme or topic however would significantly benefit businesses and persons interested in more holistic measure of topical awareness interest as opposed to the conventional analytics focus on measures associated only with visits traffic types or location and similar individualized aspects for an individual website page or similar item .

The summarized metrics available from conventional analytics provide overview measurement of the activity in the computer network system. Identification of the individual actors e.g. the communication devices and users of those devices contributing to activity in the computer network system may be available from the system. The social networking site Twitter for example provides an application programming interface API call that can return identifications of the individual actors in the social network system. The individual actors can be identified for example by username or user handle associated with the communications device and corresponding to its user. Although identification of individual actors is possible the identification itself has not had relevance to particular ideas themes and topics relevant to those individual actors.

It would therefore be a significant improvement in the art and technology to provide for topical activity monitoring for measure of user activity and interest in particular topic or category of articles generally and for targeting particular identities corresponding devices communicatively contributing to topical activity in a computer network system.

Embodiments of the invention include systems and methods for monitoring topical interest or activity in or with respect to a search item such as a word text image or other. Embodiments access and process share counts of messages e.g. posts shares likes votes ranks and other comments and combinations in social online networks regarding articles related to the search item. A score is processed providing a measure of interest or activity in the articles as a relative measure of interest or activity for the search item.

Embodiments of the invention include systems and methods for collecting identities of networked devices communicating in a social online network regarding an article relevant to a search item. The identities may include the user name or handle of the networked device of the social online network. A call is made to an API of a server of the social online network requesting the identities. The identities are collected and stored in storage.

An embodiment of the invention includes a method of collecting identities of networked devices communicating in a social communications network regarding a topical item. The method includes calling an application programming interface API of a server intermediating communications among the networked devices receiving the identities of the networked devices in the social communications network and storing the identities in a storage.

Another embodiment of the invention is a system for collecting identities of networked devices communicating in a social communications network regarding an article in which a server mediates communications in the social communications network and the server includes an application programming interface API . The system includes a processor data storage communicatively connected to the processor a call device communicatively connected to the processor for communicating with the API of the server to request the identities a receive device communicatively connected to the processor for capturing the identities in response to the request and a data handler communicatively connected to the processor and the data storage for indexing the identities relative to the article in the data storage.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method of monitoring topical activity and collecting identities of networked devices of a social communications network. The social communications network communicates related messages between networked devices and maintains a share count of the related messages. A data communications network includes at least one source of articles. A respective unique identity of each of the networked devices is maintained by a server having an API and intermediating communications among the networked devices. The method includes receiving a search item from a data communications network collecting articles related to the search item from each of the at least one source of articles of the data communications network storing in a database for each respective one of the article from the step of collecting a respective unique identifier representing the article comparing the search item to each respective unique identifier respectively of the database to determine similarity of the respective unique identifier to the search item compiling a result set of each respective unique identifier determined similar to the search item in the step of comparing communicatively detecting the share count of the messages of the social communications network related to the result set deriving a score based collectively on all of the share counts from the step of communicatively detecting the score represents topical activity of networked devices of the social communications network for the search item calling the API of the server intermediating communications among the networked devices of the social communications network receiving the identities of the networked devices of the social communications network and storing the identities in a database in a storage.

Another embodiment of the invention is a system for monitoring topical activity in a search item of a user device and collecting an identity of the user device. Messages including an article artifact representing an article are communicated over a communications network of networked devices. The communications network counts the messages to yield a share count of the messages for the communications network. A server mediates communications in the communications network. The user device has a unique identity in the communications network maintained by the server. The system includes a query receiver communicatively connected to the user device for communicatively receiving the search item from the user device a database communicatively connected to the query engine the database contains at least one indexed article representing the article a comparator communicatively connected to the query device and the database for determining any of the at least one indexed article of the database similar to the search item received by the query receiver a detector communicatively connected to the comparator and the communications network for accessing the communications network to obtain for each of the at least one indexed article determined by the comparator the share count of the messages of the communications network including the article artifact representing the indexed article of the article a score processor communicatively connected to the detector for deriving a score from the share count of the messages the score represents topical interest in the search item for the communications network a processor communicatively connected to the comparator for receiving an indicator that at least one indexed article of the database is similar to the search item data storage communicatively connected to the processor a call device communicatively connected to the processor for communicating with the API of the server to request the identity of the user device from the server a receive device communicatively connected to the processor for capturing the identity of the user device returned by the server and a data handler communicatively connected to the processor and the data storage for indexing the identity relative to the search item in the data storage.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method of monitoring topical activity among respective networked devices of each of a plurality of respective social communications networks. Each respective social communications network communicates respective related messages between the respective networked devices of the respective social communications network and maintains a respective share count of the respective related messages of the respective social communications network. A data communications network includes at least one source of articles. A respective unique identity of each of the networked devices is maintained by a respective server of the respective social communications network. The respective server has a respective API and intermediates communications among the respective networked devices of the respective social communications network. The method includes receiving a search item from a data communications network collecting articles related to the search item from each of the at least one source of articles of the data communications network storing in a database for each respective one of the article from the step of collecting a respective unique identifier representing the article comparing the search item to each respective unique identifier respectively of the database to determine similarity of the respective unique identifier to the search item compiling a result set of each respective unique identifier determined similar to the search item in the step of comparing communicatively detecting the respective share count of the respective related messages of each one of the plurality of respective social communications network related to the result set deriving a score based collectively on all of the respective share counts from the step of communicatively detecting the score represents topical activity of all of the respective networked devices of all of the plurality of respective social communications networks for the search item calling the respective API of the respective server intermediating communications among the respective networked devices of the respective social communications network for each of the respective social communications network receiving the respective identities of the respective networked devices of the respective social communications network for each of the respective social communications network and storing the respective identities for each of the respective social communications network in a database in a storage.

According to certain embodiments in a computer network system articles which include but are not limited to documents advertisements software social media text and other information content and other items each having one or more subject or topic are available for access by computers communicatively connected to the network system . These articles are hosted or accessible on websites servers or other host devices of the network for access by other devices communicatively connected to the network. The articles may be identified as having a particular topic or category. For example an article that is a press release may relate to a particular company or event of that company an article that is a social media post may relate to a particular company s stock or a consumer item e.g. coffee movie etc. an article that is software may be an application program e.g. what is commonly known as an app or other program or file representing an action processed by a microprocessor device to obtain a result an article that is an advertisement may relate to any of a wide variety of consumer business or other products or services offered and numerous other examples of articles are possible. An article can also be a link to another article such as a hyperlink or location or other link e.g. a social media like or share of a web pointer to a content or other information or item . These various articles are published e.g. broadly including but not limited to uploaded stored pushed or otherwise provided or delivered or made accessible over the network by a source device communicatively connected to the network for access by other devices communicatively connected to the network through network communications between the source and other devices.

Each article references or represents one or more particular topical item. According to embodiments a monitor detects the one or more particular topical item for an article that is published. The monitor is for example a computer communicatively connected to the network that identifies that the article is published i.e. made accessible to devices of the network by a publisher device communicatively connected to the network. The monitor or in certain alternatives devices in communicative connection with the monitor parses the article to determine the one or more particular topical item of the article.

The one or more particular topical item of the article as so determined by the monitor is employed by a search engine of or communicatively connected to the monitor to detect any additional articles published by the same or another publisher device of the network which additional articles have same or relative relationship to the one or more topical items. An activity detector is communicatively connected to the monitor and the search engine. The monitor and the search engine signal to the activity detector an identifier of all articles of the one or more topical item. The activity detector via communicative connection to the network detects devices and interactions of those devices with the articles over the network. Application programming interfaces APIs of the communication networks of devices communicatively connected to the network and or of elements providing communication connectivity in and among the networks are interfacingly accessed by the activity detector communicative to detect the devices and interactions of devices.

An output device is communicatively connected to the activity detector. The output device collects and processes detected device and interaction indicia from the activity detector and performs metrics analyses of the indicia. In certain embodiments the output device displays or otherwise reports the analyses and other relevant characteristics of the indicia such as one or more measurement level.

Generally embodiments employ online content that has relevance similarity or some other relationship to a particular topic such as of an article to obtain a measure of overall awareness of the topic as determined by interaction of users via networked user devices with articles relevant to the topic . This overall awareness of each particular topic is gauged by measuring activity relevant to articles corresponding to the topic on one or many communications networks for example the Internet generally social networks of interconnected communications devices corporate or enterprise networks and other similar communicative networks of communications devices operated by respective device users.

Access viewing downloading operating processing and other interaction with web based content for example is a proxy to public awareness measures regarding topics of the content. Sharing Liking Interactions via social online communities of communicatively connected devices and users of the devices of content the same or similar to a particular topic is determined and included in measures by the embodiments to provide assessment of public awareness of the particular topic.

Further according to certain embodiments actor communications devices communicating in a computer network system regarding a particular topic are identified. These actor communications devices are identified for example by unique user name or handle in the network system. Identifiers of the devices are collected from the computer network system and saved in a database in relation to the particular topic.

Referring to a system for monitoring topical activity represented by an article or item representing or referring to the article also referred to at times as the article for purpose of accessible in a communications network includes a monitor processing device having or communicatively connected to a database . As used in this disclosure the term article comprises a digital artifact of the network or of a device or element of or communicatively connected to the network which is usually processable or producible e.g. displayed edited output by a device communicatively connected to the network and includes but is not limited to any of file document advertisement software program app picture graphic object or content item capable of being digitally represented in a storage computer or communicated signal of or communicatively connected to the network or available for access by computers or devices connected to the network . Certain nonexclusive examples of such an article include a press release related to a particular company or event product or service of the company a publication that is a company website or social media website post related to a particular company s stock or a consumer item e.g. coffee movie or another product or service a software program script code or other program or file available from or interactive with a website or computer connected to the network representing an action processable by a microprocessor device to obtain a result e.g. including without limitation what is commonly known as an app advertisement for any of a wide variety of consumer business or other products or services offered or other notice or announcement available from the network as pop up push download or in any other manner and numerous other examples of articles obtainable via communicative connection to the network are possible e.g. flash programs cookies website statistics and others . Additionally in other nonexclusive examples an article can be or include a link to another distinct or related article such as a hyperlink identifier or locator or a location or other link or referral source e.g. a social media like or share of a web pointer to a content information or other item . These various articles are published e.g. broadly including but not limited to uploaded stored pushed or otherwise provided or delivered or made accessible via communications over the network by one or more source device communicatively connected to the network for access by another device communicatively connected to the network .

As nonexclusive examples source devices communicatively connected to the network may include but are not limited to one or more of a social network server an application server a search server a corporate private server an article storage a records server other processing and or communication devices and any combination of these. The social network server is any device communicatively connected to other devices of users with similar interests in any article e.g. Facebook Google LinkedIn and others for example via a website of the server . The application server is any device communicatively connected to other devices for access by the other devices to any article of software services of the server . The search server is any device communicatively connected to other devices for access to an Internet directory search service of the server for any article. The corporate private server is any device communicatively connected to other devices for access to a website download site or page e.g. ftp Rich Site Summary RSS feed link or other or other programming interface of the server that is includes or makes available for access any article. The article storage is any memory or non transient store of data in memory for or representing any article and communicatively connected to other devices. The records server is any device through which any memory or non transient store of articles or references including links in memory communicatively connects to other devices. For purposes of this disclosure all source devices including but not limited to the servers and and the storage may at times be referred to individually and collectively as such and at other times each of the social network server the application server the search server the corporate private server the article storage or the records server may be more specifically referenced for purposes of explanation. The source devices and each of them have similar characteristic in that each is a device communicatively connected to the network as a publisher of or source including referral for access by other devices to one or more article.

The network can be or include any telecommunication and or data network or combination of such networks whether public private or combinations of these including for example the Internet a local area network wide area network intranet public switched telephone network PSTN wireless e.g. cellular WiFi WLAN GPS infrared satellite radio frequency or other network satellite network other wired or wireless communication link or channel combination of links or channels or any combination of these. A non exclusive example of the communications network is the Internet including but not limited to any and every possible combination of a wired data link wireless cellular data link and other link connected to the Internet e.g. connected directly or indirectly connected through other links or networks . Pluralities of different ones and types of the source devices are contemplated where each source device communicatively connects to the network for communicative access by or via the monitoring processing device or element s thereof.

Referring to in conjunction with the monitor processing device of the system includes or communicatively connects to a processor and memory . The monitor processing device also includes or communicatively connects to a collector an indexer an activity detector a query engine and a reporter . The collector is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these of or communicatively connected to any one or more of a website computer interface device signal sampler device or sniffer RSS feed source or another source device of or communicatively connected to the network . The collector continuously intermittently or responsive to input as applicable in the embodiment searches and discovers articles available for access over the network from the source device . The collector may additionally but need not necessarily e.g. where another device or human intervention may be instead involved parse the articles for particular one or more topical item of each articles.

The indexer is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these communicatively connected to the database or similar storage and capable of processing indicia including topical item s parsed from the article. The indexer based on the one or more topical item of each article as determined from parse of the article designates a unique identifier for the article for example a number or numbers letter or letters other identifiers metatag or tags or combinations as desired in the embodiment and stores the identifier and additional indicia of the article. Indicia of the article can include for example any of a topical item title source or publisher publication time author summary tag s image list revision time other label or element representing the article or combination. These indicia are stored by the collector in the database or similar storage for access via the unique identifier and or via the corresponding indicia of the article.

The query engine is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these communicatively connected to the processor and memory . The query engine includes a website display of a search input request template not shown in detail in . The website display is served to a device communicatively connected to the network such as via the monitor processing device or a website server communicatively connected to the device . For example a website program is processed by the device or a connected website server and on request over the network from a computer or processing device of the network the device or server as applicable processes the website program and communicates the website display over the network for receipt processing and display by the requesting computer or device in a browser. The search template communicatively interfaces to the query engine for input of a search request via communication over the network for a select one or more article indexed and stored by the indexer .

Search requests that may be input to the query engine via the website display may be or include any article or portion of an article word number text programmed filter criteria of the website display and combinations. For example an article paragraph title source time since publication publication date hyperlink to article or link for article website identifier or locator e.g. URL portion or combination of these or other criteria is input to a block or form of the search template of the website display and the input is communicated over the network to the query engine . On receiving input sometimes referred to as search item the query engine processes the input including by comparing for level of relevancy of the input received by the query engine to indicia of articles which have been indexed and stored by the collector in the database or similar storage.

Input received by the query engine is measured for relevancy to indicia of articles by one or more relevancy measures. A non exclusive example of possible relevancy measures includes a semantic measure in which statistical processing determines a similarity of words of the input to the indicia of articles e.g. word or keyword match es . Other non exclusive examples of relevancy measures include more sophisticated document clustering techniques Boolean expression comparison natural language process latent semantic analysis statistical and probabilistic comparisons as well as publication source comparison comparison of publication or other temporal aspects popularity or rating measures of others e.g. starred or preferred selections financial or other proxy information relativity and others. If relevancy measure s for an indexed article or indicia of the article meet or exceed a threshold such as a programmed level or variable the query engine determines that the article is relevant for purposes of the particular request received by the query engine from the network . The one or more article as represented in the database or other storage so determined by the query engine to be relevant are assembled as a result set.

The result set of article s is accessed by the activity detector . The activity detector is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these as well as a processor and memory for example the processor and memory . The activity detector is communicatively connected to the network for communicating with at least one count device for example the social network server of a social online network provider for communicatively connected network devices. For convenience of explanation all count device s and all or portions of them are illustrated in as the social network server s . However any one or more count device e.g. one or pluralities of different social online network provider servers are possible in the embodiments and each count device may be distinct in whole or part from others of the count devices. For example the social network server i.e. a count device can be a server or other computer or network system of any of a wide variety of social online network providers such as Facebook Google LinkedIn Digg Pinterest Delicious Reddit and others and pluralities of these social network servers of the respective social online network providers are included in the embodiments. Each social network server includes or communicatively connects to a programmed interface or query system for example allowing communicative access over the network via a respective web page or link of the servers . The interface or query system such as a respective web page or link for each respective social network server is herein referred to as an API of the particular social online network of the server

Each social network server maintains a collected count share count representing the number of user devices of a social network or similar computer or communication network that have shared posted liked voted on or otherwise interacted with or in respect of also refererred to as messages referring to any related interactions of devices of the network particular URL s of a web page or pages accessible over the network . The share count is or includes measures ratings counts accessible by the activity detector from each respective server operating as count device through communications of the activity detector with the API for the server over the network . A nonexclusive example of one type of the share count includes the measures available by communicative access over the network to Facebook at an API of its server and similarly for other social online network servers . The activity detector communicating over the network inputs a desired query or data to a web page or link API of the server of the social online network. The server communicatively responds to the activity detector over the network such response being one or more measure i.e. share count for the particular URL and particular social online network. The activity detector continues polling additional ones of the servers of other social online networks via respective API of the applicable servers to collect similar measures i.e. share counts from each of the other servers for the same URL. The activity detector further collects similar measures i.e. share counts in this manner from the various servers of all of the social online networks for all other URLs of the result set. In certain embodiments additional types of share count such as shares posts likes voted on or otherwise i.e. messages that are related are additionally or alternately collected by the activity detector from same or different servers either in conjunction with the foregoing or in separate similar communicative operations between the activity detector and the various servers of the social online networks.

As a more specific example of operation of the activity detector regarding the Facebook social online network a URL of an article representing or corresponding to the iPhone 5 is included or represented in the result set from the query engine . The URL is for example http www.huffingtonpost.com neil katz iphone5 apple best selling gadget b1884724.html. On receiving the URL of the result set the activity detector communicatively inputs the URL over the network to the Facebook API of the applicable network server . The Facebook API is for example accessed by the activity detector from the server at the link http graph.facebook.com http www.huffingtonpost.com neil katz iphone5 apple best selling gadget b1884724.html. The server via the API responsively communicates the measure over the network to the activity detector for example the response is a structured JavaScript Object Notation JSON response such as 

In embodiments a share count can represent any number of types of social network interaction measures of a social online network and these may be similarly or differently named by each respective social online network e.g. one such network may refer to a measured interaction as liked and referred to by another such network as recommended rated voted on etc. and related messages are related by the network based on any of a wide variety of article artifacts according to the network common for the related messages e.g. same similar or related subject matter of the messages threads of the messages or otherwise . In the case of each social online network an API of the network is accessed by the activity detector for communicative input of URLs of the result set from the query engine . The social online network via its corresponding server of the API communicates the share count representing the interaction measure back to the activity detector .

Also in embodiments the activity detector can collect share counts at various points times during operations of the activity detector as desired for such operations. Share counts may be collected by the activity detector at a point that an initial or first search request is input to the query engine . On input of the search request the query engine determines a result set of articles then indexed and corresponding to the request. The result set of article s is accessed by the activity detector and the activity detector commences communicating with respective API s of servers of applicable social online networks to determine share counts in respect of the result set of articles. Additionally one each next search request resulting in any result set of any same article the activity detector again communicates with respective API s of servers of applicable social online networks to determine share counts for the particular same article represented by the result set as well as other articles represented by the result set . A running history of share counts collected by the activity detector for each indexed article is maintained for example in the database or other storage of or communicatively connected to the monitor processing device . In the event that the activity detector cannot communicatively connect to a server of any particular social online network at the time the query engine receives input of a search request the historical share count for the article and particular social online network is available for reporting and further processing by the monitor processing device . The historical share counts for the indexed articles are also available for analyzing changes in the rate of share counts and other statistics processed for reporting and other analysis by the monitor processing device such as for example for incorporation in processing of an overall awareness score and others.

In certain alternatives the server s of a social online network or networks can be directly accessed by the activity detector for example through proprietary API communicative connection separate from or included as subpart of the network or other link or connection between the activity detector and the applicable server . In other alternatives activity detector can communicatively obtain share counts and the like from an aggregator device such as a third party provider or data reseller server e.g. Gnip.com or other for social online networks or similar arrangement. In further alternatives the activity detector includes or communicatively connects to a device not shown in that indexes summarizes collects and or stores social network posts from a social online network server computer or device and the device is polled by the activity detector to obtain share counts.

The collection of share counts obtained by the activity detector responsive to a search request to the query engine and applicable result set of then indexed articles of the database is accessed by the reporter . The reporter is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these as well as a processor and memory for example the processor and memory . The reporter is communicatively connected to the network for communicating with user device s submitting search requests over the network . For example each user device is includes or communicatively connects to a computer laptop tablet smart phone or other device communicatively connected to the network and capable of communicating the search request to the query engine over the network .

The reporter using the share counts collected by the activity detector corresponding to a search request received by the query engine as input determines an overall score for the search request. The overall score also referred to as Resonance score represents a level of awareness for the particular topic of the search for which the search request is made. More particularly the Resonance score represents the volume of articles and corresponding share counts for those articles for the search request. A higher Resonance score e.g. a relatively high volume of articles and high share counts for those articles indicates a higher interest or awareness of the topic of the search request and a lower Resonance score e.g. a relatively lower volume of articles and lower share counts for those articles indicates a lower interest or awareness of the topic of the search request.

The reporter computes the Resonance score from input of all share counts collected by the activity detector for the article s of the result set of the query engine i.e. for the particular search request and programmed or designated bias benchmark. A nonexclusive example of the computation includes a weighted average result in which the respective share count for each article is multiplied by the bias benchmark for the either the article the share count or combination of these the results of the multiplication for each share count are summed and the resulting sum is divided by the total number of all share counts for all article s of the result set. The weighted average result having a percentage value is mapped by the reporter to a scale of 1 100 as the Resonance score e.g. if the weighted average result is 75 the Resonance score from mapping to the scale may be 75 . The bias benchmark for each article and or respective share counts for article can be related to the degree or extent of relevance or similarity of the article and or its share counts to the subject of the search request received by the query engine . Alternately or additionally benchmarks or respective ones of them can be or include weightings or other indicators of article source relative age or date of publication or the like overall share count in general e.g. log x value of totals and or other intrinsic or temporal factors or aspects of the respective article s the search request at issue or others. In addition to or in the alternative the reporter may but need not necessarily in all embodiments determine scores or measures for the search request which are in addition to the Resonance score.

The reporter compiles and formats the Resonance score and if applicable other scores or measures together in a report template. The report template can additionally include other items such as items representing history of share counts Resonance scores and others but need not necessarily do so in certain embodiments. The reporter delivers or makes available for access the report template containing the Resonance score for example the report template is accessible to requesting computer or device of the search request from a website download site or link data service or otherwise. In certain embodiments a website viewable through communication over the network in a browser of a network connected computer or device e.g. the computer or device making the search request to the query engine or another computer or device as applicable .

In operation the collector continuously intermittently on demand upon receipt of a search request by the query engine or otherwise as applicable detects articles having one or more topical item and which are accessible through communications over the network from source devices . As articles are detected by the collector the indexer designates a unique identifier for each article for example a number or numbers letter or letters other identifiers metatag or tags or combinations as desired in the embodiment . The indexer also stores in the database or other storage the identifier and additional indicia of the article for example any of a topical item title source or publisher publication time author summary tag s image list revision time other label or element representing the article or combination.

Upon receipt of a search request by the query engine such as from a network connected computer or device of a user the query engine searches the database for articles then indexed and identifies any items of the articles related to the search request. The relatedness can be measured by similarity measures such as keyword matching Boolean expressions natural language processing semantic processing such as latent semantic analysis document clustering techniques other statistical or probabilistic measures or others such as by comparison of source information publication or other temporal measures popularity measures relatedness to some proxy information or otherwise. For each indexed item representing an article of the database the query engine compares the item to a threshold to determine whether the relatedness or relevance level is sufficient for inclusion in a result set. Examples of possible thresholds criteria may include analysis of an associated URL internet web address source location or other portion link text image or content of an article or corresponding to the article . The query engine then compiles the result set of sufficiently related relevant items representing articles of the database for the activity detector .

The activity detector based on the result set from the query engine and for each item i.e. representing an article communicatively determines from one or more social online network sources and or other source an applicable share count for the article and the network source. The share count may be collected by the social online network source to represent a number of times that the particular article has been shared liked commented posted or as otherwise named. In any event the share count is a measure from a source that collects data representing interactions such as by users of the source or source network with the article . This share count of user interaction with the article is collected by the activity detector as an indicator of interest in the particular article as well as the various interactions that may be apply for the article .

The activity detector makes available to the reporter the share counts collected for each article of the result set from the query engine . The reporter based on the share counts and articles then determines the Resonance score for the particular search request. The reporter compiles and formats the Resonance score and if applicable other scores or measures and histories of share counts Resonance scores and other items together in a report template. The report template is accessible from the reporter for example the reporter delivers the report template through communications over the network to the user computer or device making the search request. A website of or communicatively connected to the monitor processing device can provide a browser display of a web page to user computers devices via the network for making search requests and receiving report templates of Resonance scores by the computers devices.

The Resonance score produced by the monitor processing device represents a measure of awareness or interest in a particular topic. In particular the search request that is input to the monitor processing device by a user computer device will have or include one or more topical item. The monitor processing device by collecting and analyzing interactivity with articles relevant to the search request can provide the Resonance score as an indication of interest or awareness of the relevant topical item. This Resonance score which may include and account for weightings or biases such as article age article source article similarity to the search request time elapsed since the share like comment was applied to the article or time elapsed relative to the article s publication value of the social online network providing the share count for the article and other factors is proxy for the topic of the query and its interest among those interacting with the topic.

As an example of the operation a search request that includes a technical product press release may have a semantically related content publication or other reference for included in or to an article that has been indexed by the monitor processing device from a technology blog. The related article may have some small number of share and like counts on several social online networks but have many shares on a more professionally oriented social online network such as LinkedIn where the business of the technology product considers that network s demographics more valuable than other social online networks. The monitor processing device collects all share counts and determines including any weighting bias or benchmark more influential the Resonance score. The user of the requesting computer or device receives the Resonance score as a proxy of interest level representing the overall awareness to the topic or idea based on analysis by the monitor processing device of interactions on social online networks and other sources.

Referring to a method of monitoring topical activity of communications devices communicatively connected to a communications network includes identifying a topic to measure idea word query article post shared content ad etc . For example the step of identifying may include monitoring a publication of an article an access to an article by a communications device or a characteristic of a communications network or network connected device s .

On identifying a topic to measure a step of finding web content news articles blog posts tweets etc searches and determines articles and or other information relevant similar to or having relationship with the topic. In the step searching is conducted according to a search method including but not limited to set theoretic models including Boolean semantic and keyword algebraic models such as vector space models and probabilistic models such as Bayesian etc. to determine relevant articles and information for the topic. For example searching of items interactions device or user identifiers articles posts and other interactive elements of a website network social network total Internet or other set or subset of interconnected communications devices and consequently users of the devices obtains one or more collection of articles and information for the topic.

For each article or information of the one or more collection a step of interfacing accesses sources of and devices and consequently device users interacting with the one or more collection of articles and information for the topic. By the step of interfacing detections of interactions are made for example interactions of get share comment like post etc are detected and accumulated. As an example by interfacing to social networks or other content sharing networks of communicating devices counts and other metrics are determinable for a wide variety of interactions within and between the devices and therefore users of devices of the social networks or other content sharing networks as to the topic based on aggregation for the collection of articles and information.

In a step of creating a topic awareness measure metrics and analyses are performed on the aggregate of counts and other metrics for the collection of articles and information relative to the topic. The step includes for example processing and creating individual per content article piece and summary all matching pieces indications as gauge of topic awareness. These indications as gauge of topic awareness can be further analyzed displayed reported and otherwise manipulated and handled.

In other aspects of the embodiments a variety of devices and processes can be employed as the elements components and steps to fetch counts and metrics interface access monitor and measure as may be required for particular networks devices articles and topics in any application. The embodiments can be combined with other elements and processes as well. For example articles published searched detected and monitored may be centrally stored or otherwise organized.

Referring to a method of monitoring topical activity represented by articles which may be or include a representation of or link to the article s accessible in a communications network based on interactions with the one or more article by communications devices via communications over the network includes receiving from the network a search request from a device communicatively connected to the network. Each article which may include but is not limited to a documents advertisement software program social media text or post image other information content or other items has one or more subject categorization or other topic and may be accessed over the network from a host device such as a website server or other device communicatively connected to the network. The search request may be or include any word text paragraph article title source time since publication publication date hyperlink to article or link for article website identifier or locator e.g. URL portion or combination of these or other data items. In certain nonexclusive examples a website program stored in non transient memory and processed by a processor serves a web page over the network to the device providing the search request the search request is input to a search template web page by the device and the search request is received from communication by the web page over the network in the step of receiving .

In a step of looking up the search request is compared to an index of articles stored in a database or other tangible medium of storage. The comparison in the step of looking up measures relevancy of the indexed data of the storage representing the articles to the search request. Possible relevancy measures include one or more of a semantic measure in which statistical processing determines a similarity of words of the input to the indicia of articles e.g. word or keyword match es a document clustering technique Boolean expression comparison a natural language process a latent semantic analysis statistical and probabilistic comparisons source comparisons comparisons of publication or other temporal aspects popularity or rating measures of others e.g. starred or preferred selections financial or proxy information relativity and others.

In a step of creating a result set is compiled of articles from the step of looking up . In the step articles having relevance to the search request as determined in the step of looking up are measured against a threshold such as a programmed level an input variable measure or other . Articles meeting the threshold are compiled in the step of creating such as by compiling the indexed articles together with a respective unique identifier for each such article indexed in the storage into the result set.

For each article of or represented in the result set one or more share count is collected in a step . Each share count represents an interactive measure recorded by a count device or system connected to the network which count device or system is communicatively accessible over the network to obtain the share count. The interactive measure represents the number or extent of device interactions by other devices i.e. user devices communicatively connected to the network with or in respect of the article. A particular but not exclusive example of such count device or system is a network connected server or other communicative device of a social online network provider such as Facebook Google LinkedIn Digg Pinterest Delicious Reddit and others which server or device is accessible over the network to obtain share counts. In general social online network provider makes available for access over the network one or more server having a programmed interface or query system. In the step the count device or system is communicatively accessed over the network such as via the programmed interface query system or other API e.g. a web page or link. A particular query is communicated over the network to the count device or system such as via the applicable API and the count device or system responds over the network by communicating the share count. In addition to the share count responsive to the particular query other data set of information may be communicated by the count device or system. If the share count is as subset of a larger data set of information the step includes parse of the larger data set to obtain the share count.

The share count is collected in the step for each article of or represented by the result set and from each count device or system accessed in such manner. One or any number or type of count device or system may be accessed in the step of collecting e.g. according to desired arrangement where each count device or system makes available for collection a respective share count in the step . As examples of the share count in certain embodiments the share count represents the number of user devices of a social online network or similar computer or communication network that have shared posted liked voted on or otherwise interacted with an article or in respect of particular URL s of a web page or pages of the article accessible over the network. However the share count can represent any of a wide variety of types of social network interaction measures of a social online network and these may be similarly or differently named by each respective social online network e.g. one such network may refer to a measured interaction as liked and referred to by another such network as recommended rated voted on etc. .

In a step of processing one or more score for example Resonance score is determined from all share counts collected in the step . In the case of a Resonance score the score represents a level of awareness for the particular topic of the search request because represents the volume of articles and corresponding share counts for those articles for the search request. A higher Resonance score e.g. a relatively high volume of articles and high share counts for those articles can indicate a higher interest or awareness of the topic of the search request and a lower Resonance score e.g. a relatively lower volume of articles and lower share counts for those articles can indicate a lower interest or awareness of the topic of the search request.

The score is processed in the step based on all share counts collected in the step for the articles represented by the result set from the step of creating . The processing may also include measures of bias or weighting such as programmed or designated benchmark measures to obtain the score. A nonexclusive example of the processing calculates a weighted average result in which for each particular article of the result set the respective share count collected in the step from each count device or system is multiplied by an applicable benchmark measure e.g. a weighted measure for the share count or relevant article or relevant count device or system as applicable the results of the multiplication for each share count are summed and the resulting sum is divided by the total number of all share counts for all articles of the result set. The weighted average result having a percentage value may in certain embodiments be mapped in the step of processing to a scale for example of 1 100 as the score.

The benchmark measure for each article and or respective share counts for the article can be related to the degree or extent of relevance or similarity of the article and or its share counts to the subject of the search request of the step of receiving . Alternately or additionally benchmark measures or respective ones of them can be or include weightings or other indicators of article source relative age or date of publication or the like overall share count in general e.g. log x value of totals and or other intrinsic or temporal factors or aspects of the respective article s the search request at issue or others. In addition to or in the alternative as applicable in the embodiment other scores or measures for the search request may be determined from the share counts in the step of processing .

A step of reporting compiles and formats a report template including or representing the score and if applicable other scores or measures . The report template can additionally include other items such as items representing history of share counts scores and others but need not necessarily do so. The report template or an artifact representing the template is communicated over the network or otherwise made available to the device communicating the search request. In certain nonexclusive examples of the step of reporting the report template is communicated over the network to the device of the search request from a website download site or link data service or otherwise such as for example a website display is communicated over the network to the device and represented in a browser of the device.

Articles are collected for indexing in a step . In the step articles accessible via communications over the network are collected. Collecting can include communicatively accessing the article a link or location of the article a summary of the article or another digital item representing the article from a source device connected to the network having storing or communicatively connected to the article or the digital item or otherwise capturing viewing or processing the article or digital item. The step of collecting can continuously intermittently on demand upon receipt of a search request in the step or otherwise as applicable detect articles having one or more topical item and which are accessible through communications over the network from source devices communicatively connected to the network. For example upon a first step of receiving as to a particular topical item of the search request collecting may proceed for articles accessible on the network that are relevant to the particular topical item of the search request as determined by processing of keyword matching Boolean expressions natural language processing semantic processing such as latent semantic analysis document clustering other statistics or probabilities or others and thereafter the step of collecting proceed initiate according to programmed rules input directive or otherwise as applicable in the embodiment.

In certain embodiments a step of identifying articles for collection in the step of collecting includes processing of rules for example fixed programmed or programmable rules representing type subject matter context similar features title and other items segments text images source and other features and aspects of articles can control the step of collecting . In addition or in the alternative an article or articles may be targeted for collection in the step by input to the method such as in the step of identifying or otherwise.

Collected articles of the step are indexed in a step . In the step of indexing a respective unique identifier is assigned for each article for example a number or numbers letter or letters other identifiers metatag or tags or combinations as desired in the embodiment . The article is parsed in the step to obtain metadata representing the article. The metadata representing the article may be for example any of a topical item title source or publisher publication time author summary tag s image list revision time other label or element representing the article or combination of these.

In a step of storing the unique identifier and metadata representing the article are stored for example in a database such as a relational or other database or other tangible medium for comparison in the step of looking up in response to search requests received in the step .

The embodiments provide a wide variety of applications including for example the embodiments and results thereof can be used as an indication of trending topics to determine advertising to determine most valuable web content for purposes of publication or distribution as an indicator to help create original content with higher potential as an indicator into topics for investment purposes as a way to monitor online awareness around a brand product good or service marketing message and numerous other possibilities variations alternatives additions and arrangements.

Referring to according to certain embodiments of a system respective actor devices communicating in a computer network system are identified by a collector . The computer network system includes one or more subset of intercommunicative devices for example three subnetworks and respectively for communications of actor devices and respectively. More or fewer of the subnetworks and more or fewer actor devices of each subnetwork are possible. The network system and consequently each subnetwork is for example a packet switched network such as the Internet. In each subnetwork respectively the corresponding actor devices respectively communicating in the subnetwork respectively are identifiable in the subnetwork respectively such as by a respective user name or handle of each actor device respectively.

Each subnetwork respectively is controlled by a server respectively. The server or as applicable for the subnetwork or respectively may be or include one or more computing device capable of mediating communications among applicable actor devices respectively. For example the server mediates communications of actor devices of subnetwork the server mediates communications of actor devices of subnetwork and the server mediates communications of the actor devices of subnetwork . As will be understood although each subnetwork is illustrated as a distinct subset of the network system communications may follow disparate paths i.e. packet switched paths in the network system . The illustrated subsets of subnetworks are therefore merely aids for description and should not be interpreted as necessarily distinct from the network system although one or more subnetwork could be distinct from other subnetwork s .

Each subnetwork respectively is a restricted access network controlled by the server respectively. In each respective subnetwork and the server and respectively limits and or permits access by applicable actor devices and respectively. For example the server permits communications by actor devices the server permits communications by actor devices and the server permits communications by actor devices . The server respectively of each such subnetwork respectively may require registration and use of a user name password and or similar key for any actor devices communicatively connected to the subnetwork . Each actor device is a wired or wireless communications device for example any of a data enabled cell phone laptop computer tablet desktop computer or other communications device. The actor device respectively has communicative elements and capability to communicate over the network system .

In a non exclusive example the subnetworks respectively are each social networks of communications among respective actor devices . The server and respectively executes computer instructions e.g. social network computer program code stored in non transitory media of or communicatively connected to the server or to perform functions of a social network service. The servers subnetworks and actor devices are exemplary and more or fewer numbers and types are possible. Examples of the subnetworks include any of Facebook Twitter or other social or communicative network. Although a social network is one example each subnetwork may be any other communications network of one or pluralities of respective actor communications devices.

The collector includes one or more processing device and one or more data storage . The collector executes computer instructions e.g. program code stored in the data storage and or includes circuits to communicate with each server respectively. Each server includes one or more respective interface device not shown in detail in respectively. A non exclusive example of the interface device respectively is an application programming interface API stored in memory and processed by the corresponding server respectively of each subnetwork respectively. The collector communicatively accesses the server and respectively to determine identities e.g. user name or handle of each actor device and respectively of the particular subnetwork and

Any actor device contributing to communicative activity in the corresponding social network i.e. the subnetwork or for the actor device has a respective actor identifier in the subnetwork of the social network which actor identifier may represent particular user of the respective actor device . Each actor identifier thus represents a corresponding actor device or user of the actor device communicating in the social network. These respective actor identifiers are known to the respective server of each social network of the network system and are ascertained by the collector from the server of each social network.

In operation the collector via operations of the processing device based on computer program instructions and or circuits communicates with the respective APIs of the servers and of the subnetworks and . The collector communicates to the APIs by specific calls required by the APIs to request identifiers of each actor device actively communicating in the subnetwork and e.g. each social network . The collector retrieves the identifiers from each server and . The collector saves the identifiers in storage .

Referring to in conjunction with and a system for determining identities of actor devices in a computer network system of one or more social network includes an identifier computer such as for example the collector of communicatively connected to the network system . One or more social network server is communicatively connected to the network system . Each social network server maintains in respective memory a user name or handle of each actor device respectively representing such actor device for example an identity of the then user of the actor device actively accessing the social network server as applicable via communicating in the network system i.e. within the subnetwork or social network or of the corresponding server or . For example in the actor devices and actively communicate in the network system with the social network server and the memory stores the identity of the actor device and the identity of the actor device and the actor devices and actively communicate in the network system with the social network server and the memory stores the identity or the actor device and the identity of the actor device and so forth for each social network server and respective actor devices which communicate therewith.

Each social network server respectively includes a respective interface device . The respective interface device or is for example an application programming interface API stored in memory and processed by the corresponding social network server or respectively. Alternately the interface device respectively is any of a direct connection distinct from the network system of any social network server respectively to the identifier computer or the social network server itself if the social network server as applicable includes elements of the identifier computer .

The identifier computer includes a communication unit processed by a processor . The communication unit is communicatively connected to each interface device over the network system . The communication unit is includes or communicatively connects to one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these communicatively connected to a database or similar storage. The processor is or includes one or more microprocessor computer processed software stored in memory or combination of these. The identifier computer may also include or communicatively connect to memory such as random access memory or other.

The communication unit includes or communicatively connects to a call device a receive device and a data handler . The call device the receive device and the data handler may be unitary as part of the communication unit or distinct devices of the communication unit or separate devices in communicative connection therewith in any varied combination. The call device the receive device and the data handler respectively each is or includes one or more hardware device software program stored in memory or combination of these respectively of or communicatively connected to any one or more API of each respective one of the servers 

In certain alternatives the identifier computer includes or communicatively connects to a monitor processing device and database of or the identifier computer is included in the monitor processing device or the monitor processing device includes the identifier computer . In such embodiments the identifier computer via the communication unit determines from the servers respectively respective identifiers of actor devices actively communicating in the subnetwork social network or of the corresponding server or . For example identifiers of actor devices whose communicative activity is determined for contribution to a score or measure such as share counts and the Resonance score as described with respect to are determined and recorded by the identifier computer .

In operation the identifier computer communicates with the APIs of the servers to retrieve identities i.e. user names or handles of the actor devices active in communications with the servers within the corresponding social networks . For each server and the processor via hardware software or combinations of the identifier computer directs the communication unit to communicate a respective select call to the API of the server. This select call to the API receives a response from the server that represents the identities of actor devices which are active in communicating in the social network of the server. The actor devices of interest may be for example those which through communicative activity in the social network contribute to share counts for calculation of the Resonance score or others. The identifier computer receives the response from the server based on the select call. The identifier computer then stores the identities in the database according to relevant criteria of actor device communication timing topical activity and or others.

Referring to a method of collecting identities of actor devices in social networks includes a step of calling a social network server by a select call to an API of the server. The select call of the step corresponds to the API and represents a request for identities of actor devices selectively communicating in the social network. A step of receiving identities retrieves identity e.g. user name or handle of each actor device selectively communicating in the social network. In the step the identities are unique to the social network and represent each of the particular actor devices selectively communicating in the network. The select communications targeted for actor devices may include for example communications related to a particular topic or item of which the actor devices perform relevant communications in the network. In a step the identifiers from the step of receiving identities are stored in a database or other storage.

Referring to a method of collecting identities of actor devices includes the steps and of in which articles are collected indexed and identified and result sets for actor device interactions corresponding to the articles are obtained. From the result sets created in the step the steps and are performed by an identifier computer to call each social network of the result set and obtain and store identities of actor devices of the social networks which have interaction e.g. specific communications in the social network with the topic of articles.

Referring to a method of monitoring topical activity represented by communicative activity regarding articles in a social network and collecting identities of actor devices in the social network contributing communicative activity includes the steps and described above with respect to and also the steps and described above with respect to . In the method requests received by the social network server in the step are looked up in an index in the step . Articles relevant to the requests are collected indexed with respect to topic stored and identified in the steps respectively. Result sets of articles from the step are created in the step . Communicative activity of actor devices detected by the social network via the social network server is collected in the step . The same process is repeated for one or more social networks. Based on the collected share counts of the step the Resonance score is calculated in the step and reported in the step .

The method further includes the step of calling the API of the social network by a select call representing a request for identities of actor devices in the social network contributing communicative activity regarding the article s corresponding to the collected share counts. A response to the step is received in the step the response represents the identities of the particular actor devices contributing communicative activity. The identities of the actor devices are stored in the step .

According to certain embodiments identities of actor devices obtained from social or other networks are accessed and employed to target advertising on the networks to specify groups of identities to send email promotions and or for other purposes. Segments or classifications of identities are possible for example specific segment or classification may be ordered based on actor communicative activity in respect of articles items or other interests.

In the foregoing the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate however that various modifications substitutions deletions and additions can be made without departing from the scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications substitutions deletions and additions are intended to be included within the scope of the invention. Any benefits advantages or solutions to problems that may have been described above with regard to specific embodiments as well as device s connection s step s and element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element.

