---

title: Calcareous deposit wipe-test apparatus and method
abstract: A calcareous deposit wipe-test apparatus and method. The apparatus includes a motor, frame, with the motor and the replaceable cartridge attached to the frame. The replaceable cartridge includes a calcareous deposit roller for growing calcareous deposits thereon, which typically cause abrasive wear. The wipe-test apparatus also includes a trough which is filled with seawater. The frame positioned in the trough, and shaped so that when positioned in the trough, the motor is perched above in a dry location and the replaceable cartridge is below, at least partially submerged so that the calcareous deposit roller simulates shipboard wet operating conditions. The apparatus and method evaluates the removal of the calcareous deposits under shipboard working conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417155&OS=09417155&RS=09417155
owner: The United State of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09417155
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a calcareous deposit wipe test apparatus and method in particular an apparatus including a motor frame and removable cartridge having a calcareous deposit roller for growing calcareous deposits thereon which typically cause abrasive wear. The apparatus and method evaluates the removal of the calcareous deposits under shipboard working conditions.

Calcareous deposits form due to Impressed Current Cathodic Protection systems used to prevent corrosion of Navy vessel hulls and shafting. The deposits are a crystalline formation of calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide that form due to a local PH change on the protected surface. The area of concern is the section of shaft that contacts seawater lubricated propulsion bearings. During periods of inactivity while in port the shaft may sit stationary for long periods allowing the deposits to accumulate. The deposits are thought to cause abrasive wear when large amounts are present and the shaft is actuated to turn at lower speeds.

Current shipboard practices vary widely for attempting to minimize the amount of calcareous deposits that build up on propulsion shafts. Currently there is no known test apparatus to test the significance of deposits on bearing and shaft life. Little to no scientific evidence is available to determine if the wiping of deposits is successful and if the operation is completed often enough. Thus it is desired to have an apparatus and method for evaluating the effects of calcareous deposits on ship propulsion shafts and also possible arrangements and methods for removing these deposits.

In one aspect the invention a calcareous deposit wipe test apparatus for testing the removal of calcareous deposits. In this aspect the apparatus includes a motor having a motor drive shaft for transmitting rotational energy and a replaceable cartridge having a cartridge shaft a calcareous deposit roller for growing calcareous deposits thereon and a spring loaded bearing coupon in biased contact with the calcareous deposit roller for removing the calcareous deposits thereon. According to the invention the calcareous deposit wipe test apparatus also includes a frame and a transmission assembly extending through the frame connected to each of the motor drive shaft and the cartridge shaft for transmitting rotational energy from the motor shaft to the cartridge shaft. This results in the rotating of the calcareous deposit roller against the spring loaded bearing coupon for removing the calcareous deposits.

In another aspect the invention is a calcareous deposit wipe test evaluation method. The method includes the providing of a test apparatus. In this aspect the testing apparatus is provided with a motor having a motor drive shaft for transmitting rotational energy. The test apparatus is also provided with a plurality of replaceable cartridges each of the plurality of cartridges having a cartridge shaft a calcareous deposit roller for growing calcareous deposits thereon and a spring loaded bearing coupon in biased contact with the calcareous deposit roller for removing the calcareous deposits thereon. The test apparatus is also provided with a frame wherein one of the plurality of replaceable cartridges is attached to the frame. The test apparatus also has a transmission assembly extending through the frame connected to each of the motor drive shaft and the cartridge shaft of the attached replaceable cartridge for transmitting rotational energy from the motor shaft to the cartridge shaft. The test apparatus may also include a trough with seawater therein wherein the frame is positioned within the trough. In this aspect the method also includes the growing of calcareous deposits on the calcareous deposit rollers of the plurality of replaceable cartridges by applying an electrical current to the respective calcareous deposit roller. The method also includes after deposits are formed on the calcareous deposit rollers activating the motor for a predetermined time which via the transmission assembly transmits rotational energy to the calcareous deposit roller of the attached replaceable cartridge the attached calcareous deposit roller rubbing against the spring loaded bearing coupon thereby removing the calcareous deposits thereon. In this aspect the method also includes the evaluating of the system and making adjustments during and after the period in which the motor is activated.

As outlined throughout the written description the calcareous deposit wipe test apparatus is a small scale machine used for land based laboratory testing. The apparatus is analogous to a ship propulsion shaft journal and support bearing and is used to test calcareous wiping methodology. As outlined below the replaceable cartridge includes a bearing mounted roller the roller allowing for calcareous deposit growth thereon. The replaceable cartridge also having a wiping member for wiping off the calcareous deposit growth the process performed under actual shaft pressure conditions. The integrated replaceable cartridge and mechanical turning system provides interchangeable testing at nominal equivalent propulsion shaft turning gear speeds on multiple materials directed to water lubricated bearings without any disassembly.

The transmission assembly operably connects the motor drive shaft to the cartridge shaft . As shown in also in the transmission assembly includes a first sprocket mounted on the motor drive shaft . The transmission assembly also includes a second sprocket mounted on a transmission shaft which is connected to the cartridge shaft via the shaft coupling . As shown the transmission shaft is supported at one end by sleeve bearing and it extends into the horizontally extending portion of the frame .

As shown the transmission shaft is connected to the carriage shaft via the sleeve coupling forming a continuous shaft body that is rotatably mounted via the sleeve bearing at one end and sleeve bearing at the other end. The continuous shaft body made up of the transmission shaft and the cartridge shaft extends within and substantially parallel to the horizontally extending portion of the substantially L shaped chassis . also shows the transmission assembly having a looped chain attached to each of the first sprocket and the second sprocket transmitting rotational energy from the motor drive shaft above to the transmission and cartridge shafts below. As outlined below during evaluation rotational energy from the motor is used to rotate and wipe a calcareous deposit carrying roller that is mounted on the cartridge shaft .

As stated above show the replaceable cartridge with a portion of the housing removed. The replaceable cartridge includes the cartridge shaft positioned within a sleeve bearing . also shows a calcareous deposit roller mounted on the shaft . The calcareous deposit roller is for growing calcareous deposits thereon the removal of which is evaluated in settings simulating real working conditions. Also shown is bearing coupon which presses down on the roller . The downward pressing force exerted by the bearing coupon on the roller is due to the biasing assembly within the replaceable cartridge . As shown the biasing assembly includes a load spring having a known spring constant. One end of the load spring contacts the bearing coupon . The force of the load spring may be adjusted by a load screw that is connected to the spring. As shown the load screw may extend through top protrusion . As shown the biasing arrangement is wedged between side protrusions and top protrusion which helps to stabilize the arrangement and also contributes to the compact nature of the overall arrangement.

As stated above the calcareous deposit wipe test apparatus as described above with respect to is a small scale machine used for land based laboratory testing. The apparatus is analogous to a ship propulsion shaft journal and support bearing and is used to simulate and evaluate the removal wiping of calcareous deposits from the shaft of a ship. According to the invention the calcareous deposit wipe test evaluation method is performed as outlined below.

Step is the growing of calcareous deposits on the respective calcareous deposit roller of the one or more replaceable cartridges . Calcareous deposits may be formed by immersing the respective one or more cartridges in seawater with the respective roller attached to an electrical current source to grow the calcareous deposits on the surface of the roller . As stated above seawater as defined herein refers to any water naturally occurring or treated having a known chemical composition range consistent with that of naturally occurring seawater. It should also be noted that the seawater for the growth of the deposits may be provided in another container not shown .

According to an embodiment of the invention step i.e. the forming of the calcareous deposits may be performed on only one replaceable cartridge by attaching the electrical current sources to roller . The bearing coupon is loaded during the growing process to form an edge of calcareous growth where the roller starts to contact the bearing coupon . The calcareous deposits may be formed on the roller when the replaceable cartridge is attached to the apparatus as shown in . Alternatively the calcareous deposits may be formed when the cartridge is unattached and is attached afterwards to the frame after the deposits are grown. As stated above the clamp on shaft coupling and the bolts or other attachment members facilitate the attachment of the replaceable cartridge to the frame .

According to an embodiment of the invention step i.e. the forming of the calcareous deposits may be performed on a plurality of replaceable cartridges by attaching the electrical current sources to the respective rollers . Utilizing multiple cartridges allows calcareous deposits to be grown simultaneously after which any of the cartridges may be attached to the apparatus so that evaluations may proceed. As stated above each bearing coupon is loaded during the growing process to form an edge of calcareous growth where the roller starts to contact the bearing coupon . A desired one of the plurality of replaceable cartridges is attached to the frame after the deposit is grown. As stated above the clamp on shaft coupling and the bolts or other attachment members facilitate the attachment of the replaceable cartridge to the frame .

Step is the activation of the motor for a predetermined period of time. The motor powers the calcareous deposit roller having the calcareous deposits thereon. As shown in the motor is perched above in a dry location whereas the cartridge is at least partially submerged with the calcareous deposit roller fully submerged in the water in the trough mimicking actual conditions. Rotational energy from the motor drive shaft is transmitted to the cartridge shaft via the transmission assembly . As outlined above the transmission assembly includes first and second sprockets mounted on the respective shafts and a looped chain attached to each of the first and second sprockets thereby transmitting rotational energy from the motor drive shaft above to the submerged cartridge shaft below. As the roller is rotated the coupon presses down on the roller thereby wiping off calcareous deposition from the roller .

Step is the system evaluation and adjustments stage. Here the workings of the elements of the test apparatus are evaluated during and after the period in which the deposits are wiped off the roller . The process is evaluated to determine if adjustments can be made. For example the force between the bearing coupon and the roller may be adjusted to optimize the wiping of the deposits. Here the load screw may be used to adjust the compression in the spring which has a known spring force constant. The spring force constant is used to apply the correct load by measuring the compression length through a slot not shown in the housing . The evaluation may be performed for a predetermined amount of turns. Also depending on the initial effectiveness of the deposit removal the amount of turns and the growth time can be varied to determine the full scale wipe procedure.

At step a determination is made as to whether to end the entire process i.e. or whether to conduct more evaluations. If the results from the evaluation and adjustments step are satisfactory then the entire process may be terminated. Alternatively a decision may be made to conduct more testing then a determination step is executed. At step it is determined as to whether to repeat the entire process i.e. restarting at step . Alternatively evaluations may be continued by replacing one replaceable cassette with another replaceable cassette having deposits thereon after which the process from step onwards are repeated.

It should be noted that represents the broad steps associated with the deposit wipe test evaluation method . As outlined above each step illustrated in may include a plurality of sub steps. These sub steps are not represented in the flow chart of but are outlined in the written description.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

