---

title: Hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods in optical networks
abstract: A hitless modulation change method at a node in an optical network includes determining that a modulation change is warranted for an optical modem in the node, the optical modem configured to communicate over an optical link; determining an impact of the modulation change on the optical link and associated underlying connections thereon; causing changes in a data plane for the associated underlying connections, prior to performing the modulation change; and causing the modulation change subsequent to accommodating the associated underlying connections in the data plane, thereby minimizing interruptions of the associated underlying connections due to the modulation change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09455788&OS=09455788&RS=09455788
owner: Ciena Corporation
number: 09455788
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141106
---
The present non provisional patent application patent is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 176 908 filed on Feb. 10 2014 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING EXCESS OPTICAL CAPACITY AND MARGIN IN OPTICAL NETWORKS the contents of which are incorporated in full by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to optical networking. More particularly the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for hitless modulation scheme changes in optical networks.

Fiber optic communication networks are experiencing rapidly increasing growth in capacity. This capacity growth is reflected by individual channel data rates scaling from 10 Gbps gigabits per second to 40 Gbps to developing 100 Gbps and to future projections of 1000 Gbps channels and beyond. The capacity growth is also reflected by increasing total channel count and or optical spectrum carried within an optical fiber. In the past optical channels were deployed with a fixed capacity in terms of bandwidth as well as a fixed amount of overhead for forward error correction FEC . For example in a conventional system deployment channels are deployed at 10 Gbps or 40 Gbps plus associated overhead for FEC . These channels are designed to provide fixed data throughput capacity of 10 Gbps or 40 Gbps. Moreover the performance limits of these channels are established assuming that the system is operating at full capacity with all the optical channels present. The first in channels will operate in much more benign condition and have significant extra margin available. This margin is not utilized until much later in the life cycle of the system. For example a single wavelength deployed on a new optical line system could have more than 10 dB of excess margin that is not currently utilized without adding new hardware . This un used margin can be considered wasted and forcing the system to operate in a non cost effective way. If this extra margin could be utilized even in a temporary way to enhance data throughput of the modem for example the economics of the system would be significantly improved.

Of note next generation optical modems are equipped with the capability to support variable data throughput applications. Moreover this capability will be provisionable. Therefore depending on the opportunity it would be advantageous to provision a modem at a higher data throughput when extra margin is available on new and low channel count deployments usage of these next generation modem will allow to mine and use this excess margin and wasted capacity without requiring additional hardware. However this excess margin will disappear as the channel counts approach full fill. It would be advantageous to have systems and methods for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks in view of the above.

Fiber optic communication networks today are pushing up against the Shannon Limit within the non linear tolerance of the transponder technology currently in use. There is great interest in providing the best spectral efficiency possible which is leading to the development of adaptive modulation techniques applied to fiber optic transmission. In wireless and Digital Subscriber Loop DSL technology it is quite common to use adaptive modulation schemes which adapt to link conditions e.g. High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and Asymmetric digital subscriber line ADSL2 . In optical some latest generation transponders on the market are capable of changing modulation scheme e.g. Ciena s WaveLogic3 family. Transponders in the future will be able to change modulation scheme more quickly and may be optimized to do so. However today s systems cannot take advantage of these in a hitless manner.

Although wireless and DSL technologies can react to channel conditions using adaptive modulation the system constraints in fiber optic communication networks would not allow similar system techniques to work. In particular there are two assumptions built into the algorithms used in these systems for wireless and DSL technologies. First the data which is transported in both cases wireless and DSL technologies is bursty in nature and the actual user data throughput vs. actual bit rate can be controlled. In wireless communication the application layer is visible to the controller. In other words the systems are designed to allow for periodic optimization where the resulting changes can be in modulation scheme. Optical transport networks are the core of the data network and as such see a rather continuous flow of traffic due to multiple levels of multiplexing and grooming. There are many sources of this data and the volume is also very high so hold offs on data transmission become too complex and or expensive to implement.

Second another simplifying condition is that the transmission time distance from modulator to demodulator is small compared to the baud rate of the transmission. In practical terms for example for HSDPA networks in a 5 km cell and the baud rate of 5 Mbps there are 8.3 baud in flight at any time. In an optical network using 100 Gbps over 2000 km there is 440 million baud in flight. This nearly 8 orders of magnitude difference represent a key difference in how to perform such changes. Although there are some transponder on the market today which can change the operational state to accommodate a different spectral efficiency which may be allowed by the link conditions these cause some length of outage which can only be managed out of service or as a failure in the system both of which have negative effects on the system and drive operational complexity for the end user. Treating it as an outage may cause higher level protocols to attempt to recover from the failure leaving the system vulnerable to further failures. The treatment as a failure may also cause re transmission of data etc. With the vast amount of data involved this is simply unacceptable.

For example using conventional optical modems such as the WaveLogic3 testing was performed to switch in service between Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK and 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation 16 QAM . The switch requires several seconds because operating conditions on the line including non linear impairments have to be calculated. Again it is expected that the switch can be optimized but likely not on the order of several milliseconds.

In an exemplary embodiment a hitless modulation change method at a node in an optical network includes determining that a modulation change is warranted for an optical modem in the node the optical modem configured to communicate over an optical link determining an impact of the modulation change on the optical link and associated underlying connections thereon causing changes in a data plane for the associated underlying connections prior to performing the modulation change and causing the modulation change subsequent to accommodating the associated underlying connections in the data plane thereby minimizing interruptions of the associated underlying connections due to the modulation change. The hitless modulation change method can further include causing reversion of the associated underlying connections to the optical link subsequent to completion and verification of the modulation change. The causing changes in the data plane can utilize a control plane and restoration of the associated underlying connections per normal control plane behavior. The normal control plane behavior can include any of mesh restoration via the control plane 1 1 1 1 Automatic Protection Switching APS Subnetwork Connection Protection SNCP ring restoration G.8032 Ethernet Ring Protection Switching ERPS and Virtual Local Area Network VLAN protection. The determining the impact can include determining a length of time the modulation change will take. The length of time the modulation change will take can be based on a type of the modulation change from first modulation scheme to a second modulation scheme link conditions and line measurements. The length of time can be communicated with the changes in the data plane for the associated underlying connections. The determining steps and the causing steps can be performed by a control agent communicatively coupled to the node. The control agent can operate in an autonomous manner and communicates with existing control plane functionality associated with the node to cause the changes in the data plane.

In another exemplary embodiment a hitless modulation change system communicatively coupled to a node in an optical network includes a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed cause the processor to determine that a modulation change is warranted for a optical modem in the node the optical modem is configured to communicate over an optical link determine an impact of the modulation change on the optical link and associated underlying connections thereon cause changes in a data plane for the associated underlying connections prior to performing the modulation change and cause the modulation change subsequent to accommodating the associated underlying connections in the data plane thereby minimizing interruptions of the associated underlying connections due to the modulation change. The memory storing instructions that when executed can further cause the processor to cause reversion of the associated underlying connections to the optical link subsequent to completion and verification of the modulation change. The changes in the data plane can be caused utilizing a control plane and restoration of the associated underlying connections per normal control plane behavior. The normal control plane behavior can include any of mesh restoration via the control plane 1 1 1 1 Automatic Protection Switching APS Subnetwork Connection Protection SNCP ring restoration G.8032 Ethernet Ring Protection Switching ERPS and Virtual Local Area Network VLAN protection. The impact can include determining a length of time the modulation change will take. The length of time the modulation change will take can be based on a type of the modulation change from first modulation scheme to a second modulation scheme link conditions and line measurements. The length of time can be communicated with the changes in the data plane for the associated underlying connections. The hitless modulation change system can be implemented through or communicatively coupled to a Software Defined Networking SDN controller. The control agent can operate in an autonomous manner and communicates with existing control plane functionality associated with the node to cause the changes in the data plane.

In a further exemplary embodiment an optical node implementing hitless modulation changes in an optical network includes one or more optical modems coupled to the optical network a fabric coupled to the one or more optical modems for switching of connections and a processing device implementing a control agent wherein the control agent is configured to determine that a modulation change is warranted for an optical modem in the node the optical modem is configured to communicate over an optical link determine an impact of the modulation change on the optical link and associated underlying connections thereon cause changes in a data plane for the associated underlying connections through the fabric prior to performing the modulation change and cause the modulation change subsequent to accommodating the associated underlying connections in the data plane thereby minimizing interruptions of the associated underlying connections due to the modulation change. The changes can be caused in the data plane utilizing a control plane and restoration of the associated underlying connections per normal control plane behavior with the fabric.

In various exemplary embodiments hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods in optical networks are described. The hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods allow modulation scheme changes of a transponder in a hitless manner so as to reap the benefit of changing the spectral efficiency to match link and system level requirements. The hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods provide a bottom up approach and autonomous approach that negotiates a modulation change when one is warranted and ensures that existing traffic is not impacted during the modulation change. Due to the complex nature of high speed optical transmission e.g. coherent modulation adaptive electrical signal processing Forward Error Correction FEC etc. it is extremely complex to switch a transponder or modem s modulation without impacting traffic. In this manner the hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods propose an approach using a mechanism which coordinates between a data plane and control plane i.e. using a fabric and a modem to ensure current traffic is minimally impacted from a modulation scheme change. Note as described herein a hitless change means one in which traffic is impacted by 50 ms or less or by an amount based on service restoration e.g. a mesh restoration event may be more than 50 ms . On the contrary a modulation scheme change can take on the order of seconds to implement given current implementations. It is expected that this amount of time will decrease such as to 1 s or less but still higher than 50 ms.

Additionally in various exemplary embodiments systems and methods for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks are described. Fundamentally the systems and methods exploit the fact that next gen flexible optical modems can support various bit rates well beyond a guaranteed bit rate in most operating situations i.e. the guaranteed bit rate is engineered for full fill or worst case and in all other situations higher bit rates typically can be achieved . In the systems and methods described herein techniques are described to actively mine this excess capacity to provide additional bandwidth without additional hardware that can be used for various purposes such as restoration traffic short lived bandwidth on demand connections or the like. In an exemplary aspect the systems and methods described herein are advantageous in first in builds in that this excess capacity can be used for restoration traffic without requiring additional hardware in low fill deployments. This can significantly lower the costs of first in builds. Further the systems and methods described herein contemplate integration between the flexible optical modems a management system management plane and or control plane a switching plane to enable use and management of this excess capacity as one or more logical interfaces.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a network diagram illustrates an exemplary network implementing the systems and methods for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks. The network includes two interconnected network elements via an optical link . Additionally the optical link can include additional components which are omitted for illustration purposes. For example the additional components can include without limitation optical amplifiers optical add drop multiplexers OADMs reconfigurable OADMs ROADMs etc. In the context of the systems and methods the network elements are connected via the optical link which is all optical between the network elements i.e. no optical electrical optical OEO conversions between the network elements . The optical link can be a single span or multiple spans with intermediate amplifiers. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the network can include other network elements forming various architectures i.e. mesh rings linear etc. The network is presented as a single optical link optionally with the components for an illustration of the systems and methods.

The optical link can include N channels or wavelengths denoted as . For example the number N can be the maximum supported channels on the optical link . Additionally the number N can be variable with respect to flexible grid channels e.g. channels taking an arbitrary and variable amount of spectrum . For example N can be 44 for 100 GHz channel spacing 88 for 50 GHz channel spacing or any combination in between to deliver between 36 and 88 wavelengths with flexible grid channels. Other embodiments are also contemplated. From a link engineering perspective the optical link is designed and implemented day one to support the N channels. However greenfield installation or first in builds i.e. new typically only include one or a couple of channels. Also it can often take time to move from the couple of channels to a full complement of the N channels on the optical link . This can be referred to as a forecast tolerant modeling scheme where the optical link is designed to support a full fill that will eventually be realized but is likely not present in first in builds. Thus from a system capacity perspective the optical link has unutilized margin and capacity in the first in builds and where the optical link has less than N channels deployed thereon.

In the context of the N channels the N channels are either fixed capacity channels or variable capacity channels depending on associated hardware at the network elements forming each of the N channels. In an exemplary embodiment the optical line can include one or more fixed capacity channels one or more variable capacity channels and or a combination thereof. Fixed capacity channels are implemented through optical transceivers transponders muxponders i.e. M N combiners etc. Here the fixed capacity channels do not have an ability to vary the bandwidth i.e. a 10 Gbps transponder with fixed capacity can only support 10 Gbps worth of traffic etc. Fixed capacity channels may also include fixed channel spacing e.g. 50 100 GHz i.e. fixed grid channels and fixed FEC overhead. For a fixed capacity channel if a channel has X dB excess margin there is no way the fixed capacity channel can make use of this excess margin i.e. the fixed capacity channel hardware is not configured to vary the bandwidth.

Variable capacity channels are implemented through flexible optical modems. In contrast to the fixed capacity channels variable capacity channels typically include adaptable coherent modulation or non coherent modulation adaptive FEC schemes and spectral shaping. A flexible optical modem can support a variable amount of bandwidth e.g. from x Gbps to y Gbps where x100G 100G 200G 400G 1T etc. The flexible optical modem utilizes the adaptable coherent modulation adaptive FEC schemes and spectral shaping to support the variable amount of bandwidth. The limitations on the upper bound of the variable amount of bandwidth are based on i what the optical link can support ii backplane interfaces in the network element with the flexible optical modem and iii adaptive modulation formats supported. An example of a flexible optical modem is the WaveLogic 3 from Ciena Corporation the assignee of the present application patent. Also note the flexible optical modem may also be referred to as a transceiver transponder muxponder etc.

With respect to adaptive coherent modulation the flexible optical modem can support various different baud rates through software programmable modulation formats. The flexible optical modem can support programmable modulation or constellations with both varying phase and or amplitude. In an exemplary embodiment the flexible optical modem can support multiple coherent modulation formats such as for example i dual channel dual polarization DP binary phase shift keying BPSK for 100G at submarine distances ii DP quadrature phase shift keying QPSK for 100G at ultra long haul distances iii 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM for 200G at metro to regional 600 km distances or iv dual channel 16QAM for 400G at metro to regional distances. Thus in this exemplary embodiment the same flexible optical modem hardware can support 100G to 400G. With associated digital signal processing DSP in the flexible optical modem hardware moving from one modulation format to another is completely software programmable. In another exemplary embodiment the flexible optical modem can support N QAM modulation formats with and without dual channel and dual polarization where N can even be a real number and not necessarily an integer. Here the flexible optical modem can support non standard speeds since N can be a real number as opposed to an integer i.e. not just 100G 200G or 400G but variable speeds such as 130G 270G 560G etc. Furthermore with the DSP and software programming the capacity of the flexible optical modem can be adjusted upwards or downwards in a hitless manner so as to not affect the guaranteed rate.

With respect to the adaptive FEC schemes the flexible optical modem can support a new soft decision forward error correction soft FEC algorithm. The soft FEC can be software programmable to adjust for low latency demands versus capacity performance demands. The soft FEC uses variable rate FEC codes which can take up variable amounts of an overall signal e.g. 20 16 10 7 etc. As is known in the art the stronger the FEC the more margin in dB is provided. In this manner the soft FEC provides another opportunity to mine the excess capacity on a variable capacity channel. For example assume a variable capacity channel is deployed with 20 FEC overhead with margin of 10 dB. The FEC can be reduced e.g. to 10 to reduce the margin and provide excess capacity for use. The strong FEC may not be needed until more channels are added to the optical link . An example of a soft decision forward error correction algorithm is described in Gho et al. Rate Adaptive Coding for Optical Fiber Transmission Systems IEEE JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY VOL. 29 NO. 2 Jan. 15 2011 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. Note the fixed capacity channel hardware may also implement FEC as well as a soft FEC. However as described herein the fixed capacity channel hardware is distinguishable from the variable capacity channel hardware in that it does not support an ability to mine the excess capacity. Rather the fixed capacity channel hardware only supports a single guaranteed rate.

With respect to spectral shaping the flexible optical modems can operate in both fixed and flexible grid environments. Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a spectral diagram illustrates an example of fitting a 100G signal into 50 GHz of bandwidth graph representing a QPSK 100G signal into 25 GHz of bandwidth graph representing a 16QAM 100G signal and into less than 25 GHz of bandwidth graph representing a spectrally shaped 16QAM 100G signal . Note the 16QAM 100G which uses half the baud rate of the QPSK 100G. If one is on a fixed grid there is no gain in spectral efficiency e.g. both signals fit into a 50 GHz channel. If one is allowed to change the channel spacing flexibly then the spectral efficiency can be doubled e.g. two 16QAM 100G signals in 50 GHz spacing. For example in a first in build solely with flexible optical modems it may be advantageous to use a flexible grid and space each 100G signal in the minimal amount of bandwidth. However in an existing fixed grid it may be required to fit the 100G into 50 GHz of bandwidth. Here in an exemplary embodiment the systems and methods propose to intentionally harm fixed capacity channels with excess but unusable margin to allow the flexible optical modem to use the excess margin.

Variously it is an exemplary objective of the systems and methods to mine this unutilized margin and capacity to lower first in network cost by allowing network operators to defer deploying excess capacity. Specifically through the flexible optical modems the systems and methods leverage the ability of the lines to provide the restoration bandwidth thereby deferring the deployment of additional optical interfaces as well as provide excess capacity that can be utilized for lower priority services bandwidth on demand etc. Specifically first in builds have significant excess margin and with the emergence of flexible optical modems it is an objective to provide and manage the excess margin to provide excess capacity without additional hardware or management constraints. That is the flexible optical modems can significantly reduce initial costs by providing extra capacity that can be used for restoration short lived on demand connections or excess capacity with lower service level agreements SLAs . In conjunction with the foregoing the systems and methods also include integration of this extra capacity with a management system management plane and or control plane in the network or other networks.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flowchart illustrates a method for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks. The method contemplates operation in the network and other optical networks including flexible optical modems for variable capacity channels and optionally with fixed capacity channels present as well. The method can be implemented on a single channel or wavelength of a flexible optical modem. The method can be implemented on multiple channels concurrently or in series. For example in series each iteration of the method may affect each subsequent iteration as the increased bandwidth of one channel may reduce the excess margin of the next. Performed concurrently the method may be based on a local determination of excess margin at each flexible optical modem without regard for collocated channels. The concurrent method could be independent as stated or in concert. Independent meaning that it is done per channel without regard for other collocated channels and in concert meaning that the margin of each channel is calculated taking into account the effect of the other collocated channels. This requires a master or nodal controller to amalgamate the channel information and perform the calculation.

The method includes determining excess margin relative to a nominal guaranteed rate of a flexible optical modem step . The nominal guaranteed rate can be the rate at which the flexible optical modem is configured to operate with a full fill on the associated optical line. Also the nominal guaranteed rate can be the rate that is guaranteed through link engineering to work under any conceivable condition on the optical line such as full fill. The excess margin in dB is the extra margin that the flexible optical modem presently sees given the current conditions on the optical line e.g. channel count . That is the excess margin is determined relative to margin needed to ensure performance at a nominal guaranteed rate. As stated herein it is expected that on first in deployments the flexible optical modem may see significant margin given the engineering requirement to design for worst case i.e. full fill .

With the determined excess margin the method includes increasing capacity of the flexible optical modem to consume most or all of the excess margin step . Thus the flexible optical modem supports a nominal guaranteed rate for guaranteed bandwidth and an excess rate for excess bandwidth where the excess rate minus the nominal guaranteed rate equals the excess capacity. Here the method can use all of the excess margin or most of it leaving a small amount e.g. 1 dB or less for cushion to ensure the nominal guaranteed rate.

Next the method includes mapping the excess capacity to one or more logical interfaces step . The logical interfaces are typically 1 1 mapped with physical interfaces. Specifically the logical interfaces are used by a management system management plane and or control plane to map physical interfaces onto the optical line. Exemplary logical interfaces can be defined in terms of bandwidth such as for example 155 Mpbs Synchronous Transport Signal level 1 STS 1 or VC3 N 155 Mpbs N STS 1 1 Gbps GbE 2.5 Gbps OC 48 STM 1 OTU1 ODU1 10 Gbps OC 192 STM 64 OTU2 ODU2 10 GbE 40 Gbps OC 768 STM 256 OTU3 ODU3 40 GbE 100 Gbs OTU4 ODU4 100 GbE variable capacity ODUFlex and the like. The logical interfaces can also be defined by signal type such as for example sub network connections SNCs label switched paths LSPs 2F 4F BLSRs 1 1 1 1 APS lines UPSRs VPSRs 0 1 unprotected lines etc. That is the logical interfaces represent anything that allows the management system management plane and or control plane to utilize the physical excess capacity from the method in a network along with various switches.

The management system management plane and or control plane are configured to recognize the excess capacity is terms of the associated logical interfaces and to allow physical hardware at the network elements to support these extra logical interfaces. From a hardware perspective the extra logical interfaces are formed on the optical line via the flexible optical modems in accordance with the method . At the network elements or collocated therewith switches can be configured to process the extra logical interfaces through associated switching fabrics. Again the management system management plane and or control plane recognize these additional logical interfaces as extra traffic without requiring additional hardware assuming the switching fabrics can support the additional capacity . Note illustrate an exemplary network element and associated control module for use with the systems and methods described herein.

In an exemplary embodiment the method includes flagging the bandwidth created in the step on the one or more logical interfaces as excess capacity. For example the flagging can include notifying the management system management plane and or control plane that the one or more logical interfaces are excess capacity. The reason is to flag to the management system management plane and or control plane is that this capacity can disappear and this needs to be accounted for. The method can be periodically reiterated for each flexible optical modem. For example the method can be reiterated at set intervals or based on an occurrence such as channel additions deletions on the optical lines or margin changes erosion on the optical lines. With each iteration of the method it is possible that the one or more logical interfaces could disappear or increase. For example if channels are added to a line and the method is rerun the excess capacity could be decreased since the additional channels will likely reduce the excess margin. With a reduction in the excess capacity some or all of the logical interfaces based thereon could disappear as the flexible optical modem scales back bandwidth or returns to the nominal guaranteed rate.

Accordingly in an exemplary aspect the method contemplates using these logical interfaces based on the excess capacity for restoration bandwidth in new or low fill optical networks as well as for bandwidth on demand i.e. short lived SNCs or LSPs etc. and lower cost bandwidth with minimal SLA requirements. Specifically in first in builds the method can significantly reduce costs using the logical interfaces based on the excess capacity as mesh restoration SNCs or LSPs. This can defer the cost of additional optical interfaces to form unused capacity that is dedicated for restoration. Thus in first in builds all optical hardware can be utilized for revenue generation.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates another method for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks. The method is similar to the method and provides additional details. Similarly the method contemplates operation in the network and other optical networks including flexible optical modems for variable capacity channels and optionally with fixed capacity channels present as well. The method can be implemented on a single channel or wavelength of a flexible optical modem. The method can be implemented on multiple channels concurrently or in series. For example in series each iteration of the method may affect each subsequent iteration as the increased bandwidth of one channel may reduce the excess margin of the next. Performed concurrently the method may be based on a local determination of excess margin at each flexible optical modem without regard for collocated channels. The concurrent method could be independent as stated or in concert. Independent meaning that it is done per channel without regard for other collocated channels and in concert meaning that the margin of each channel is calculated taking into account the effect of the other collocated channels. This requires a master or nodal controller to amalgamate the channel information and perform the calculation.

The method includes computing or providing a route for a network demand step . The network demand is a guaranteed amount of bandwidth needed in the network between two optical network elements e.g. 10G 40G 100G etc. The method can receive an explicit route or calculate a route using control plane techniques. Next the method includes determining path viability for the route and the network demand for an ideal bit rate using a forecast tolerant modeling scheme step . For example this functionality can be performed in a management system an optical modeling system etc. and this functionality includes determining the guaranteed wavelength capacity under worst case conditions such as at full fill etc. That is the forecast tolerant modeling scheme ensures the network demand can be serviced by the route regardless of future constraints. The step could also optionally include a wavelength assignment. The selection of wavelength could take into account the selection of wavelengths currently available not in use .

Next the method includes determining path viability for the route and a maximum supported capacity on the existing network step . The step could also optionally include a wavelength assignment. The selection of wavelength in this case could differ from the step in that it could select wavelengths which maximize the potential excess bandwidth. For example it could choose to separate wavelengths from those already in service or to allocate a different spectral width to the channel being routed. The wavelength assignment in this step could change the wavelength previously chosen in step . Alternatively this excess bandwidth aware wavelength assignment could be applied in step .

The step looks at the worst case whereas the step looks at current conditions i.e. right now without adding in margin for added channels or end of life operation . The step determines the guaranteed wavelength capacity while the step determines the current maximum wavelength capacity. It is the delta between these two scenarios that constitutes the excess margin and capacity opportunities with flexible optical modems. From a computation perspective assign the value determined in the step as Max and Max Engineered Max where Max Engineered is the maximum currently supported bandwidth Max is the result of the step i.e. the physical maximum bandwidth and is a small engineering margin simply to avoid a signal degrade threshold and this value can be 0 or a small amount such as 

Next the method includes installing and or activating a wavelength in the network at the Max Engineered rate with a logical interface thereon supporting the guaranteed rate for the network demand and one or more logical interfaces providing the excess capacity step . Here the method similar to the method can provide these one or more logical interfaces from the excess capacity to a management plane and a switching plane for use thereof as restoration capacity bandwidth on demand BOD short lived services etc. The method can implement the various functionality described in the method as well for implementing the one or more logical interfaces from the excess capacity.

The method will operate with the logical interface supporting the guaranteed rate and with the one or more logical interfaces providing the excess capacity until a margin erosion signal degradation or other change step . Again it is expected at the client layer that the logical interface for the guaranteed capacity can be used for any service request but specifically long lived traffic. On the other hand the client layer could use the excess capacity for any service request but it would be prudent to only use it for temporary traffic e.g. restoration traffic bandwidth on demand with a known termination date and time etc. . In the method if there is margin erosion or a signal degrade crossing step the flexible optical modem can drop the excess capacity and hitlessly revert back to the guaranteed bit rate step . In this way the excess margin is now used to make up for the margin erosion or the signal degrade crossing and not for the excess capacity. The excess capacity is lost but the guaranteed capacity is protected from the margin erosion or the signal degrade crossing.

Once stability has been achieved for a set amount of time e.g. 5 minutes 2 hours etc. step the method can include performing path viability for the route and a maximum supported capacity on the existing network step . The step is similar to the step . Once it is determined what excess margin exists after stability the flexible optical modem can hitlessly increase its rate based on the maximum supported rate from the step and the guaranteed rate from the step . Also if a path completely fails then an alternate path is computed per typical control plane behavior and installed. The method can operate as well on the new alternate path. For example the method can be implemented subsequent to a protection switch after stability is achieved.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates a coexistence method for managing excess optical capacity and margin in optical networks with both variable capacity channels and fixed capacity channels intermixed. Specifically the coexistence method contemplates operation along with the methods in the network and other optical networks including flexible optical modems for variable capacity channels and with fixed capacity channels present as well. The coexistence method begins with an assumption that any excess margin on a fixed capacity channel is unusable as discussed herein. The coexistence method looks for opportunities to reduce this unusable excess margin to increase the excess margin on variable capacity channels for increased excess capacity according to the methods .

The method includes one or more variable capacity channels operating or planned on being operated on a same optical line or link as one or more fixed capacity channels step . The method can be implemented at various stages in new systems where just a couple of channels are used all the way up to full fill. The method checks if there is an excess margin for any of the fixed capacity channels step and if not the method ends step . If there is an excess margin on any of the fixed capacity channels step the method utilizes various techniques to mine this excess margin for the benefit of the variable capacity channels which in turn can implement the methods whereas the fixed capacity channels cannot .

The method can include positioning or ensuring the variable capacity channels are located adjacent to fixed capacity channels on the optical spectrum step . That is it is advantageous for the method to have fixed capacity channels adjacent to the variable capacity channels as opposed to separating these channels on the spectrum. The method includes intentionally increasing performance of the variable capacity channels at the expense of the fixed capacity channels with excess margin to reduce the excess margin for the fixed capacity channels while concurrently increasing the excess margin for the variable capacity channel step . In a way it can be said that the method intentionally harms the fixed capacity channels to remove the excess margin so it can be used by the variable capacity channels.

The method contemplates various options for adjusting both the fixed capacity channels with excess margin and the variable capacity channels. For example the fixed capacity channels could be transmitted at lower output powers to make these channels less intrusive to neighboring variable capacity channels and therefore increase performance of the neighboring variable capacity channels. Further the fixed capacity channels could be transmitted at a reduced baud rate and increased signal density to transmit in a format that takes more OSNR but uses less spectrum. Also the variable capacity channel can intrude into the spectrum of the fixed capacity channel. For example in the variable capacity channel can extend 10 GHz into each of its neighbors to support 70 GHz of bandwidth versus 50 GHz thereby providing an additional margin for the variable capacity channel.

The method can install or increase bit rate of the variable capacity channels based on the increased performance and margin stolen from the fixed capacity channels and map this excess capacity to one or more logical interfaces such as described in the methods step . In an exemplary embodiment a method includes determining excess margin relative to margin needed to insure performance at a nominal guaranteed rate associated with a flexible optical modem configured to communicate over an optical link causing the flexible optical modem to consume most or all of the excess margin wherein the capacity increased above the nominal guaranteed rate includes excess capacity and mapping the excess capacity to one or more logical interfaces for use by a management system management plane and or control plane. The method can further include utilizing the one or more logical interfaces by the management system management plane and or control plane as one of restoration bandwidth or short lived bandwidth on demand connections. The method can further include determining the excess margin relative to the nominal guaranteed rate through the steps of determining path viability of a network demand over the optical link for an ideal bit rate using a forecast tolerant modeling scheme determining path viability for a maximum supported capacity over the optical link based on existing conditions on the optical link and determining the excess margin as a difference between the path viability for a maximum supported capacity and the path viability of the network demand along with including a small engineering margin. The method can further include detecting margin erosion or a signal degrade on the flexible optical modem and dropping the excess capacity and hitlessly reverting to the nominal guaranteed rate. The method can further include after a period of stability subsequent to the margin erosion or the signal degrade determining again the path viability for a new maximum supported capacity over the optical link based on existing conditions on the optical link and hitlessly increasing a rate of the flexible optical modem based on the new maximum supported capacity.

The method can further include updating the determined excess margin relative to the nominal guaranteed rate in the flexible optical modem responsive to channels added or deleted on the optical link. The flexible optical modem can form a variable capacity channel wherein the optical link can include a fixed capacity channel adjacent to the variable capacity channel and the method can further include determining excess margin for the fixed capacity channel that is unusable since the fixed capacity channel cannot modify its rate increasing performance of the variable capacity channel and or decreasing performance of the fixed capacity channel based on the excess margin for the fixed capacity channel and increasing bit rate of the variable capacity channel based on margin gained by the increased performance of the variable capacity channel and or the decreased performance of the fixed capacity channel. The method can further include increasing performance of the variable capacity channel including extending associated optical spectrum into optical spectrum from the fixed capacity channel and decreasing performance of the fixed capacity channel includes any of lowering output power to make the fixed capacity channel less intrusive to the variable capacity channel or transmitting at a reduced baud rate and or increased signal density to transmit in a format that uses less of the optical spectrum. The method can further include operating a control plane and utilizing the one or more logical interfaces for restoration sub network connections or label switched paths.

In another exemplary embodiment a network element includes at least one flexible optical modem and a controller configured to determine excess margin relative to margin needed to insure performance at a nominal guaranteed rate associated with the at least one flexible optical modem configured to communicate over an optical link cause the at least one flexible optical modem to consume most or all of the excess margin wherein the capacity increased above the nominal guaranteed rate includes excess capacity and map the excess capacity to one or more logical interfaces for use by a management system management plane and or control plane. The controller can be further configured to utilize the one or more logical interfaces as one of restoration bandwidth or short lived bandwidth on demand connections. The controller can be further configured to determine the excess margin relative to the nominal guaranteed rate through the steps of determine path viability of a network demand over the optical link for an ideal bit rate using a forecast tolerant modeling scheme determine path viability for a maximum supported capacity over the optical link based on existing conditions on the optical link and determine the excess margin as a difference between the path viability for a maximum supported capacity and the path viability of the network demand along with including a small engineering margin. The controller can be further configured to detect margin erosion or a signal degrade on the at least one flexible optical modem and drop the excess capacity and hitlessly reverting to the nominal guaranteed rate.

The controller can be further configured to after a period of stability subsequent to the margin erosion or the signal degrade determine again the path viability for a new maximum supported capacity over the optical link based on existing conditions on the optical link and hitlessly increase a rate of the flexible optical modem based on the new maximum supported capacity. The controller can be further configured to update the determined excess margin relative to the nominal guaranteed rate in the at least flexible optical modem responsive to channels added or deleted on the optical link. The at least one flexible optical modem can form a variable capacity channel wherein the optical link includes a fixed capacity channel adjacent to the variable capacity channel and the controller can be further configured to determine excess margin for the fixed capacity channel that is unusable since the fixed capacity channel cannot modify its rate increase performance of the variable capacity channel and or decreasing performance of the fixed capacity channel based on the excess margin for the fixed capacity channel and increase a bit rate of the variable capacity channel based on margin gained by the increase performance of the variable capacity channel and or the decreased performance of the fixed capacity channel. The controller can be further configured to increase performance of the variable capacity channel including extending associated optical spectrum into optical spectrum from the fixed capacity channel and decrease performance of the fixed capacity channel including the of lowering output power to make the fixed capacity channel less intrusive to the variable capacity channel or transmitting at a reduced baud rate and or increased signal density to transmit in a format that uses less of the optical spectrum. The controller can be further configured to operate a control plane and utilize the one or more logical interfaces for restoration of sub network connections or label switched paths.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a network includes a plurality of interconnected network elements at least one link in the network formed between two of the plurality of interconnected network elements is formed by flexible optical modems a control plane communicatively coupled to the plurality of interconnected network elements and a controller communicatively coupled to the flexible optical modems and configured to determine excess margin needed to insure performance at a nominal guaranteed rate over the at least one link cause the flexible optical modems to consume most or all of the excess margin wherein the capacity increased above the nominal guaranteed rate includes excess capacity and map the excess capacity to one or more logical interfaces for use by the control plane. The controller can be further configured to utilize the one or more logical interfaces as one of restoration bandwidth or short lived bandwidth on demand connections.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates an exemplary network element for use with the methods and systems described herein. In an exemplary embodiment the exemplary network element can be a network element that may consolidate the functionality of a multi service provisioning platform MSPP digital cross connect DCS Ethernet and or Optical Transport Network OTN switch dense wave division multiplexed DWDM platform etc. into a single high capacity intelligent switching system providing Layer 0 1 and 2 consolidation. In another exemplary embodiment the network element can be any of an OTN add drop multiplexer ADM a SONET SDH OTN ADM a multi service provisioning platform MSPP a digital cross connect DCS an optical cross connect an optical switch a router a switch a wavelength division multiplexing WDM terminal an access aggregation device etc. That is the network element can be any digital system with ingress and egress digital signals and switching therebetween of channels timeslots tributary units wavelengths etc. utilizing OTN SONET SDH etc. Alternatively the network element can exclude digital switching and solely provide optical switching and or transmission. While the network element is generally shown as an optical network element the systems and methods contemplated for use with any switching fabric network element or network based thereon.

In an exemplary embodiment the network element includes common equipment one or more line modules and one or more switch modules . The common equipment can include power a control module operations administration maintenance and provisioning OAM P access user interface ports and the like. The common equipment can connect to a management system through a data communication network . The management system can include a network management system NMS element management system EMS or the like. Additionally the common equipment can include a control plane processor configured to operate a control plane as described herein. The network element can include an interface for communicatively coupling the common equipment the line modules and the switch modules therebetween. For example the interface can be a backplane mid plane a bus optical or electrical connectors or the like. The line modules are configured to provide ingress and egress to the switch modules and external to the network element . In an exemplary embodiment the line modules can form ingress and egress switches with the switch modules as center stage switches for a three stage switch e.g. a three stage Clos switch. Other configurations and or architectures are also contemplated. The line modules can include optical transceivers such as for example 1 Gbps GbE PHY 2.5 Gbps OC 48 STM 1 OTU1 ODU1 10 Gbps OC 192 STM 64 OTU2 ODU2 10 GbE PHY 40 Gbps OC 768 STM 256 OTU3 ODU3 40 GbE PHY 100 Gbps OTU4 ODU4 100 GbE PHY etc.

Further the line modules can include a plurality of optical connections per module and each module may include a flexible rate support for any type of connection such as for example 155 Mbps 622 Mbps 1 Gbps 2.5 Gbps 10 Gbps 40 Gbps 100 Gbps 400 Gbps 1 Tbps and any rate in between. The line modules can include wavelength division multiplexing interfaces short reach interfaces and the like and can connect to other line modules on remote network elements end clients edge routers and the like. From a logical perspective the line modules provide ingress and egress ports to the network element and each line module can include one or more physical ports. As described herein the line modules can support either fixed capacity channels or variable capacity channels. The line modules can be transponders muxponders flexible optical modems etc. Note if the network element is a DWDM terminal the switch modules may be omitted and the line modules act as transponders muxponders etc. It is assumed that a switch device is at some point connected to the DWDM terminal to support the one or more logical interfaces that are formed from the excess capacity.

The switch modules are configured to switch channels timeslots tributary units etc. between the line modules . For example the switch modules can provide wavelength granularity Layer 0 switching SONET SDH granularity such as Synchronous Transport Signal 1 STS 1 and variants concatenations thereof STS n STS nc Synchronous Transport Module level 1 STM 1 and variants concatenations thereof Virtual Container 3 VC3 etc. OTN granularity such as Optical Channel Data Unit 1 ODU1 Optical Channel Data Unit 2 ODU2 Optical Channel Data Unit 3 ODU3 Optical Channel Data Unit 4 ODU4 Optical Channel Data Unit flex ODUflex Optical channel Payload Virtual Containers OPVCs ODTUGs etc. Ethernet packet granularity Digital Signal n DSn granularity such as DS0 DS1 DS3 etc. and the like. Specifically the switch modules can include both Time Division Multiplexed TDM i.e. circuit switching and packet switching engines. The switch modules can include redundancy as well such as 1 1 1 N etc. In an exemplary embodiment the switch modules provide OTN SONET or SDH switching.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize the network element can include other components which are omitted for illustration purposes and that the systems and methods described herein are contemplated for use with a plurality of different network elements with the network element presented as an exemplary type of network element. For example in another exemplary embodiment the network element may not include the switch modules but rather have the corresponding functionality in the line modules or some equivalent in a distributed fashion or completely omit the corresponding functionality as in the case of a DWDM terminal. For the network element other architectures providing ingress egress and switching therebetween are also contemplated for the systems and methods described herein. In general the systems and methods described herein contemplate use with any network element providing switching and or transport of OTN SONET SDH etc. channels timeslots tributary units wavelengths packets etc. Furthermore the network element is merely presented as one exemplary implementation for the systems and methods described herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize the systems and methods can be used for practically any type of network element that includes flexible optical modems for supporting variable capacity channels.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates a controller to provide control plane processing and or operations administration maintenance and provisioning OAM P for the network element . The controller can be part of common equipment such as common equipment in the network element . The controller can include a processor which is hardware device for executing software instructions such as operating the control plane. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the controller a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions. When the controller is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the controller pursuant to the software instructions. The controller can also include a network interface a data store memory an I O interface and the like all of which are communicatively coupled therebetween and with the processor .

The network interface can be used to enable the controller to communicate on a network such as to communicate control plane information to other controllers to the management system to a Software Defined Networking or OpenFlow controller and the like. The network interface can include for example an Ethernet card e.g. 10BaseT Fast Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet or a wireless local area network WLAN card e.g. 802.11a b g . The network interface can include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications on the network. The data store can be used to store data such as control plane information provisioning data OAM P data etc. The data store can include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM and the like nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive flash drive CDROM and the like and combinations thereof. Moreover the data store can incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. The memory can include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive flash drive CDROM etc. and combinations thereof. Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but may be accessed by the processor .

The I O interface includes components for the controller to communicate to other devices in a node such as through the local interface . The components are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface and the I O interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface and the I O interface can have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers among many others to enable communications. Further the local interface and the I O interface can include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The network element the controller and associated optical networks and the like can utilized control plane systems and methods in addition to or in replace of the standard management system functionality. Control plane systems and methods provide automatic allocation of network resources in an end to end manner. Exemplary control planes may include Automatically Switched Optical Network ASON as defined in G.8080 Y.1304 Architecture for the automatically switched optical network ASON February 2005 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference Generalized Multi Protocol Label Switching GMPLS Architecture as defined in Request for Comments RFC 3945 October 2004 and the like the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference Optical Signaling and Routing Protocol OSRP from Ciena Corporation which is an optical signaling and routing protocol similar to PNNI Private Network to Network Interface and MPLS or any other type control plane for controlling network elements at multiple layers and establishing connections there between. It is essential for the operation of control planes to have control plane signaling and Operations Administration Maintenance and Provisioning OAM P connectivity between nodes.

It is important to note that the one or more logical interfaces from the methods are provided to the control plane and or management system for use thereof. In the control plane the one or more logical interfaces can be used for path computation especially for mesh reroutes in failure scenarios or for short lived SNC or LSP requests. Thus the systems and methods described herein provide the methods for determining and setting maximum bandwidths on flexible optical modems the control plane and or management system are made aware of the excess capacity as one or more logical interfaces that are flagged as excess capacity and collocated switching fabrics can use these one or more logical interfaces at the direction of the control plane and or management system for various purposes such as restoration or short lived SNCs or LSPs.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates a hitless modulation change system at a node connected to an optical network . The node includes one or more modems a fabric and optionally one or more client transceivers . The modems are flexible optical modems as described herein and interface optically via a bi directional connection to the optical network . The fabric can include an optical switching fabric wavelengths a time division multiplexing TDM fabric OTN SONET SDH etc. and or a packet switching fabric Ethernet MPLS IP etc. . Note the fabric can be implemented in various different devices for different layers and or in an integrated manner. Here in the fabric is shown as a single logical device for illustration purposes. The fabric is configured to switch wavelengths channels timeslots tributary units and or packets between and among the modems as well as the client transceivers note in some exemplary embodiments the client transceivers may be omitted in the node . The client transceivers are for local add drop of connections from the node .

The node and the optical network can include a control plane . Note the connections formed through the fabric between and among the modems and or the client transceivers can be referred to as a data plane. The control plane is a separate management plane to control the connections in the data plane. Again as described herein the control plane can include ASON GMPLS OSRP etc. as well as other management mechanisms such as Software Defined Networking SDN Path Computation Element PCE and the like. That is the control plane represents any mechanism for automatically allocating the connections within the optical network through the node .

As described herein the node and the modems as flexible optical modems support variable and flexible modulation schemes meant to maximize optical capacity. For the hitless modulation scheme change systems and methods the node includes or is communicatively coupled to a control agent with the ability to probe the optical network to determine not only that a change is warranted and acceptable but also to determine the parameters of the impact of the traffic carrying capability of the channels and provide a mechanism to perform the change without impacting traffic. Specifically the control agent can be an autonomous system that coordinates between the modems and the fabric to ensure that any modulation change in a particular modem is hitless to all underlying connections currently on the modem . This can be done through rerouting of the underlying connections via the fabric and or the control plane during a modulation change process and reverting the underlying connections back to the modem subsequent to completion of the modulation change process. In this manner the modulation change process is hitless to the underlying connections the underlying connections are rerouted per existing control plane behavior for restorations and an end user does not have to manually manage the modulation change process.

The control agent contemplates operation locally or remotely relative to the node . In an exemplary embodiment the control agent is implemented in the controller . In another exemplary embodiment the control agent is implemented in the management system or an SDN controller or application. Various other embodiments are also contemplated. The control agent is communicatively coupled to the modems to the control plane the SDN controller the management system and or to the fabric . The control agent can be configured to perform various functions described herein such as determining a modulation change is warranted and supported determining the impact of the modulation change causing rerouting of connections impacted by the modulation change and the like. That is the control agent implements an autonomous self optimization of the modems in the optical network . Importantly the control agent works with existing functionality in the optical network and the control plane treating the underlying connections as per standard restoration procedures while a modulation change occurs. In this manner network behavior is preserved and the underlying connections are minimally impacted due to the modulation change i.e. hitless based on the underlying restoration technique .

The approach contemplated herein can be referred to as a bottom up approach in that a modulation change is determined and the control agent performs rerouting of the underlying connections first with the control plane etc. prior to implementing the modulation change. Thus the modulation change can be implemented safely without impacting the underlying connections without adjustments at run time and without needing to minimize the length of the modulation change. The control agent can be informed once the modulation change is complete and verified and cause reversion of the underlying connections. The control agent allows a bottom up approach that is less complex using existing functionality rather than adding extra functionality is autonomous and enables better temporal average spectral efficiency of the modems and the optical network . Additionally the control agent can implement all or part of the methods described herein.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates a hitless modulation change method which can be implemented through the control agent in coordination with the modem the control plane etc. The hitless modulation change method includes determining that a modulation change is needed on one of the modems step . This determination can be as described herein e.g. excess margin available decrease in the margin etc. Note the hitless modulation change method is described with reference to a single modem however the hitless modulation change method can be implemented concurrently for multiple modems as required. The modulation change includes going from a first modulation to a second modulation and the either the first modulation or the second modulation can provide more capacity i.e. the modulation change can be an increase or decrease.

The hitless modulation change method includes determining the impact of the modulation change step . The impact includes which underlying connections are affected by the modulation change a length of time of the modulation change either estimated or calculated and the like. Here the hitless modulation change method can determine which connections will be affected by the modulation change and about how long the modulation change will require. For example the modem can report a length of time the modulation change will take based on the first modulation and the second modulation link conditions line measurements etc.

Next the hitless modulation change method can cause rerouting of any underlying connections which will be impacted by the modulation change step . Note the hitless modulation change method can also support local buffering of data and retransmission subsequent to completion of the modulation change however this is likely complex and costly due to the amount of bandwidth required. The hitless modulation change method can cause rerouting by alerting the control plane of which connections are affected to allow the control plane to reroute the connections per existing restoration techniques in the optical network and optionally provide the length of time so the control plane could implement an automatic reversion. Thus the hitless modulation change method utilizes the control plane to coordinate a data path change in the data plane to accommodate the modulation change without interruption to the data flow.

Note the rerouting of the underlying connections is per normal restoration techniques which may include mesh restoration via the control plane 1 1 1 1 Automatic Protection Switching APS Subnetwork Connection Protection SNCP rings BLSR UPSR etc. G.8032 Ethernet Ring Protection Switching ERPS ITU T Recommendation G.8032 Y.1344 02 12 Ethernet ring protection switching the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein Virtual Local Area Network VLAN protection and the like. That is the control plane can use whatever techniques are currently available in the data plane for rerouting restoring connections in event of a fault. Here the modulation change can be effectively viewed as a future fault that is mitigated in advance ensuring no traffic impact.

However a planned change in a channel path in this case triggered by the desire to change modulation formats can be much less of a hit in terms of time than a restoration protection event driven by a failure. This is because the failure must be detected before the switch re route can take place. By this time it s already too late so to speak as data has already been lost. In the case of a maintenance event such as in this use case one can perform what is called a bridge and roll where the new path is brought up by duplicating the data across the new path. In this case even a very simple switch can be used in which case the data which is lost is only due to the differential delay in the two paths. It is also possible to adjust or align to the new path before switching in which case there is no hit whatsoever. Thus as described herein the modulation change is hitless or substantially hitless traffic loss is only due to the differential delay in the two paths which is typically less than 50 ms .

Once all the underlying connections are accounted for either by rerouting or buffering the hitless modulation change method includes causing the modulation change step . Here the control agent can signal to the modem that it can implement the modulation change. The hitless modulation change method waits for the modulation change to complete and verification step . Note it is expected the modulation change will take from about 1 s to multiple seconds. If there is a failure in the modulation change the modem can revert back to the first modulation. If there is a success the modem will operate with the second modulation and associated components in the modem will adjust and normalize to the line conditions with the second modulation dispersion non linear effects etc. . Once the second modulation is working the modem can verify successful operation through various OAM P parameters such as FEC.

With proper operation of the second modulation or reversion back to the first modulation the hitless modulation change method can include reversion of the underlying connections back to the modem step . Here the hitless modulation change method can cause reversion or the underlying connections can automatically revert such as based on the length of time plus a buffer time. Again the entire hitless modulation change method can be autonomous meaning it requires no user intervention and it operates with existing data plane restoration functionality.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates a processing device that can operate the control agent . The processing device can be a digital computer that in terms of hardware architecture generally includes a processor input output I O interfaces a network interface a data store and memory . It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that depicts the processing device in an oversimplified manner and a practical embodiment may include additional components and suitably configured processing logic to support known or conventional operating features that are not described in detail herein. The components and are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface can have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers among many others to enable communications. Further the local interface can include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software instructions. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the processing device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions. When the processing device is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the processing device pursuant to the software instructions. The I O interfaces can be used to receive user input from and or for providing system output to one or more devices or components. User input can be provided via for example a keyboard touch pad and or a mouse. System output can be provided via a display device and a printer not shown . I O interfaces can include for example a serial port a parallel port a small computer system interface SCSI a serial ATA SATA a fibre channel Infiniband iSCSI a PCI Express interface PCI x an infrared IR interface a radio frequency RF interface and or a universal serial bus USB interface.

The network interface can be used to enable the processing device to communicate on a network. The network interface can include for example an Ethernet card or adapter e.g. 10BaseT Fast Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet 10 GbE or a wireless local area network WLAN card or adapter e.g. 802.11a b g n . The network interface can include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications on the network. A data store can be used to store data. The data store can include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM and the like nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM and the like and combinations thereof. Moreover the data store can incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. In one example the data store can be located internal to the processing device such as for example an internal hard drive connected to the local interface in the processing device . Additionally in another embodiment the data store can be located external to the processing device such as for example an external hard drive connected to the I O interfaces e.g. SCSI or USB connection . In a further embodiment the data store can be connected to the processing device through a network such as for example a network attached file server.

The memory can include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. and combinations thereof. Moreover the memory can incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor . The software in memory can include one or more software programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S and one or more programs . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs such as the one or more programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. The one or more programs may be configured to implement the various processes algorithms methods techniques etc. described herein.

In an exemplary embodiment processing device can be configured to implement the control agent . For example the processing device can be an SDN controller or another device operating an SDN application in communication with the SDN controller. The processing device can also be a standalone device in communication with the various components in the hitless modulation change system . The SDN controller can also include an Application Programming Interface API which allows additional applications to interface with the SDN controller for data associated with the optical network . In an exemplary embodiment the control agent can be implemented on the processing device or on the processing device operating as the SDN controller and receive data through the API. The processing device can also be a standalone device in communication with the various components in the hitless modulation change system . Other configurations are also contemplated.

The processing device can include a queue that performs the hitless modulation change method on one or more of the modems . Again the hitless modulation change systems and methods contemplate operation of the hitless modulation change method for one or more of the modems simultaneously as appropriate. For example the modems can be managed based on location in the optical network along with appropriate rules. One exemplary rule may be that only one modem at a time in a node can perform the hitless modulation change method whereas modems in different nodes can perform concurrently. Also of note the hitless modulation change method is performed at both ends of a connection simultaneously. The control agent can be a local device that communicates with a peer control agent to coordinate the modulation change. Alternatively the control agent can have a global view and perform both ends simultaneously for an optical section.

It will be appreciated that some exemplary embodiments described herein may include one or more generic or specialized processors one or more processors such as microprocessors digital signal processors customized processors and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and unique stored program instructions including both software and firmware that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions of the methods and or systems described herein. Alternatively some or all functions may be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the aforementioned approaches may be used. Moreover some exemplary embodiments may be implemented as a non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable code stored thereon for programming a computer server appliance device etc. each of which may include a processor to perform methods as described and claimed herein. Examples of such computer readable storage mediums include but are not limited to a hard disk an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a ROM Read Only Memory a PROM Programmable Read Only Memory an EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory Flash memory and the like. When stored in the non transitory computer readable medium software can include instructions executable by a processor that in response to such execution cause a processor or any other circuitry to perform a set of operations steps methods processes algorithms etc.

Although the present disclosure has been illustrated and described herein with reference to preferred embodiments and specific examples thereof it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples may perform similar functions and or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments and examples are within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure are contemplated thereby and are intended to be covered by the following claims.

