---

title: Management of application access
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for management of application access. A security management application can be configured to set access controls and/or other security settings relating to application programs. Additionally, or alternatively, particular functions and/or functionality associated with application programs may be individually configured. Settings reflecting the access controls and/or other security settings can be stored and can be applied at the user device. The security management application also can be configured to determine if security settings and/or access controls are to be overridden. Data can be collected from various sensors and/or other sources to use in determining if particular application programs and/or application program functionality is to be allowed. Thus, normally disallowed activities can be allowed in emergency conditions, when in a business location associated with a particular device, and/or at other times and/or under other circumstances.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342708&OS=09342708&RS=09342708
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09342708
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140825
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 557 781 filed Jul. 25 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 819 850 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application relates generally to applications and access to application functionality. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to a management of application access.

Over the past several years the use of mobile computing devices supporting various types of applications has proliferated rapidly. Many consumers have at least one smartphone or tablet computer that can execute various types of applications and or other types of functionality. Because these applications and or functions can access data networks and or allow users to interact with sensitive data these and other types of computing devices often use and or apply a security policy to prevent unauthorized access.

In some cases a lock screen is presented when a device is powered on brought out of a sleep or hibernation mode and or at other times. To gain access to the applications installed at the device a user or other entity must enter a passcode or password a username and or otherwise successfully authenticate with the device. Thus a computing device can offer authorized users high levels of functionality and or allow interactions with sensitive information and or applications without subjecting personal information to theft and or other types of misappropriation that otherwise may be common with portable devices such as smartphones.

The present disclosure is directed to management of application access. According to concepts and technologies disclosed herein frequent and or convenient access can be given to applications and or particular functions of applications. According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein application programs and or functionality of application programs of a user device can be accessed without unlocking the user device and or otherwise authenticating with the user device. Various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein also can be used to enable users to configure what application programs and or specific functionality of the application programs are or are not to be allowed without unlocking a user device.

According to various embodiments the user device can execute a security management application for configuring one or more application programs installed at the user device to set access controls and or other security settings relating to the application programs. In some embodiments an application program can include multiple functions and users or other authorized entities can be allowed to configure the application for tiered access. As used herein the term tiered access and or variations thereof can be used to refer to application programs and or other software having multiple functions that can be separately configured to allow or disallow access to one or more of the functions when the user device is in a locked state or other secure state. Settings reflecting the access controls and or other security settings can be stored and can be applied at the user device.

In some embodiments the user device can be configured to determine if security settings and or access controls are to be overridden when the user device is powered on brought out of sleep or hibernation mode and or otherwise interacted with when the user device is locked. In particular the user device can collect data from various sensors and or other sources to determine if particular application programs and or application program functionality is to be allowed. Thus users who cannot authenticate with the user device may be allowed to access certain functionality in emergency conditions when in a business location associated with the user device and or at other times and or under other circumstances.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a method is disclosed. The method can include launching a security management application. The security management application can be launched for example at a computing device. The method also can include selecting an application program installed at the computing device and setting an access control associated with the application program. The access control can define whether or not access to the application program is to be allowed when the computing device is in a secured state. The method also can include storing a setting defining the access control associated with the application program.

In some embodiments the method also can include determining if tiered access is to be configured for the application program wherein the application program can be executed to provide a number of functions. Setting the access control can include selecting a function of the number of functions and assigning a function access control for the function. Selecting the function also can include presenting a list including data indicating at least one of the number of functions and a user interface control for assigning the function access control and receiving input corresponding to the function access control assigned to the function via the user interface. In some embodiments setting the access control can include presenting a list including data indicating the application program and a user interface control for assigning the access control to the application program and receiving input corresponding to the access control assigned to the application program via the user interface.

In some embodiments the method further can include exiting the security management application again launching the security management application collecting data at the user device and determining if the access control is to be overridden based at least partially upon the data collected. Collecting the data can include collecting sensor data indicating an emergency condition at the user device. In some embodiments in response to determining that the access control is to be overridden based upon the emergency condition the method can include overriding the access control to allow access to the application program. Collecting the data also can include determining a geographic location of the user device. In some embodiments in response to determining that the access control is to be overridden based upon the geographic location the method can further include overriding the access control to allow access to the application program wherein the geographic location can correspond to a business location associated with an owner of the user device.

According to another aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a computer storage medium is disclosed. The computer storage medium can have computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a computer cause the computer to launch a security management application at the computer select an application program installed at the computer and set an access control associated with the application program. The access control can define whether or not access to the application program is to be allowed when the computing device is in a secured state. The secured state can include a locked state. The computer executable instructions can further include instructions that when executed by the computer cause the computer to store a setting defining the access control associated with the application program.

In some embodiments the computer storage medium can further include computer executable instructions that when executed by the computer cause the computer to determine if tiered access is to be configured for the application program wherein the application program is executable to provide a number of functions select a function of the number of functions and assign a function access control for the function. In some embodiments selecting the function can include presenting a list including data indicating at least one of the number of functions and a user interface control for assigning the function access control and receiving input corresponding to the function access control assigned to the function via the user interface. In some embodiments setting the access control can include presenting a list including data indicating the application program and a user interface control for assigning the access control to the application program and receiving input corresponding to the access control assigned to the application program via the user interface. In some embodiments the computer storage medium can further include computer executable instructions that when executed by the computer cause the computer to exit the security management application launch the security management application collect data at the user device and determine if the access control is to be overridden based at least partially upon the data collected.

According to yet another aspect a mobile computing device including a processor configured to execute computer executable instructions stored thereon for providing a security management application wherein the processor is configured via execution of the security management application to launch the security management application at the mobile computing device and select an application program installed at the mobile computing device. The application program can be selected from a number of application programs. The processor can be further configured to determine if tiered access is to be configured for the application program. In response to determining that tiered access is not to be configured the processor can set an access control associated with the application program the access control defining whether access to the application program is to be allowed when the computing device is in a secured state and store a setting defining the access control associated with the application program. In response to determining that the tiered access is to be configured the processor can select a function of the number of functions assign a function access control for the function and store a setting defining the function access control associated with the application program.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device can include a smartphone. In some embodiments the secured state can include a lock screen. The processor can be further configured to present a list including data indicating at least one of the number of functions and a user interface control for assigning the function access control and receive input corresponding to the function access control assigned to the function via the user interface. The processor also can be configured to present a list including data indicating the application program and a user interface control for assigning the access control to the application program and receive input corresponding to the access control assigned to the application program via the user interface. In some embodiments the processor can be further configured to exit the security management application launch the security management application collect data at the mobile computing device using a sensor associated with the mobile computing device and determine if the access control is to be overridden based at least partially upon the data collected.

In some embodiments the security management application described herein can execute locally on a user device such as a smartphone tablet computer or the like and can allow the user to make configuration changes. In some other embodiments the security management application can be configured to execute remotely with respect to the user device . For example the security management application can be executed at an enterprise management console or other location and can be configured to allow users to make changes remotely. Thus in some embodiments the security management application can execute locally or remotely and can be configured to monitor states and or other aspects of a user device from afar. Additionally or alternatively the security management application whether locally and or remotely executed can be configured to adjust states settings configurations and or other aspects of user device locally and or remotely. Thus in some embodiments the security management application can be configured to expose and or access an application programming interface API available to applications executing at or remotely from the user device.

In some embodiments applications executing on a device configured to use the functionality described herein with respect to the security management application can be configured to self determine whether or not user access to application functionality is or is not to be allowed through a fully authenticated e.g. unlocked state or through a secured or locked state. Thus application programs can be configured to execute logic that can be built in to the application programs and or configured via a managed rule set to determine how and or whether to show certain functionality to the user as a function of that access state.

In some contemplated embodiments a security layer can be provided for a user device. The security layer can be configured to govern usable functionality. In some embodiments such an approach may be impractical due to a possible inability to differentiate subtleties of functionality within an application program. In other embodiments however the security layer governance approach may be useful. In particular if a rule set involved a global rule such as no use of screen display at all for access in a locked state then certain security limitations may be imposed against all applications for example. Thus a user or other authorized entity may impose security that would for example only allow applications with audio to be usable in a locked state. There are many conceivable rules that may be imposed on application programs and or on a device at a security layer level. These rules can range from subtle rules that could only be implemented within application specific logic such as show first names only when unauthenticated user views contact data to potentially useful global rules that could be governed at a system level such as disable ability to use phone and network for unauthenticated users. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to management of application access. According to concepts and technologies disclosed herein application programs and or functionality of application programs of a user device can be accessed without unlocking the user device and or otherwise authenticating with the user device. Various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein also can be used to enable users to configure what application programs and or specific functionality of the application programs are or are not to be allowed without unlocking a user device. The user device can execute a security management application for configuring one or more application programs installed at the user device to set access controls and or other security settings relating to the application programs. Additionally or alternatively particular functions and or functionality associated with application programs may be individually configured. Settings reflecting the access controls and or other security settings can be stored and can be applied at the user device.

The user device also can be configured to determine if security settings and or access controls are to be overridden when the user device is powered on brought out of sleep or hibernation mode and or otherwise interacted with when the user device is locked. In particular the user device can collect data from various sensors and or other sources to determine if particular application programs and or application program functionality is to be allowed. Thus users who do not authenticate with the user device may be allowed to access certain functionality in emergency conditions when in a business location associated with the user device and or at other times and or under other circumstances.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for management of application access will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The operating environment shown in includes a user device operating in communication with and or as part of a communications network network .

According to various embodiments the functionality of the user device may be provided by one or more mobile telephones laptop computers tablet computers slate computers navigation devices or the like. In some other embodiments the functionality of the user device can be provided by one or more desktop computers server computers set top boxes embedded computer systems other computing systems and the like. It should be understood that the functionality of the user device described herein can be provided by a single device executing a local or remote application or by two or more devices. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device is described herein as a mobile computing device such as a smartphone or tablet computer. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The user device can execute an operating system one or more application programs and a security management application . The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the user device . The application programs and the security management application are executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functions. In particular the application programs can include any number of natively executed software such as web browsers text editors games social networking applications messaging applications telephone applications email applications map applications productivity applications combinations thereof or the like. Additionally or alternatively the application programs can provide functionality associated with applications by obtaining data from remote devices or services such as for example a service executed or otherwise provided by a server computer . Thus it should be understood that the application programs can include natively executed applications web applications and or hybrid applications wherein some functionality is provided by a locally executed application that can access remotely provided data such as the data .

According to various embodiments the application programs can include various functions and or associated functionality. For example in an embodiment in which one of the application programs includes a map application the map application can include functionality for displaying a map functionality for displaying a current location in association with a map functionality for generating navigation directions between two or more geographic locations functionality for performing location based searches and or other functionality. Thus in addition to variations in functionality associated with the application programs the application programs also can include multiple functions and or functionality of varying types.

According to embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a user developer device manufacturer network operator and or other authorized entity can control functionality associated with the application programs by way of a the security management application . As will be explained in more detail below the security management application can be used by an authorized entity to determine an access level granted to various users interacting with the user device . Additionally the security management application can be used by an entity to control tiered access to various multi function application programs such as the map application mentioned above.

In particular the security management application can be configured to identify applications installed at the user device and to determine application functions that are to be controlled by the security management application . According to various embodiments an application developer or other entity can specify the functions that are to be controlled. In some other embodiments the security management application can be configured to analyze program code associated with the application programs to identify functions associated with the application programs . A telephone application for example can include a function for making and or accepting phone calls and functionality for accessing voicemail. In such an embodiment the security management application can be configured to recognize two functions that can be controlled by the security management application namely phone call functionality and voicemail functionality. The control of these and or other functions of the application programs are described in additional detail below.

The security management application can be configured to present functionality associated with an application program to a user or other entity and to provide controls for setting access controls for the functionality. For example the security management application can generate a user interface for presenting the functionality for presenting options for controlling access to the functionality and for obtaining input from an entity with regard to the functionality. Some examples of example user interfaces for controlling application access are illustrated and described below with reference to .

As will be explained in more detail below with reference to some or even all functionality associated with an application program can be controlled by a single setting. Thus for example a user may determine that all phone functions voicemail and phone call functionality are to be controlled as a group. In some other embodiments the security management application can provide various functions associated with the application program for control by the user or other entity. Thus an entity can control various functions of a particular application program individually and or as a group.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide users or other entities with the ability to access functionality associated with the application programs when the user device is in a locked state. Although a locked state is referred to herein it should be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be applied to various secured states associated with the user device including but not limited to a locked state wherein a security code passcode or recognized gesture must be entered to unlock or unsecure the user device . Thus the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to provide secured access and or to manage secured access to applications without first unlocking the device. As such the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can allow users to access various levels of functionality which as mentioned above can be configured by users or other entities without first deactivating device security. Embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can allow users to access navigation instructions while driving allow other users to play games or execute other functions while the device owner may be unavailable or where diverting attention to unlock the device may be undesirable.

Additionally embodiments of the security management application are configured to reconfigure application program access levels based upon various considerations in addition to or instead of user choices. For example the security management application can be configured to access various sensors associated with the user device and or to access various devices networks or nodes in communication with the user device to determine if certain functionality associated with the user device and or the application programs are to be surfaced or made accessible without first unlocking the device. Some contemplated embodiments of reconfiguring application programs include detecting emergency situations to reconfigure access to telephone functions messaging functions and or other functionality detecting presence or location at a corporate site to enable certain application programs such as intranet access or the like for any device user or the like. Additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for reconfiguring application access based upon environmental conditions and or location will be described in more detail below.

Although the security management application is illustrated as a an application program executed at the user device it should be understood that the security management application may be embodied in stand alone devices or components thereof operating as part of or in communication with the network and or the user device . As such the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of only some contemplated embodiments and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments settings associated with the application programs and or their associated functionality can be specified by application developers device manufacturers network operators users or other entities. Thus the security management application can be used to change or update access settings associated with the application programs if desired in addition to or instead of creating the settings.

According to various implementations a user launches the security management application to tailor access control settings for the application programs . In some embodiments the security management application analyzes the application programs installed and or otherwise accessible at the user device and compiles a list for presentation in a user interface. As explained above the security management application also can be configured to determine if more than one level of access are to be configured for one or more of the application programs . For example a user may configure an application program such that some functionality is accessible through a lock screen of the device while other functionality is not. For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein application programs for which multiple levels of access can be configured are referred to herein as tiered application programs and or access to these application programs is referred to herein as tiered access. 

The security management application can determine if tiered access is to be configured for one or more of the application programs . If tiered access is not to be configured for any of the application programs the security management application can set access control settings for the application programs . In some embodiments the security management application can be configured to present a user interface with options for setting the access control settings for the application programs . The options can include checkboxes or other UI controls for selecting or deselecting accessibility controls.

If the security management application determines that tiered access is to be configured for one or more of the application programs the security management application can present a user interface for assigning access control for various functions or functionality of the application program . It should be understood that the user interface for controlling tiered access of an application program can be accessed via the user interface for presenting the application programs and or can be accessed via a dedicated user interface. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Once access controls have been defined for one or more of the application programs and or functionality of the application programs the security management application can save the settings. The settings can be saved as device preferences settings and or configurations application settings or preferences or the like. The settings can be saved and the security management application can be exited or stopped if desired.

In some embodiments if the user device is turned on or brought out of sleep mode the security management application can be invoked to govern granting and or denying of access to the application programs . Thus the settings saved by the security management application can be considered a security profile for the device if desired. Upon being powered on and or brought out of sleep mode the security management application can be configured to collect environmental and or location information such as ambient noise levels ambient light levels geographic location network surveys local devices and or networks or the like. Based upon these and or other considerations the security management application can be configured to grant access to application programs and or functionality of the application programs whether or not the security policy allows access and or whether or not the user device has been unlocked. These and other aspects of the security management application will be described in more detail below.

 Emergencies and or emergency situations as used herein can refer to operating conditions that are outside of what is considered a normal or average operating state. For example an emergency state can include a state in which a fire health or police emergency is occurring at or in proximity to the user device . Thus for example the user device can be configured to detect a smoke alarm a fire alarm a burglar alarm or the like to detect excessive sounds heat temperature fluctuations or the like by accessing various sensors as described herein. Additionally it should be understood that that an emergency state or emergency situation can be determined to exist based upon a literal assertion of such a state. For example a network device or node in communication with the user device may inform the user device that such a state exists. In some contemplated embodiments a national or regional emergency system may inform the user device of an emergency situation. These and or other types of literally asserting emergency conditions may be dictated by regulations or business agreements with the phone account owner network operations or the like. In one embodiment the user device can determine that an emergency condition exists based upon information received from a Commercial Mobile Alert System CMAS also referred to as Emergency Cell Broadcast. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the functions and or functionality of the application programs have been described as being exposed to and or determinable by the security management application . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. In particular it should be understood that in some embodiments functions and or functionality of the application programs may be contextual and that the security management application may not determine what functions or functionality exist in an application program that are worthy of access control. Thus in some embodiments the security management application can access an interface such as an API configured to allow querying or calls to query the application program for a manifest of functions and or associated textual descriptions of the functions if included .

In some embodiments application programs can be configured with default behavior in the event that listing and or delivering lists of functions associated with the application programs may be impractical or undesirable to list every function and or to require or expect a user to choose a behavior for each function. As such a default action such as for example all other functionality accessible in authenticated mode only or the like may be a useful built in behavior. The query could also be accomplished by reading a device manifest that can be delivered with each application program at installation time and installed in the operating system as a permanent part of the application program residency in the user device . The manifest can in some embodiments include details used by the security management application to offer the functions and or choices described herein.

It should be understood that the user device can also be configured to execute policy configuration roles and the policy enforcement roles. Thus while not shown in the user device also can be configured to execute a security policy enforcement application. Thus while security policy configuration and policy enforcement are described herein it should be understood that that these and other roles may be executed by different applications. Additionally the security management application may execute realtime and or in non realtime thereby enabling users to review and set security configuration policies and or enforcement mechanisms at any time. In some embodiments the user device can execute or provide an agent that can run in realtime to enforce security settings including defined overrides and or using any sensors.

Turning now to aspects of a method for managing application access settings will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used in the herein is used expansively hereinto include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed by the user device via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the security management application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the security management application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the user device launches the security management application . According to various embodiments the functionality associated with the security management application can be accessed via the device settings or preferences. In other embodiments the functionality of the security management application can be accessed via selection of an icon on a device menu screen desktop or the like. In yet other embodiments the security management application can be launched when applications are installed or purchased at the user device . Because the functionality described herein with respect to the security management application can be accessed at various times and or in response to various activities it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein an application such as one of the application programs is selected. Although not explicitly shown in the security management application can be configured to generate a list of application programs installed and or otherwise accessible at the user device and to present the list to a user or other entity. Thus the selection of the application program can include selection of an icon or other indicator associated with the application program if desired.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device determines if tiered access is to be configured for an application such as the application program selected in operation . As explained above tiered access as described herein can be used to refer to application programs for which various functionality and or functions can be separately configured to allow and or disallow interactions without unlocking the user device . As such the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to configure different access levels for particular application programs instead of or in addition to enabling or disabling access with the application programs categorically.

As such the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to allow or disallow some types of interactions with application programs when the user device is locked. In one contemplated example a user may be able to author short message service SMS messages while the user device is locked but may be disallowed from authoring multimedia message service MMS messages while the user device is locked. As such while both SMS and MMS messaging may be enabled by a single messaging application a user may configure these two functions of the messaging program separately in some embodiments thereby allowing a user to provide tiered access to the messaging application. Because this example of tiered access is merely illustrative this embodiment should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the user device determines in operation that tiered access is not to be configured the method proceeds to operation . In operation the user device can set one or more access controls for the application program . As such it can be appreciated that in operation the user device can configure one or more settings for allowing or disallowing access to the application program when the user device is in a secured or locked state and or at other times. According to various embodiments a user device can present a user interface for setting access controls for the application program . The list can be presented in a user interface with various types of UI controls for specifying a choice or setting associated with the application program .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device saves settings reflecting the access set in operation . In some embodiments upon exiting the user interface the user device can store data reflecting the access control or other security setting associated with the application program . The access control security setting or other data can be stored in a database or other data structure at the user device and or at a remote data storage device. Thus a user can specify that a particular application program will be accessible and or will be inaccessible when the user device is in a locked state. These and other settings and or configurations with regard to access controls can be specified in operation .

According to various embodiments the user device can save the access settings as a list of application programs with binary indications such as yes no true false 0 1 or the like that indicate whether or not access to the application programs is allowed when the user device is locked. In some other embodiments the user device can save the indications for example by maintaining a list of application programs that can be accessed when the user device is locked by maintaining a list of application programs that cannot be accessed when the user device is locked or the like. Because the settings can be saved in a number of ways it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the user device determines in operation that tiered access is to be configured for the application program selected in operation the method proceeds to operation wherein an application function is selected. Although not explicitly shown in the security management application can be configured to generate a list of application functions associated with the application program selected in operation and to present the list to a user or other entity. Thus the selection of the application program can include selection of an icon or other indicator associated with the application program if desired.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device can assign a function access control to the application function selected in operation . It should be appreciated that one or more functions associated with an application program can be presented to a user in a user interface with one or more UI controls for specifying a setting or preference with regard to access controls for the one or more functions. Thus a user can specify that a particular function will be accessible and or will be inaccessible when the user device is in a locked state. These and other settings and or configurations with regard to access controls can be specified in operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device determines if the application being analyzed for tiered access controls in operations includes another function. In some embodiments the user device can generate a list of functions for the application being analyzed and determine if each of the determined functions has been configured with regard to access control in operation . In some other embodiments the user device can present the list of functions in a user interface with UI controls for setting the access controls.

In some embodiments the user interface can include an ACCEPT DONE OKAY COMMIT or other UI control for indicating that configuration of the access controls has been completed. As such operation can include receiving data indicating selection of a UI control and or analysis of functions associated with the application being configured. Because the user device can be configured to determine that additional functions are or are not included in the application in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

Turning now to aspects of a method for managing application access settings will be described in detail according to another illustrative embodiment. The method begins at operation wherein the user device launches the security management application . In the method the security management application can be launched in response to powering on the user device in response to bringing the user device out of a sleep mode and or otherwise encountering a lock screen of the user device . In one contemplated example embodiment the user device is picked up by a person during an emergency situation wherein the person is not an authorized user of the user device . In another contemplated example the user device is picked up by a person at an office factory or the like wherein the person is not the authorized user of the user device but the person is a member of an organization with which the user device is associated. Other embodiments are contemplated and are possible for activating the security management application . As such it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

According to various embodiments the security management application can be launched each time the user device is powered on or brought out of a sleep mode. The security management application can determine and apply a security policy or other security settings associated with the user device . As disclosed herein the security settings can define among other things application programs and or functions of application programs that are to be made available to a user of the user device when the user device is locked. The security management application also can be configured to determine based upon various considerations discussed in more detail below if the security settings are to be overridden at a particular time.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device collects sensor data and or other information at the user device . According to various embodiments the user device can collect the sensor information by accessing various onboard sensors associated with the user device and or remote sensors in communication with the user device . According to various embodiments for example the user device can collect the sensor information from for example accelerometers gyroscopes compasses and or other orientation sensors light sensors proximity sensors temperature sensors air quality smoke fire and or chemical sensors biometric devices microphones decibel meters and or other sound sensors cameras and or other optical devices or detectors infrared sensors and or other sensors or devices of the user device and or in communication with the user device . The user device also can collect general information and or user information such as for example time and date information calendar information such as appointments and or events messaging information or the like.

The user device also can collect location information. According to various embodiments the user device can collect location information using for example global positioning system GPS devices proximity to location beacons radio receivers transmitters and or transceivers cellular network locating devices combinations thereof or the like. While the above list is extensive it should be understood that any technology for locating the user device can be used to provide location information accurate to various levels of granularity such as for example hundreds of meters tens of meters meters and or portions of meters. As such the above examples of location determination devices should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the user device determines if an access control or other security setting associated with the user device is to be overridden. As explained above particularly with respect to the user device can be configured to save access control and or other security settings associated with the user device . Thus in operation the user device can determine based at least partially upon the information collected and or otherwise obtained in operation if the access controls and or security settings are to be overridden.

In one contemplated example the user device may determine based upon an ambient sound level that an emergency situation exists in the proximity of the user device . In another contemplated example the user device may determine based upon a determined location that the user device is located within a place of business associated with the user device . Thus the user device can be configured to determine based upon the location that any person who activates the user device within the place of business is an authorized person who is to be given access to at least some application programs and or functionality of the application programs . Thus a business may configure the user device to recognize that the user device is a business asset and to make itself at least partially available to anyone at the place of business. Because various types of information can be collected by the user device as explained above with reference to operation it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the user device determines in operation that the access controls and or security settings are to be modified the method proceeds to operation . In operation the user device modifies one or more of the settings associated with the access controls and or other security settings. Thus for example the user device can indicate that a particular application program and or functionality associated with a particular application program is to be allowed even if a security setting or access control conflicts with such an indication. Additionally or alternatively the user device can authorize types groups and or categories of application programs or functionality of application programs in response to such a determination. As such it should be understood that the user device can be configured to modify any number of the settings in operation .

According to various embodiments the user device can modify the settings for a single instance of an application program for a time limit and or for other amounts of time instances of activity or the like. Thus in the event of an emergency for example the user device can modify the settings or access controls for a single interaction with the user device and then the settings can revert to their previous settings. If the user device is again activated after the emergency is over the user device can be configured to activate the security management application again. In this subsequent activation of the security management application the security management application can determine if the settings are to be modified again and or if the security policy access controls and or other security settings are to be applied without modification. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method also can proceed to operation from operation if the user device determines that the access controls or other security settings are not to be overridden. In operation the user device can apply the access control settings. It can be appreciated from the description of operations that the user device can apply the access controls and or security settings as previously saved and or as modified in operation . As such the user device can allow access to the application programs and or functionality of the application programs based upon the security settings and or determined conditions in proximity to the user device . From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

Turning now to UI diagrams showing various aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for providing management of application access will be described according to various illustrative embodiments. shows an illustrative screen display A generated by a device such as the user device for example by execution of the security management application described herein. It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

Although not shown in the screen display A can include various menus and or menu options. The screen display A also can include an access control management list . The access control management list can include a number of rows A I hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as rows . The rows can correspond to applications for which access controls can be configured as disclosed herein. It should be understood that access controls for applications such as the application programs described herein can be provided as settings or configurations within the application programs in addition to or instead of presentation in the access control management list shown in . As such the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Each of the rows can include an indication of the application program to which the row corresponds. The rows also can include one or more UI controls A I hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as UI controls . The UI controls can be used to set access controls and or security settings for the application program to which the row corresponds and or for accessing a tiered access control menu for the application program . For example as shown with respect to the row F the UI control F can be used to access a tiered access control list for the application program to which row F corresponds namely a map application. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

It can be appreciated that the UI controls can be used to enable access to the application programs through a lock screen without entering a passcode password biometric indicator or other data for accessing full functionality associated with the user device . As such the UI controls A E and G I can be used to turn on or off lock screen access to the application programs . The UI control F can be used to access additional and or alternative settings associated with tiered access as mentioned above and as illustrated and described below with reference to .

While only single UI controls are shown in the screen display A it should be understood that multiple UI controls corresponding to multiple preferences settings and or configurations can be presented. For example in some embodiments users can define particular gestures that can be used to access functionality associated with the application programs through the lock screen such as for example taps at certain locations on display screen movements or gestures on the display screen movements or gestures at or near the user device sounds or voice commands movements of the user device or the like. As such the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Referring now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for providing management of application access are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display B generated by a device such as the user device . In some embodiments the screen display B can be generated by the user device in response to detecting a tap touch gesture keystroke voice command or other input for activating the UI control F shown in . Because the illustrated access control management list the rows and or the UI controls are merely illustrative of one contemplated embodiment it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display B includes an application function access control list . The application function access control list can be used to allow users to control various functions of a particular application program as described herein. Because the map application illustrated in is merely illustrative of one application for which tiered access can be configured it should be understood that the application function access control list and the contents thereof are merely illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The application function access control list includes one or more rows A E hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as rows . The rows can correspond to one or more functions associated with the application program with which the application function access control list corresponds. The rows can include indicators for indicating a particular function or functionality associated with the application program for which access controls are to be configured. The rows also can include UI controls A E hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as UI controls . The UI controls can be used to control access controls and or other security settings associated with the functions and or functionality of the application programs indicated by the indicators . While only single UI controls are shown in the screen display B for each of the rows it should be understood that multiple UI controls corresponding to multiple preferences settings and or configurations can be presented. As such it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As shown in a user can turn on or turn off access for the functions of the application program shown in by way of selection of the UI controls via touch gestures made with a finger . Because other input mechanisms are possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. As explained above the user can specify by way of the screen display B whether the particular functions shown in are or are not to be accessible without first unlocking the user device . As explained above these settings can be saved. Additionally it should be understood that these settings can be overridden based upon environmental and or other conditions or data as explained above with reference to .

In additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for management of application access are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. shows an illustrative screen display C generated by a device such as the user device for example by execution of the security management application described herein. It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the user device is displaying a lock screen . The lock screen can include various types of information in addition to or instead of the illustrated information. In the illustrated embodiment the lock screen includes a time and date display and a UI control for unlocking the user device . According to various embodiments the UI control when activated by a user or other entity can cause the user device to present a passcode screen not illustrated . The passcode screen can be used to enter a passcode for unlocking the device. According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a user may wish to access functionality associated with the device without first entering a passcode or accessing a passcode screen for various reasons. For example the user may be driving and may not wish to divert his or her attention to enter a passcode. Alternatively a user may not know a passcode for the user device but may wish to access some application programs as described herein for various purposes.

As such the lock screen can include a UI control the selection of which can cause the user device to display application programs and or functionality of application programs that can be accessed without first entering a passcode. In some embodiments as described herein the UI control can be omitted and the application programs and or functionality of the application programs can be displayed without interacting with a UI control . Rather as mentioned above the application programs and or functionality of the application programs can be displayed in response to various gestures voice commands keystrokes and or other input. As such the illustrated embodiment should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. In some embodiments the UI control can correspond to a structured UI for listing freely accessible apps for example if a user does not remember gestures for accessing the applications and or if some applications do not have gestures associated with them.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for providing management of application access are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display D generated by a device such as the user device . The screen display D can be but is not necessarily displayed by the user device in response to a user selecting the UI control illustrated and described above with reference to and or in response to other input such as gestures taps voice commands or the like. Because the screen display D can be displayed at other times it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As shown in the user device can be configured to display an application access screen or other user interface for providing a list of application programs and or functionality of application programs that are accessible via the lock screen . Thus the application access screen can provide UI controls such as icons for accessing the available application programs and or functionality of the application programs .

As explained above some application programs can be configured to provide tiered access to the application programs . As such in some embodiments the functions of the application programs can be displayed on the application access screen . In some other embodiments icons or UI controls for accessing application programs that have tiered access wherein one or more functions of the application program are and or are not accessible via the lock screen are displayed. When the application program is accessed via the application access screen only functions that have been allowed function and or are displayed. Thus unavailable functions can be shaded omitted from a display and or displayed with an indication that a passcode must be entered or another action taken to unlock the user device and or the associated functionality of the application program . It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

According to various implementations the user device can include and or can use any combination of the devices disclosed herein including but not limited to the mobile communications device the Internet capable device and or the communications device to access web pages or other resources to access the server computer to transmit and or receive the data and or for other interactions between the user device the server computer and or other entities not illustrated . As such it should be understood that the sender device can interact with the server computer and or other devices networks services or nodes via any number and or combination of devices and networks.

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS and or iOS families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION the ANDROID family of operating systems from GOOGLE INCORPORATED other operating systems and the like. Additionally or alternatively the operating system can include open source operating systems such as for example the TIZEN and or BOOT2GECKO operating systems or other proprietary operating systems. Because other operating systems can be included the above examples should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules described herein. In some embodiments for example the program modules include the application programs the security management application and or other applications or software described herein. These and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store the data a security policy and or security settings access control lists and or other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves signals and or other transitory and or intangible communication media per se.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that systems and methods for management of application access have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

