---

title: Configuration-enabled motor drive safety
abstract: A safety-rated industrial device, such as a motor drive, is provided with a safety subsystem that is initially bypassed as a factory default mode. While the safety subsystem is disabled, the device operates as a standard non-safety device, allowing users to perform operations with the device (e.g., turning a motor in the case of motor drives) without requiring safety input devices or a safety controller to be connected to the device. The device continues to operate as a standard non-safety device until a proper safety configuration is applied to the device, whereby the device's safety subsystem is retentatively enabled and the device begins operating as a safety-rated device. While the safety subsystem is enabled, certain device operations that were permitted during standard mode independently of an attached safety controller or safety input devices are made contingent on the monitored status of an associated safety system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563180&OS=09563180&RS=09563180
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09563180
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140228
---
The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to motor drives or other industrial devices having safety features that can be initially bypassed and subsequently enabled in response to receipt of a safety configuration.

Many industrial automation systems include safety rated devices with integrated safety subsystems that prevent or disable certain potentially unsafe device operations until a set of defined safe conditions are satisfied. For example safety rated motor drives e.g. variable frequency drives servo drives etc. are often configured to prevent the drive from turning a motor until the drive s safety features are properly configured and all defined safety conditions are satisfied. In the case of stand alone drives drives that operate independently of an external controller this means that the user cannot instruct the drive to turn its associated motor even in a pre installation testing scenario until the drive s safety configuration is defined and the safety input devices connected to the drive s safety inputs are confirmed to be in their respective safe states. In the case of networked safety drives drives that operate under supervision of a safety controller that communicates with the drive over a network the drive is prevented from turning a motor until the drive is connected to a properly configured safety controller and fully integrated into the larger safety system. Other safety related devices including but not limited to stand alone and networked servos enforce similar restrictions on certain operations until the device has been configured with a proper safety configuration.

During start up or testing of an industrial system that includes such safety rated devices system designers often have need to execute a restricted operation e.g. test run a motor to be controlled via a safety rated motor drive before the safety configuration is in place. This especially problematic in the case of networked safety devices since the device must be networked to a configured safety controller before these restricted operations will be permitted. This creates an additional hardship during testing and installation since the system designers may wish to perform these operations well before the rest of the safety system is in place.

The availability of both standard and safety rated drives and other devices can also render inventory management more difficult. For example a plant facility that utilizes both standard and safety rated drives in their industrial systems must maintain both types of drives in inventory for replacement purposes.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial safety devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to networked safety rated devices that initially bypass safety functionality until a valid user safety configuration is provided. For example a safety rated motor drive may include a safety subsystem that is initially disabled while the device is in its initial default e.g. out of box or OOB state. Although the motor drive includes a running safety subsystem the motor drive behaves as a standard non safety motor drive and thus allows a user to perform operations that would otherwise be restricted if the safety subsystem were not bypassed. Thus the drive allows the user to turn the motor without being in communication with a properly configured safety controller. The drive continues to operate in this standard mode until a proper safety configuration is applied to the drive e.g. the drive is networked to a configured safety controller and the controller assumes ownership of the drive s safety subsystem which enables the drive s safety subsystem and places the drive in safety mode. This transition to safety mode is retentive such that the drive is maintained in safety mode even if power to the drive is cycled. If a safety configuration is not applied the drive can be operated as a standard non safety drive indefinitely and used in an industrial system that does not require functional safety.

Motor drives servos or other safety rated devices having such configuration enabled safety features offer a number of benefits. For one since the drives are provided to the end user preconfigured to operate in standard non safety mode the user is free to command the drive to turn its associated motor or to perform other operations that would otherwise be restricted if the drive s safety subsystem was enabled. This affords the user a greater degree of flexibility during testing and system installation and startup since the drive need not be connected to a safety controller or otherwise configured with a proper safety configuration in order to actuate the motor. This drive behavior is justified by the observation that until the drive is properly configured to operate under the supervision of a safety controller there is no expectation of safety functionality and it is assumed that the drive is being operated under controlled conditions defined by the user of the drive.

Moreover since the drive initially operates in standard mode and enables its safety subsystem in response to application of a proper safety configuration e.g. deployment of the device within a properly configured safety system under the supervision of a safety controller the safety features are initially bypassed without the need to install a hardware jumper across dedicated safety bypass terminals or other such means . As such safety bypass terminals can be omitted from the drive mitigating the possibility of improper or unsafe hardware bypassing of the device s safety features while in production use.

Also the disclosed configuration allows an industrial enterprise to standardize on one type of motor drive or other control device which can be flexibly configured for either standard or safety applications. In this way the plant facility is only required to stock one type of device in inventory for replacement purposes rather than maintaining both standard and safety rated versions of the device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removable affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

To illustrate general distinctions between standard and safety rated devices depict standard and safety rated motor drives respectively. Although some examples herein are described in connection with industrial motor drives e.g. variable frequency drives or the like it is to be appreciated that the configuration enabled safety aspects described herein are applicable to other types of industrial devices for which both standard and safety rated versions are typically available e.g. servos .

Standard motor drive includes a control subsystem which comprises the circuitry processors and or software responsible for controlling the drive s three phase voltage outputs or pulse outputs to motor based on either the local control routine in the case of stand alone drives or in response to commands issued by industrial controller .

In the case of networked safety drives the drive operates under the supervision and control of a safety controller which communicates with the drive over a plant network. Safety controller generally comprises a safety PLC safety relay or similar device configured to monitor an industrial safety system and control the ability of an industrial system or machine e.g. drive to start or run based on the monitored statuses of one or more safety input devices. For such networked configurations safety rated motor drive will maintain STO preventing the drive s outputs from applying torque to motor until the drive s safety subsystem is properly configured. In this regard safety rated motor drive may be configured such that the drive will not operate until the safety controller is properly configured and has taken ownership of the drive.

Although these safety precautions are vital to safe operation during normal operation after the drive has been deployed within an industrial safety system such safety precautions can be a hindrance during testing and installation of the drive. For example during installation and startup of a new industrial system a system designer may need to operate the drive to cause the motor to turn well before the control system including safety controller is in place or ready in order to independently test the motor control portion of the larger industrial system e.g. to tune the motor or to configure certain drive parameters . However for safety rated drives the user is often prevented from operating the drive until the safety controller is properly configured and communicating with the drive forcing the designer to postpone motor control testing or tuning until the safety controller has been installed and configured to recognize the drive .

To mitigate this issue networked safety drives or other types of safety rated devices according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure are configured to operate in accordance with an initial default mode in which the drive behaves as a standard motor drive similar to the standard motor drive described above in connection with . That is although the drive includes a functional safety subsystem the drive is delivered to an end user preconfigured to operate in an initial e.g. out of the box standard mode in which the safety subsystem is operational but bypassed. By this configuration even if the drive is intended to be operated as a safety drive rather than as a standard drive during normal operation the drive can initially be operated as a standard non safety drive during testing installation and startup until the drive is ready to be fully deployed within an operating industrial system. Thus the user is permitted to operate the drive to perform actions such as turning an associated motor that would normally be restricted by the STO function when the safety subsystem is enabled. This standard mode is maintained without the need for a hardware safety bypass e.g. a jumper placed across dedicated safety bypass terminals on the drive and thus such hardware safety bypass mechanisms can be omitted from the drive.

The drive s safety subsystem remains bypassed until a valid safety configuration is applied to the drive. For example the drive may automatically transition from its initial standard mode to safety mode enabling the drive s safety subsystem in response to a determination that an external safety controller e.g. safety controller has taken ownership of the drive s safety subsystem. This transition to safety mode is retentive such that the drive cannot be placed back in standard mode or the drive s safety configuration cleared unless a qualified technician performs a low level multi step operation to place the drive back in its initial out of box OOB state.

Industrial safety drive can include a control subsystem a safety subsystem a safety bypass control component a controller interface component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the control subsystem safety subsystem safety bypass control component controller interface component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the industrial safety drive . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Industrial safety drive may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

Control subsystem can be configured to control the drive s outputs e.g. three phase voltage outputs or pulse output frequency to a motor based on either a local control configuration in the case of stand alone drives or in response to commands issued by a networked safety controller. For safety rated devices other than motor drives control subsystem may perform different functions depending on the type of device. Safety subsystem can be configured to prevent or disable certain potentially unsafe operations of the industrial safety drive until a set of defined safe conditions are satisfied. For example safety subsystem may be configured to initiate Safe Torque Off STO in the drive to disable the drive s outputs to the motor preventing application of torque on the motor if it is determined that a defined set of safety conditions are not satisfied. In some embodiments this determination can be made by an external safety controller that monitors a set of safety input devices e.g. emergency stop buttons light curtains safety mats etc. and instructs the safety subsystem of safety drive to initiate STO if one or more of the monitored safety inputs are determined to indicate a potentially unsafe state.

Safety bypass control component can be configured to control enablement of safety subsystem . While in an initial out of box OOB state the drive s safety bypass control component can be configured to disable safety subsystem thereby allowing safety drive to operate in a standard non safety mode in which the drive s outputs to the motor are controlled exclusively by control subsystem and are not contingent on a state of safety subsystem . Upon detection of a proper safety configuration safety bypass control component can enable safety subsystem causing the safety drive to operate in safety mode.

Controller interface component can be configured to exchange data with a networked industrial safety controller. Controller interface component can be configured to communicate with the safety controller over substantially any type of network including but not limited to control and information protocol CIP networks e.g. DeviceNet ControlNet Ethernet IP etc. Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols or other such networks.

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

When industrial safety drive is powered up while in its initial default state e.g. the drive s immediate out of box state or any time prior to detection of a proper safety configuration the drive executes an internal diagnostic routine to verify proper operation of all internal components. Although the drive is initially configured to operate as a standard drive allowing full operation of the drive independent of a connection to a safety controller or other such safety configuration the drive s safety subsystem is nevertheless powered up at system startup and allowed to run albeit in a disabled state that prevents the safety subsystem from restricting operations performed by the drive s control subsystem . In one or more embodiments if the safety subsystem does not power up correctly the drive will initiate its STO function and disable the drive s control outputs preventing any motors connected to the drive s outputs from running.

The safety bypass control component then makes a determination regarding whether a safety configuration has been applied to the drive. For example the safety bypass control component can determine whether a properly configured safety controller has been networked to the drive via controller interface component or whether the drive has been previously configured for safety operation by a networked safety controller. If the safety bypass control component detects no safety configuration or networked safety controller the safety subsystem remains running but bypassed allowing the drive to continue operating as a standard drive. Until the drive is properly configured for safety via integration into a networked safety system the drive will continue to behave as a standard drive e.g. similar to standard motor drive of and any motors connected to the drive outputs can be actuated without being dependent on a state of an external safety circuit or safety controller. If the drive is intended for use in an industrial system that does not require a safety system the drive may continue to operate in standard mode indefinitely even during normal runtime of the industrial system after system startup provided the drive s safety features are not subsequently configured. Until the drive is properly configured by a safety controller there is no expectation of safety functionality and the drive will continue to behave as a standard motor drive.

During programming the safety controller may be configured to recognize safety drive on the plant network. Accordingly when the safety controller is networked to safety drive the safety controller may query the drive over the network e.g. based on the network address or node identifier assigned to the drive and upon detection of the drive take ownership of the drive s safety subsystem thereby configuring the drive for safe control under the supervision of the safety controller.

In response to determining that the drive has been thus configured by the safety controller safety bypass control component enables the drive s safety subsystem which had previously been running but was disabled per standard mode operation transitioning the drive from standard mode operation to safety mode operation. Once safety subsystem is enabled safety drive operates in a manner similar to safety rated motor drive described above in connection with such that safety subsystem only enables the drive s voltage or pulse outputs to the motor regardless of instructions from the control subsystem if the safety controller allows motor operation e.g. based on a confirmation by the controller that all monitored safety conditions are satisfied .

Once the commitment to operate safety drive in safety mode is made by application of a proper safety configuration as described above safety mode is made retentive and the safety subsystem is enabled each time the drive is powered up and initialized. Once enabled safety subsystem cannot be re disabled i.e. the drive cannot be placed back in standard mode without returning the drive to its factory default state typically a multi step low level operation that can only be performed via specialized drive interface software by authorized users who have knowledge of the drive s low level configuration .

When the drive has been configured by safety controller and safety subsystem has been enabled the drive is configured to only operate under the supervision of the particular safety controller that initially configured the drive and the safety bypass control component prevents the drive from being re integrated into a different safety system under the control of a different safety controller. That is once a given safety controller has taken ownership of the drive s safety subsystem the drive will not allow a different safety controller or safety system to assume supervisory safety control. If a previously configured drive receives a request for control from a different safety controller than that which applied the original safety configuration the safety subsystem will cause the drive to deny the request.

The configuration enabled safety drives described above offer a number of benefits over typical safety rated drives. For example the drive configuration described herein allows system designers to actuate a motor via the drive without connecting a safety controller to the drive as long as the drive is operating in its initially configured standard mode prior to application of a safety configuration. As such the system affords the user the flexibility to perform configuration testing tuning and or debugging on the drive and its associated motor even if the safety system is not yet in place or available thereby simplifying system startup. Moreover since the drive s safety subsystem is disabled internally until a safety configuration is applied external hardware bypasses e.g. bypass switches or dedicated bypass terminals that cause the drive to bypass safety features while the terminals are jumpered together can be omitted from the drive eliminating the possibility of improper or unsafe bypassing of the drive s safety features by plant personnel.

Additionally since the configuration enabled safety motor drive described herein can be operated in either standard mode or safety mode as well as stand alone or networked applications plant engineering maintenance personnel only need to stock one type of motor drive in inventory for replacement purposes since the configuration enabled drive can be configured to suit the requirements of both safety and standard non safety applications.

Although the methodologies of are described in connection with a safety motor drive it is to be appreciated that the general method steps can be implemented in other types of industrial safety devices without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

At a determination is made regarding whether a request for ownership has been received from a networked safety controller. The safety controller may send the request for example in accordance with a safety configuration downloaded from the controller where the safety configuration specifies the drive as a device to be regulated by the safety controller. The configuration may include a network address or other type of node identifier for the motor drive that allows the controller to recognize the drive. Once configured to recognize the drive the safety controller may query the drive s address or identifier when the controller is placed on the plant network.

If it is determined at that no request for ownership has been received from the safety controller at the motor drive the methodology returns to step and the drive continues to operate in standard mode with the drive s safety subsystem bypassed until a request for ownership is received. If it is determined at that a request for ownership has been received from the safety controller the methodology moves to step wherein the drive records the device identifier of the controller e.g. a unique device identifier provided by the safety controller . The controller s device identifier may be included in the request received at step or may be provided to the drive by the safety controller as part of a handshaking routine performed between the drive and the safety controller.

At the drive sends an acknowledgment of the controller s ownership to the safety controller. This represents an acknowledgment that the drive will henceforth operate under the supervision of the safety controller in accordance with the safety configuration programmed on the controller. At in response to receipt of the request for ownership from the safety controller the drive retentively enables its safety subsystem and begins operating with safety integrity under the supervision of the safety controller in accordance with the safety configuration. While operating with safety integrity the drive s safety subsystem will only enable the output stage of the drive s control subsystem the outputs to the motor if permitted by the safety controller. Once enabled the drive s safety subsystem remains enabled even if power to the drive is cycled.

Alternatively if it is determined at step that the safety subsystem has properly initialized a determination is made at step regarding whether a safety configuration is detected on the drive. This can comprise for example determining whether the safety drive was previously configured by a safety controller for safe operation e.g. using methodology described above in connection with . If no safety configuration is detected the methodology moves to step wherein the drive s safety STO subsystem is bypassed allowing the drive to send control outputs e.g. three phase voltage or pulse signaling to an associated motor. Alternatively if a safety configuration is detected at step the methodology moves to step wherein the drive s safety subsystem is enabled. Enablement of the safety subsystem causes the drive s outputs to the motor to be subservient to the safety controller such that the drive is prevented from applying torque to the motor if the safety controller detects a safety demand.

At a determination is made regarding whether another request for ownership is received from a safety controller. If no request is received the drive continues to operate with safety integrity under supervision of the safety controller. If another request for ownership is received at the methodology moves to step where a determination is made by the drive regarding whether an identifier of the safety controller from which the request was received at step matches the safety controller identifier recorded at step . A mismatched identifier indicates that the drive has been relocated to a different safety system under the control of a different safety controller. However one or more embodiments of the configuration enabled safety drives described herein are configured such that when a safety configuration is applied to the drive the drive may only be operated within the context of the particular safety system for which the drive was configured. Accordingly if it is determined at step that the identifier of the safety controller from which the request was received at step does not match the identifier of the safety controller from which the initial request for ownership was received at step the methodology moves to step where the drive denies the request for ownership received at step . Alternatively if the device identifiers are determined to match at step the drive maintains enablement of the safety subsystem and continues to operate with safety integrity under the supervision of the original safety controller.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as standard or safety rated I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

