---

title: Image forming apparatus for detecting an abnormality
abstract: An image forming apparatus capable of selectively executing a plurality of functions includes a first control unit for transmitting an image forming job, a second control unit for receiving the image forming job transmitted from the first control unit and controlling an image forming operation, an abnormality detection unit for detecting an abnormality of the image forming apparatus, a function restriction unit for restricting a function corresponding to the detected abnormality, and an execution unit for executing a first preparation operation if a power of the second control unit is turned on while the function is not restricted by the function restriction unit, and for executing, if the power of the second control unit is turned on while the function is restricted by the function restriction unit, a second preparation operation in which a preparation operation corresponding to the restricted function is excluded from the first preparation operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083824&OS=09083824&RS=09083824
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09083824
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140325
---
The present disclosure generally relates to image forming and more particularly to an image forming apparatus which forms an image on a sheet.

Conventionally there has been provided an image forming apparatus exemplified by a multifunction printer hereinafter referred to as an MFP that includes a scanning function for reading an image from a document and a printing function for printing a scanned image on a sheet. A lamp lighting error and a motor error are examples of the failure states for the scanning function of the MFP. Further abnormality in a fixing unit and abnormality in an intermediate transfer member are examples of the failure states for the printing function thereof.

In a case where the above failure has occurred in the conventional MFP the MFP sends an error code E code corresponding to that failure to an external computer in a remote place so as to inform a service office of that external computer in the remote place that repair work performed by a service engineer may be necessary.

In such a case the functions of the conventional MFP is suspended entirely even if the E code is generated for the failure that has occurred in a part of the functions such as a scanning function. Therefore even a job such as a function for selecting and printing a scanned image previously stored in a hard disk of the MFP which does not use the scanning function cannot be executed. Further a function for simply printing the print data transmitted from the external computer to the MFP cannot be executed as well.

Accordingly when the failure has occurred in the scanning function of the MFP even if the service office in the remote place has been informed of the occurrence of the failure the MFP will have a downtime. During the downtime the printing operation cannot be executed until the service engineer visits the installation site of the MFP to complete the repair work.

In order to solve the above problems Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 2002 254781 discusses a technique which restricts a function having an abnormality while enabling the rest of functions even if the abnormality has occurred in a part of the functions.

Conventionally the MFP has been provided with a power saving mode sleep mode function. In recent years because there has been an increased demand in the MFP with an improved power saving mode function there has been realized an excellent power saving effect by promptly shifting to the sleep mode when the MFP is not in use.

Consequently there is also a need to realize a function for shifting to the sleep mode from a function restriction state in case of the abnormality. Furthermore in the recent sleep mode there has been realized the power saving performance approximately the same as that in the power off period by shutting off the power supply to the unnecessary portions.

However because the operation for returning from the sleep mode is regarded as the same as the normal power on operation a preparation operation for the MFP will be executed when the MFP returns from the sleep mode. Therefore when the MFP returns from the sleep mode in the function restriction state the failure of the portion having an abnormality may get worse or another failure may occur in other parts if the same preparation operation as in a non error state is executed.

For example when a fixing motor that rotates a fixing unit of the MFP cannot rotate properly the failure may occur in a heating member of the fixing unit if the preparation operation of the fixing unit for the return period from the sleep mode is executed repeatedly. Naturally in a case where the failure gets worse or occurs in other parts a user will be requested to have a longer period of downtime than that for repairing the error that has initially occurred.

Furthermore due to the above described situation in which the MFP shifts to the sleep mode more frequently in order to save power there is a high risk in which the failure gets worse or occurs in other parts and thus the downtime thereof will be longer.

Therefore the present disclosure is directed to an image forming apparatus capable of preventing a failure from getting worse while preventing another failure in other parts even if the power is input thereto in a function restriction state.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure an image forming apparatus includes a first control unit configured to transmit an image forming job a second control unit configured to receive the image forming job transmitted from the first control unit and to control an image forming operation an abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality of the image forming apparatus a function restriction unit configured to restrict among a plurality of functions a function corresponding to the abnormality detected by the abnormality detection unit and an execution unit configured to execute a first preparation operation in a case where a power of the second control unit is turned on when the function is not restricted by the function restriction unit and to execute in a case where the power of the second control unit is turned on when the function is restricted by the function restriction unit a second preparation operation in which a preparation operation corresponding to the restricted function is excluded from the first preparation operation.

Further features of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below in detail with reference to the drawings. However the dimensions materials shapes relative positions etc. of structural components discussed in the exemplary embodiments may be changed when necessary in accordance with the structure of an apparatus to which the present disclosure is applied and various conditions. Therefore they are not meant to limit the scope of the disclosure to the forms discussed below.

In a control unit includes a CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and a serial interface I F . Further a control unit includes a CPU a ROM a RAM and a serial I F . The control unit and the control unit are connected to each other via a communication line . As used herein the term unit generally refers to any combination of software firmware hardware or other component that is used to effectuate a purpose.

When an instruction hereinafter referred to as a job for starting a printing operation for example is input to the CPU via an operation unit such as a user interface UI the CPU issues the instruction for starting the printing operation to the serial I F of the CPU of the control unit via the serial I F .

The CPU is configured so as to be capable of driving and controlling a pre fixing conveyance motor a fixing motor a post fixing conveyance motor a manual feeding conveyance motor a sheet discharge conveyance motor A and a sheet discharge conveyance motor B all of which are connected thereto via an input output I O . Further the CPU can detect input signals from a sheet conveyance sensor a pre registration conveyance sensor a sheet feeding pick up sensor sheet discharge sensors and and the like via the I O .

The CPU is configured so as to be capable of receiving an image forming job input via a network I F or a fax I F . Further the CPU includes an image processing unit for processing an image of the input job. The CPU performs image processing such as rasterization or rotation of the image and sends a notification to the CPU via the serial I F .

The CPU is configured so as to be capable of controlling the printer unit . As illustrated in an image forming unit includes a process unit a transfer belt a secondary transfer portion a laser scanner unit and a fixing unit .

A power switch SW serves as a power switch for the respective loads controlled by the control unit and the CPU can arbitrarily turn on and off the power SW via an I O . The power SW cannot be operated by a user. Further a return mode notification I O of the control unit is directly connected to a return mode reception I O of the control unit via a signal line. The scanner unit is an apparatus for reading a document when a copying operation is executed. A main power SW serves as a power switch for turning on and off the entire image forming apparatus.

Next a basic image forming operation will be described. When a job is input via the UI the CPU interprets the job and instructs the CPU to perform a printing operation. The CPU drives and rotates a sheet feeding pick up roller by driving the pre fixing conveyance motor via the I O so that the sheets within a sheet feeding cassette are fed and conveyed one by one. At this time the CPU uses the sheet feeding pick up sensor to monitor whether a feeding operation of the sheets has been performed normally.

Similarly an operation for conveying the sheets from a manual feeding tray will be described. In a state where the sheets are placed on the manual feeding tray the CPU drives the manual feeding conveyance motor via the I O when an instruction for conveying the sheets from the manual feeding tray is input via the UI . With this operation a manual feeding pick up rollers rotates and feeds the sheets placed on the manual feeding tray one by one.

In the same manner as that in the operation for feeding the sheets from the sheet feeding cassette the CPU monitors the pre registration conveyance sensor to determine whether the feeding operation has been performed normally. In addition there is provided a manual feeding sheet presence sensor for determining whether the sheets are placed on the manual feeding tray .

On the other hand the CPU causes the process unit to start the image forming operation while adjusting the timing thereof with the timing of the sheet arriving at the secondary transfer portion . The process unit includes a photosensitive drum a development unit a charging roller and a photosensitive drum cleaner.

In the process unit after a surface of the photosensitive drum is charged a latent image is formed on the photosensitive drum caused by a laser emitted from the laser scanner unit . Then the formed latent image is developed on the photosensitive drum with toner stored in the development unit. Thereafter a primary transfer bias is applied to the toner image developed on the photosensitive drum at a primary transfer portion and the toner image is transferred onto the transfer belt . The toner image transferred onto the transfer belt is conveyed to the secondary transfer portion by the rotation of the transfer belt .

Further the CPU monitors the pre registration conveyance sensor to detect the position of the sheet conveyed by conveyance rollers A conveyance rollers B and conveyance rollers C . Then based on the timing at which a leading end of the sheet has reached the pre registration conveyance sensor the CPU controls the conveyance of the sheet to cause the leading end of the sheet to match a leading end of the toner image on the transfer belt at the secondary transfer portion . For example in a case where the sheet has reached earlier than the toner image the CPU causes the sheet to stop for a predetermined time at pre registration conveyance rollers and restarts the conveyance operation.

Thereafter a secondary transfer bias is applied to the sheet and the toner image that have reached the secondary transfer portion so that the toner image is transferred to the sheet. After the secondary transfer processing the sheet is conveyed to a conveyance belt so as to be conveyed to the fixing unit . Then the toner image on the sheet is heated and fixed thereon by the fixing unit .

When the leading end of the sheet on which the fixing processing has been performed reaches the sheet conveyance sensor the CPU determines whether to convey the sheet to any of a conveyance path A a conveyance path B or a conveyance path C according to the job content previously instructed via the UI . Then the CPU switches the conveyance destination of the sheet which is conveyed by a conveyance roller by switching a switching member A and a switching member B .

Specifically the CPU controls the switching member A and the switching member B according to the instructed job contents such as whether to perform one sided printing or two sided printing whether to discharge the sheet to any of a sheet discharge portion A a sheet discharge portion B or a sheet discharge portion C .

The sheet that has been conveyed to the conveyance path B is further conveyed to the downstream thereof by conveyance rollers E . Subsequently the sheet is conveyed to a conveyance path D so as to be conveyed in the direction of the sheet discharge portion B or the sheet discharge portion C . The sheet conveyed to the conveyance path D is conveyed by sheet discharge rollers F sheet discharge rollers G and sheet discharge rollers H all of which are driven by the sheet discharge conveyance motor A .

If the CPU is instructed to discharge the sheet to the sheet discharge portion B the CPU switches a switching member to convey the sheet to a conveyance path and discharges the sheet to the sheet discharge portion B . If the CPU is instructed to discharge the sheet to the sheet discharge portion C the CPU switches the switching member to a conveyance path . Then the sheet is conveyed by sheet discharge rollers I sheet discharge rollers J and sheet discharge rollers K all of which are driven by the sheet discharge conveyance motor B so as to be discharged to the sheet discharge portion C .

In a case where two sided printing is performed on the sheet the sheet is conveyed to the conveyance path A so as to be conveyed to a two sided reversing conveyance path D by two sided conveyance rollers A two sided conveyance rollers B two sided conveyance rollers C two sided conveyance rollers D and two sided conveyance rollers E . Then when a rear end of the sheet has passed via the two sided conveyance rollers D the CPU switches a switching member in the direction of two sided conveyance rollers F and causes the respective rollers to rotate in the reverse direction. Thereafter the sheet is conveyed by the two sided conveyance rollers F two sided conveyance rollers G two sided conveyance rollers H and two sided conveyance rollers I so as to be conveyed to and received by the conveyance rollers C .

When the entire job has been completed the CPU informs the CPU of completion of the job. Further the above described basic image forming operation is merely an example and thus the present disclosure is not limited to the above configuration.

In this flowchart processing for detecting the abnormality of the fixing motor will be described. In the present exemplary embodiment a direct current DC motor is employed as the fixing motor and the CPU determines whether an error has occurred therein by causing a rotational stability detection unit to detect the rotational stability.

When the job is started in step S the CPU starts driving the fixing motor . Then in step S the CPU determines whether the rotational stability detection unit is turned on. In a case where the rotational stability detection unit is turned on YES in step S the CPU determines that the fixing motor is rotating stably and ends the processing of the flowchart.

On the other hand in a case where the rotational stability detection unit is not turned on NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines whether the rotation time of the fixing motor exceeds time Tf. In a case where the rotation time thereof does not exceed the time Tf NO in step S the processing returns to step S. On the other hand in a case where the rotation time of the fixing motor exceeds the time Tf YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU fixes the occurrence of the error based on the state that the fixing motor does not rotate stably and ends the processing of the flowchart.

First in step S the CPU clears function restriction information stored in the EEPROM . Next in step S the CPU wait until any error has been detected. In a case where the error has been detected YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S by taking the safety of respective units into consideration the CPU executes emergency stop processing. The emergency stop processing refers to processing for forcibly turning off the heater of the fixing unit or stopping the sheet conveyance control which is performed when abnormalities have occurred.

Next in step S the CPU informs the CPU via the serial I F that the image forming apparatus has shifted to the function restriction state. Thereafter in step S the CPU writes the function restriction information into the EEPROM and ends the processing of the flowchart.

First in step S the CPU waits until the notification of the function restriction information is received from the CPU . In a case where the notification of the function restriction information is received from the CPU YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU causes the UI to display a message indicating that the image forming apparatus has shifted to the function restriction state and ends the processing of the flowchart.

First in step S the CPU waits until the job has been received. In a case where the CPU has received the job via the UI or the network I F YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU clears a sleep mode timer Tsleep and starts the time count.

In the sleep mode the power supply to the CPU is shut off while maintaining the power supply to the CPU . The CPU uses the sleep mode timer Tsleep to determine whether to cause the image forming apparatus to shift to the sleep mode. Processing for shifting to the sleep mode will be described below in detail.

Next in step S the CPU determines whether the function used for the job is restricted. In a case where the function therefor is not restricted NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU starts the job. In a case where the function therefor is restricted YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU causes the UI to display a message indicating that the job cannot be executed and ends the processing of the flowchart.

In the copying function a document scanned by the scanner unit is printed by the printer unit . In the printing function print data received via the network I F is printed by the printer unit . In the scanning transmission function the document scanned by the scanner unit is transmitted to an external computer via the network I F as digital data. In the scanning storage function the document scanned by the scanner unit is stored in the RAM or a hard disk drive HDD not illustrated of the image forming apparatus.

If the printer unit becomes the function restriction state the copying function and the printing function are unavailable because the printing operation cannot be executed. On the other hand the scanning transmission function and the scanning storage function are available because the printing operation does not have to be executed. On the contrary if the scanner unit becomes the function restriction state only the printing function which can be used without scanning the document is available although the other functions cannot be used.

Furthermore if the network I F becomes the function restriction state the copying function and the scanning storage function which do not require communication with the external devices are available although the other functions are unavailable. As described above the screen illustrated in will be displayed when the content of the received job cannot be executed because the function used therefor is restricted.

First in step S the CPU determines whether the job is being executed. In a case where the job is being executed YES in step S the CPU waits until the job is completed and advances the processing to step S. After the job has been completed NO in step S in step S the CPU determines whether a sleep mode SW is pressed. In a case where the sleep mode SW is pressed YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S.

In a case where the sleep mode SW is not pressed NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines whether a count value Tsleep of the sleep mode timer exceeds a predetermined time Thsleep. In a case where the count value Tsleep is equal to or less than the predetermined time Thsleep Tsleep Thsleep NO in step S the processing returns to step S.

When the job is started in step S of the sleep mode timer Tsleep will be cleared. In other words if the CPU does not receive the job before the time Thsleep has elapsed after the sleep mode timer starts counting the time the image forming apparatus will shift to the sleep mode.

Therefore in a case where the CPU determines that the count value Tsleep is greater than the predetermined time Thsleep Tsleep Thsleep YES in step S the CPU advances the processing to step S. Then in step S the CPU turns off the power SW . With this operation the CPU shuts off the power supply to the respective loads controlled by the control unit and the CPU to cause the image forming apparatus to shift to the sleep mode and ends the processing of the flowchart.

A configuration start request C1 is a communication command for the CPU to inform the CPU that the configuration is started. The CPU receives the configuration start request C1 and notifies the CPU of a configuration start response C2. The CPU receives the configuration start response C2 and notifies the CPU of a system information notification C3.

Through the system information notification C3 the notification of characteristics of the image forming apparatus such as productivity and printer resolution are sent. The CPU receives the system information notification C3 and performs image formation according to the characteristics thereof.

Further after the CPU has received a system information response C4 the CPU notifies the CPU of a color information request C5. The color information request C5 is a command for notifying the CPU of the color information included in the printer unit . For example when the image forming apparatus is a full color image forming apparatus the CPU sends a color information response C6 to notify the CPU of that the image forming unit supports four colors including yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K .

Next the CPU is notified of a sheet information request C7. Through the sheet information request C7 the CPU requests the information on the sheet feeding cassette and a sheet feeding cassette included in the printer unit . Accordingly the CPU notifies the CPU of the sheet information for example information on a sheet size and a remaining amount of the sheets through a sheet information response C8.

Finally the configuration will be completed when the CPU notifies the CPU of a configuration end request C9 while the CPU responds thereto with a configuration end response C10.

Next content of the preparation operation that is to be executed when the power is turned on or the image forming apparatus returns from the sleep mode will be described with reference to Table 2. The function restriction state will be described by taking the printer unit as an example of the function restricted portion.

The high voltage checking is an operation for checking whether the high voltages of the process unit the transfer belt and the secondary transfer portion are output correctly. After executing the high voltage checking the high voltage adjustment is executed. The high voltage adjustment is an operation for determining and adjusting the output of the high voltage according to the environment.

Next the development unit initial rotation is an operation for stirring the toner within the development unit. Further the fixing unit startup is an operation for making the fixing unit be capable of executing the job by supplying power to the heater of the fixing unit to adjust the temperature of the fixing unit .

The above described preparation operations will be executed when the power is turned on in a usual manner or when the image forming apparatus returns from the sleep mode. However if the above preparation operations are executed in the function restriction state being caused by the abnormalities of the printer unit for example if power is supplied to the heater even though the fixing motor does not activate due to the abnormalities a fixing unit roller may possibly be fused with an excessive heat.

First in step S the CPU determines whether the sleep mode SW has been pressed. In a case where the sleep mode SW has been pressed YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines the return mode to be a second return mode.

On the other hand in a case where the sleep mode SW has not been pressed NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines whether the job has been input. In a case where the job has been input YES in step S the CPU determines that the job has been received via the network I F in the sleep mode and advances the processing to step S. In step S the CPU determines the return mode to be the second return mode.

In step S in a case where the job has not been input NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines the return mode to be a first return mode. In the first return mode the image forming apparatus returns when the main power switch is turned on.

The return mode determined by the flowchart in is included in the system information notification C3 of the command communication illustrated in so that the CPU is notified of the return mode. Further the determined return mode may be included in the configuration start request C1 for example so that the CPU is notified of the return mode.

In step S when the power SW is turned on to input the power to the CPU the CPU reads the information stored in the EEPROM . Then in step S the CPU determines whether the function restriction information is stored in the EEPROM . In a case where the function restriction information is not stored therein NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S.

On the other hand in a case where the function restriction information is stored therein YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU waits until the system information notification C3 is received from the CPU . In a case where the CPU is notified of the system information notification C3 YES in step S the CPU advances the processing to step S. In step S the CPU determines whether the return mode is determined to be the second return mode.

In a case where the return mode is determined to be the second return mode YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU starts the preparation operation for the function restriction state. For example in a case where the preparation operation for the function restriction state being caused by the abnormalities of the printer unit is executed the CPU executes the preparation operation excluding the preparation operation corresponding to the abnormalities of the printer unit . Specifically as illustrated in Table 2 the CPU executes the preparation operation excluding the respective operations of the high voltage checking the high voltage adjustment the development unit initial rotation and the fixing unit startup.

On the other hand in a case where the return mode is determined to be the first return mode NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU starts the normal preparation operation. In other words as illustrated in Table 2 the CPU executes the preparation operation including the respective operations of the high voltage checking the high voltage adjustment the development unit initial rotation and the fixing unit startup.

As described above according to the present exemplary embodiment when the image forming apparatus returns from the sleep mode in the function restriction state it is possible to prevent the failure from getting worse while preventing another failure in other parts.

In a second exemplary embodiment the CPU notifies the CPU of the return mode through the return mode notification I O and the return mode reception I O .

In a case where the return mode is determined to be the second return mode in the flowchart of the CPU turns on the return mode notification I O . On the other hand in a case where the return mode is determined to be the first return mode in the flowchart of the CPU turns off the return mode notification I O .

In step S when the power SW is turned on to input the power to the CPU the CPU reads the information stored in the EEPROM . Then in step S the CPU determines whether the function restriction information is stored in the EEPROM . In a case where the function restriction information is not stored therein NO in step S the processing proceeds to step S.

On the other hand in a case where the function restriction information is stored therein YES in step S the processing proceeds to step S. In step S the CPU determines whether the return mode notification I O is turned on. In a case where the return mode notification I O is turned on YES in step S the return mode is determined to be the second return mode. Therefore the CPU advances the processing to step S and in step S the CPU starts the preparation operations for the function restriction state. For example in a case where the preparation operation for the function restriction state being caused by the abnormalities of the printer unit is executed as illustrated in Table 2 the CPU executes the preparation operation excluding the respective operations of the high voltage checking the high voltage adjustment the development unit initial rotation and the fixing unit startup.

On the other hand in a case where the return mode notification I O is turned off NO in step S the return mode is determined to be the first return mode. Therefore the CPU advances the processing to step S and in step S the CPU starts the normal preparation operation. In other words as illustrated in Table 2 the CPU executes the preparation operation including the respective operations of the high voltage checking the high voltage adjustment the development unit initial rotation and the fixing unit startup.

In the exemplary embodiments described above if an error occurs in a part the fixing unit of the printer unit the entire printer unit shifts to the function restriction state. However if an error occurs in any of image forming stations other than that of black the black image forming station is operable. Therefore if an error such as failure of a motor configured to drive a photosensitive drum occurs in any of image forming stations of yellow magenta and cyan the printer unit may be configured to shift to a function restriction state in which a color image formation cannot be executed instead of shifting to a function restriction state in which operations of the entire printer unit are restricted. In such a case the printer unit can execute a monochrome image formation.

When the printer unit shifts to the function restriction state in which a color image formation cannot be executed if a return mode is the first return mode initialization operations for four image forming stations of yellow magenta cyan and black are executed. On the other hand if a return mode is the second return mode an initialization operation for the black image forming station is executed while initialization operations for the image forming stations of yellow magenta and cyan are not executed.

Thus when the printer unit returns from the sleep mode in a function restriction state in which a part of functions thereof cannot be executed unnecessary initialization operations can be avoided.

As described above according to the present exemplary embodiment when the image forming apparatus returns from the sleep mode in the function restriction state it is possible to prevent the failure from getting worse while preventing another failure in other parts.

Furthermore according to the present exemplary embodiment instead of using the command sequence illustrated in a signal line having an excellent real time property is used to perform direct determination processing. This enables the return mode to be determined more quickly than in the first exemplary embodiment. As a result downtime of the image forming apparatus can be further reduced.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 073276 filed Mar. 29 2013 and No. 2014 017771 filed Jan. 31 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

