---

title: Object moving method and electronic device implementing the same
abstract: A method of moving an object by an electronic device having a touch screen. The method includes recognizing at least two first touch inputs through the touch screen, recognizing transitions of the at least two first touch inputs to adjacent inputs that move adjacent to each other, and moving an object displayed on the touch screen in response to movements of the adjacent inputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606665&OS=09606665&RS=09606665
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09606665
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141103
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application filed on Nov. 1 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0132228 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a method of moving an object in response to a user input regarding a user input module and an electronic device implementing the same.

An electronic device may have a touch panel installed on a touch screen as a user input module. The electronic device can sense the user s gesture regarding the touch screen and in response to the gesture move an object which is displayed on the touch screen from the originally displayed position to a different position.

The present invention has been made to address above mentioned problems and disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention provides a method of intuitively selecting a movement target and moving it.

According to an aspect of the present invention a method of moving an object by an electronic device having a touch screen is provided. The method includes recognizing at least two first touch inputs through the touch screen recognizing transitions of the at least two first touch inputs to adjacent inputs that move adjacent to each other and moving an object displayed on the touch screen in response to movements of the adjacent inputs.

According to another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a display module a touch panel installed on a touch screen of the display module and configured to sense a user input and a processor configured to control the display module in response to the user input wherein the processor is configured to recognize at least two first touch inputs through the touch screen recognize transitions of the at least two first touch inputs to adjacent inputs moving adjacent to each other and move an object displayed on the touch screen in response to movements of the adjacent inputs.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as mere examples. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

An electronic apparatus according to the present invention may be an apparatus having a communication function. For example the electronic device according to the present invention may be at least one of and or combinations of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical appliance an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch home appliances e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner and the like an artificial intelligence robot a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio player various medical appliances e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computerized Tomography CT device an ultrasonography device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a Television TV box e.g. HomeSync of SAMSUNG Electronics Co. Apple TV of APPLE Inc. and Google TV of Google Inc. an electronic dictionary an infotainment device for a vehicle an electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a navigation device a gyrocompass etc. an avionic device a security device an electronic cloth an electronic key a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD unit a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album a piece of furniture having a communication function and or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a projector. It is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the electronic apparatus includes a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module .

The bus is a circuit for interconnecting elements described above and for allowing a communication e.g. by transferring a control message between the elements described above.

The processor receives commands from the above mentioned other elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module and the communication module through for example the bus deciphers the received commands and performs operations and or data processing according to the deciphered commands.

The memory stores commands received from the processor and or other elements e.g. the user input module the display module and the communication module and or commands and or data generated by the processor and or other elements. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each of the programming modules described above may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls and or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for execution of operations and or functions implemented in other programming modules such as the middleware the API and or the application . Further the kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API and or the application can access and then control and or manage an individual element of the electronic apparatus .

The middleware performs a relay function which allows the API and or the application to communicate with and exchange data with the kernel . Further in relation to operation requests received from at least one of an application the middleware performs load balancing in relation to the operation requests by for example giving a priority in using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor and or the memory of the electronic apparatus to at least one application from among the at least one of the application .

The API is an interface through which the application can control a function provided by the kernel and or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing and or character control.

The user input module can receive for example a command and or data from a user and transfer the received command and or data to the processor and or the memory through the bus . The display module can display an image a video and or data to a user.

The communication module can establish a communication between the electronic apparatus and other electronic devices and and or a server . The communication module can support short range communication protocols e.g. a Wireless Fidelity WiFi protocol a BlueTooth BT protocol and a Near Field Communication NFC protocol communication networks e.g. Internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network and a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or any other similar and or suitable communication networks such as a network or the like. Each of the other electronic devices and may be a same type and or different types of electronic apparatus.

Referring to the hardware includes at least one processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor includes at least one Application Processor AP and or at least one Communication Processor CP . The processor may be for example similar to the processor as illustrated in . Although shows the AP and the CP included in the processor the AP and the CP may be included in different Integrated Circuit IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP and the CP may be included in a single IC package.

The AP executes an Operating System OS or an application program to control a plurality of hardware and or software elements connected to the AP and performs processing and calculations of various data including the multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present invention the processor may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP performs functions of managing a data link and or converting a communication protocol in communication between an electronic apparatus e.g. the electronic apparatus including the hardware and or another electronic apparatus connected through a network to the electronic apparatus. The CP may be implemented by for example an SoC. According to an embodiment of the present invention the CP performs at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP performs identification and authentication of a terminal in a communication network by using for example a user identification module e.g. the SIM card . Further the CP provides services such as a voice communication service a video communication service a short message service and a packet data service to a user.

Further the CP controls data transmission and or reception of the communication module . Although the elements including the CP the power management module and the memory are illustrated as being separate from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the CP of the aforementioned elements according to an embodiment of the present invention.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the CP loads a command and or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and or other elements connected thereto in a volatile memory and then processes the same. Further the AP or the CP stores data received from and or generated by at least one of the other elements in a non volatile memory.

The SIM card is a card implementing a SIM and is inserted in a slot formed at a position of an electronic apparatus. The SIM card includes identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID and or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory includes an internal memory and or an external memory . The memory may be for example similar to the memory as illustrated in . The internal memory of includes at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or the like and or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory or the like. According to an embodiment of the present invention the internal memory has a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory further includes a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF drive a Secure Digital SD drive a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD drive a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD drive an extreme Digital xD drive a memory stick and or the like.

The communication module includes a wireless communication module and or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example similar to the communication module as illustrated in . The wireless communication module in may include for example a WiFi module a BT module a GPS receiving module and or a NFC module . For example the wireless communication module can provide a wireless communication function by using a wireless frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card and or a modem for connecting the hardware with a network e.g. Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS and or the like . The NFC module includes a connection node for connection to an NFC antenna.

The RF module performs data transmission reception for example transmission and or reception of an RF signal and or a paged electronic signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and or the like which are not illustrated in . Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting and or receiving an electromagnetic wave in free space in a wireless and or wired communication for example a conductor a conductive wire and or the like.

The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a bio physical sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. The sensor module can measure a physical property and or detect an operation state of an electronic apparatus and convert the measured and or detected information to an electric signal. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include for example an olfactory sensor such as an E nose sensor an Electro MyoGraphy EMG sensor an Electro EncephaloGram EEG sensor an Electro CardioGram ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included in the sensor module .

The user input module includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel of recognizes a touch input in at least one scheme among for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic scheme. Further the touch panel further includes a controller. In the case of the capacitive scheme the touch panel can recognize an indirect touch as well as a direct touch. The direct touch scheme refers to a scheme in which a conductive object e.g. a finger or stylus pen makes direct contact with a touch screen. According to an embodiment of the present invention the indirect touch scheme refers to a scheme in which a conductive material wrapped by a non conductive material e.g. a finger in a glove approaches a touch screen or the non conductive material e.g. a glove in which a finger is placed contacts the touch screen. According to another embodiment of the present invention the indirect touch scheme refers to a scheme in which a finger touches a non conductive object in a state in which the non conductive object for example a cover for protecting a touch screen is placed on the touch screen and is in contact with the touch screen. According to another embodiment of the present invention the indirect touch scheme refers to a scheme commonly called hovering in which a finger is not in contact with a touch screen but approaches the touch screen within a predetermined distance so as to generate an event. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this event the touch panel provides a tactile response to a user. The touch panel may be installed on a screen i.e. touch screen of the display module . For example the touch panel may be implemented in an add on type in which the touch panel is located on the touch screen or an on cell type or an in cell type in which the touch panel is inserted in the display module .

The pen sensor may be implemented for example in the same and or similar method as that of receiving a user s touch input and or by using a separate sheet for recognition. For example a keypad and or a touch key may be used as the key . The ultrasonic input device is a device that can identify data by detecting a sound wave from a terminal to a microphone e.g. a microphone through a pen generating an ultrasonic wave signal and can achieve wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the hardware can receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer and or a server connected with the communication module by using the communication module .

The display module includes a panel and or a hologram . The display module may be for example similar to the display module as illustrated in . For example the panel in may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD and or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may be configured by the touch panel and one module. The hologram may display a three dimensional image in the air by using an interference of light. According to an embodiment of the present invention the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel and or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector and a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a SD drive a Multi Media Card MMC and or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface.

The audio codec can bilaterally convert a voice and an electrical signal to each other. The audio codec converts voice information input and or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone and or the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of photographing a still image and a moving image and includes at least one image sensor e.g. a front lens and or a rear lens an Image Signal Processor ISP and or a flash LED according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The power management module manages power of the hardware . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management IC PMIC a charger IC and or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an IC and or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent introduction of over voltage and or over current from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme and or an electromagnetic scheme can be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery gauge can measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current and or a temperature during the charging. The battery can supply power by generating electricity and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a specific state for example a booting state a message state and or a charging state of the hardware and or a part of the hardware e.g. the AP . The motor can convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the hardware may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting a mobile TV can process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like. Each of elements of the hardware according to the present invention may be configured by one or more components which may have different names according to the type of the electronic apparatus. The hardware according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements and or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. Further some of the elements of the hardware according to the present invention may be combined into one entity which can perform the same functions as those of the elements before the combination.

The term module used in the present invention may refer to for example a unit including at least one combination of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component and or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally configured article and or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit performing at least one function and or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically and or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific IC ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which are known and or will be developed hereinafter.

Referring to the programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic apparatus e.g. the memory as illustrated in . At least a part of the programming module may be configured in software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof. The programming module may include an OS that is implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware to control resources related to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device and or various applications. e.g. applications driven by the OS. For example the OS may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada or the like. Referring to the programming module includes a kernel middleware an API and the applications .

The kernel which may be like the kernel includes a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager and a file system manager. The system resource manager controls allocates and or collects system resources. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver and an audio driver. Further according to an embodiment of the present invention the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver.

The middleware includes a plurality of modules implemented in advance for providing functions commonly used by the applications . Further the middleware provides the functions through the API such that the applications can efficiently use restricted system resources within the electronic apparatus. For example as shown in the middleware includes at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module that a compiler uses in order to add a new function through a programming language while one of the applications is being executed. According to an embodiment of the present invention the runtime library may perform an input output memory management and or a function for an arithmetic function.

The application manager manages a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager can manage Graphical User Interface GUI resources used by a screen. The multimedia manager detects formats used for reproduction of various media files and encodes and or decodes a media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format. The resource manager manages resources such as source code a memory and a storage space of at least one of the applications .

The power manager manages a battery and or power while operating with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and provides power information used for operation. The database manager manages generation search and or change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications . The package manager manages installation and or an update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

For example the connectivity manager can manage wireless connectivity such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager displays and or notifies of an event such as an arrival of a message a promise a proximity notification and the like in such a way that does not disturb a user. The location manager manages location information of an electronic apparatus. The graphic manager manages a graphic effect provided to a user and or a user interface related to the graphic effect. The security manager provides all security functions used for system security and or user authentication. According to an embodiment of the present invention when an electronic apparatus e.g. the electronic apparatus has a telephone call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice and or video communication function of the electronic apparatus.

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through various functional combinations of the aforementioned internal element modules. The middleware can provide modules specialized according to types of OSs in order to provide differentiated functions. Further the middleware may dynamically remove some of the existing elements and or add new elements. Accordingly the middleware may exclude some of the elements described in the various embodiments of the present invention further include other elements and or substitute the elements with elements having a different name and performing a similar function.

The API which may be similar to the API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with a different configuration according to the OS. For example in a case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided for each platform and in a case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The applications which may include an application similar to the application may include for example a preloaded application and or a third party application. The applications may include a home application a dialer application a Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an Instant Messaging IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an email application a calendar application a media player application an album application and a clock application . However the present invention is not limited thereto and the applications may include any other similar and or suitable application.

At least a part of the programming module can be implemented by commands stored in computer readable storage media. When the commands are executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor at least one processor can perform functions corresponding to the commands. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module can be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions and or a process for performing at least one function.

The titles of the aforementioned elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to the present invention may vary depending on the type of the OS. The programming module according to the present invention may include at least one of the aforementioned elements and or may further include other additional elements and or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. The operations performed by a programming module and or other elements according to the present invention may be processed through a sequential parallel repetitive and or heuristic method and some of the operations may be omitted and or other operations may be added.

Referring to the processor e.g. processor of the electronic device e.g. electronic device can control the display module e.g. display module so as to display a number of objects on the touch screen. The user can make a pick up gesture with at least two physical bodies e.g. two fingers with regard to the touch screen. The pick up gesture may be a gesture of picking up at least one object with at least two fingers. For example the pick up gesture can be completed by successively performing a thumb s touch down T1 and forefinger s touch down T2 b pinch in c touch coupling T3 and d touch up. As used herein the touch down may be a gesture of touching different areas of the touch screen with thumb and forefinger respectively. The pinch in may be a gesture of moving thumb and forefinger adjacent to each other while touching the touch screen. The touch coupling may be a gesture of touching thumb and forefinger to each other. The touch up may be a gesture of releasing the touch coupling from the touch screen.

The touch panel e.g. touch panel can sense the above mentioned pick up gesture generate an event corresponding to the pick up gesture and deliver the event to the processor . The processor can analyze the pick up gesture event which has been received from the touch panel and determine respective touch areas of physical bodies. The processor can recognize object s included at least partially in a touch area e.g. touch area . In addition the processor can recognize object s included at least partially in a touch area e.g. touch area . The processor can decide whether any one of the object s included at least partially in the touch area is identical to any one of the object s included at least partially in the touch area or not.

When there is an identical object e.g. object the processor can respond to a touch up and adopt a pick up mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . For example the processor can respond to the user s pick up gesture and control the display module e.g. display module so as to provide a visual feedback indicating that the object is being picked up. For example the visual feedback can include an operation of changing and displaying the attribute e.g. color size transparency shape symbol brightness etc of the corresponding object to distinguish it from other objects. Meanwhile the processor can decide whether the touch area and the touch area at least partially overlap each other or not. When the touch areas at least partially overlap each other the processor can recognize that touch coupling T3 has occurred.

Referring to the user can hover down H1 regarding an object and subsequently make a hovering movement . Hovering down H1 may be a gesture of bringing a physical body adjacent to the touch screen within a predetermined distance. In addition hovering down H1 may be for example touch up which releases the touch of a thumb and a forefinger which are stuck together from the touch screen i.e. releasing the touch of touch coupling T3 . The hovering movement may be a gesture of moving physical bodies e.g. a thumb and a forefinger stuck together while being adjacent to the touch screen within a predetermined distance. Meanwhile hovering up may be a gesture of moving a physical body away from the touch screen beyond the predetermined distance.

The touch panel can sense hovering down H1 and hovering movement generate events corresponding to the gestures and deliver the events to the processor . In response to the gestures the processor can adopt a movement mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . That is the processor can move the object according to the hovering movement . As a result the area in which the object has been positioned becomes empty. In addition the object may overlap another object. In that case the processor can move other objects and to fill the area . As a result the area becomes empty and the processor can move the object to the area in response to the user s gesture e.g. hovering movement gesture or automatically.

Although not illustrated when there is no area to which the object can move the processor can output a notification so that the user can recognize it. For example the notification can include at least one of noti sound noti popup noti vibration noti color and noti icon.

Referring to the user can make a put down gesture with regard to the object using physical bodies e.g. two fingers . For example the put down gesture can be completed by successively performing touch down T3 pinch out and touch ups not illustrated . In this regard the touch down T3 may be a gesture of touching the object with thumb and forefinger which are stuck together for example. The pinch out may be a gesture of moving thumb and forefinger away from each other while touching the touch screen. As a result the touch down T3 can be separated into a number of touch downs e.g. T3 1 and T3 2 . Therefore the pinch out may also be referred to as touch separation. The touch ups may be gestures of releasing the touch of thumb and forefinger which have moved away from each other from the touch screen.

The touch panel can sense the above mentioned put down gesture generate an event corresponding to the put down gesture and deliver the event to the processor . In response to the put down gesture the processor can complete the movement of the object . Specifically the processor can respond to touch down T3 and adopt a put down mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . For example the processor can display the object in the same state as other objects. The processor can respond to pinch out or touch down T3 being separated into T3 1 and T3 2 and recognize that the movement of the object has been completed preliminarily. The processor can respond to touch ups and recognize that the movement of the object has been completed finally.

According to the present invention the operating mode of the object can be changed from the pick up mode to the movement mode and from the movement mode to the put down mode. When the touch has been released in the put down mode the movement of the object can be completed. The operating mode of the object can also be changed from the put down mode to the movement mode when for example touch up has occurred before touch down T3 is separated into T3 1 and T3 2 or when touch up has occurred after T3 1 and T3 2 have been coupled into T3 again.

The pick up gesture hovering movement gesture and put down gesture according to the present invention can be expressed by images as shown in .

It has been described in the above embodiment of the present invention that the processor the display module and the touch panel are a processor a display module and a touch panel respectively. However the present invention is not limited thereto. For example an electronic device can perform the role of the above mentioned processor and an electronic device can perform the role of the above mentioned display module and touch panel. And the electronic device and the electronic device can transmit receive data for the above mentioned pick up movement and put down procedures between each other. Such role assignment can also be applied in the same manner to other embodiments of the present invention described below.

Referring to the user can make a pick up gesture with regard to the touch screen using at least two physical bodies e.g. four fingers . For example the pick up gesture can be completed by successively performing a left forefinger s touchdown T1 left thumb s touchdown T2 right forefinger s touch down T3 and right thumb s touch down T4 b pinch in c touch coupling T5 and d touch up not illustrated .

In response to the pick up gesture the processor e.g. processor can adopt a pick up mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . In response to the pinch in the processor can determine a movement target among objects displayed on the touch screen. For example the processor can calculate touch points e.g. touch coordinates corresponding to T1 T2 T3 and T4 respectively confirm a quadrangular pick up area having the touch points as respective vertices and determine objects and which are included or included at least partially although not illustrated in the pick up area as movement targets.

Referring to the user can hover down H1 with regard to objects and then make a hovering movement . In this regard hovering down H1 may correspond to the above mentioned touch up. In response to hovering down H1 or touch up the processor can adopt a movement mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . First the processor can control the display module so as to provide a visual feedback indicating that the objects gather at the point of hovering down H1 e.g. modify each object as an icon and display it . In response to the hovering movement the processor can move the objects . As a result the pick up area in which the objects have been positioned becomes empty. In addition the objects may overlap another object. In that case the processor can move other objects to fill the pick up area . As a result the area becomes empty.

Referring to the user can make a put down gesture with regard to objects using physical bodies e.g. four fingers . The put down gesture can be completed by successively performing touch down T6 pinch out and touch ups. In this case the touch down T6 may be a gesture of touching objects with left thumb left forefinger right thumb and right forefinger which are in contact with one another for example. The pinch out may be a gesture of moving the four fingers away from one another while touching the touch screen. Accordingly the touch down T6 can be separated into a number of touch downs e.g. T6 1 T6 2 T6 3 and T6 4 . The touch ups may be gestures of releasing the touch downs T6 1 T6 2 T6 3 and T6 4 from the touch screen. The touch panel can sense the above mentioned put down gesture generate an event corresponding to the put down gesture and deliver the event to the processor . In response to the put down gesture the processor can complete the movement of the objects . Specifically the processor can respond to touch down T6 and adopt a put down mode as the operating mode of the electronic device . For example the processor can display the objects in the same state as other objects. The processor can respond to the pinch out or touch downs T6 1 T6 2 T6 3 and T6 4 and recognize that the movement of the objects has been completed preliminarily. The processor can respond to touch ups and recognize that the movement of the objects has been completed finally. Accordingly the processor can control the display module so as to provide a visual feedback indicating that the objects are evenly distributed in the area .

Referring to the user can hover down H1 with regard to an object of page using physical bodies e.g. left forefinger and left thumb . While hovering down H1 the user can make a gesture e.g. drag of touching down T4 a point of the touch screen using another physical body e.g. right forefinger moving the right forefinger and performing touch up at another point of the touch screen. In response to hovering down H1 and dragging the processor can control the display module so as to provide a visual feedback indicating that the object moves from page to page . As a result the object may overlap another object e.g. object that has been on page . In that case the processor can move 632 the object and other objects. As a result the area becomes empty and the processor can move the object to the area in response to the user s gesture e.g. hovering movement gesture or automatically.

Referring to in response to a pick up gesture the electronic device e.g. electronic device can determine a movement target among objects displayed on the touch screen at step S. In response to a hovering movement gesture the electronic device can adopt an object movement mode as the operating mode at step S. In response to a put down gesture the electronic device can preliminarily complete the movement of the object at step S and the electronic device can finally complete the movement of the object at step S.

Referring to the electronic device can recognize first touch down on the touch screen at step . The electronic device can recognize second touch down on the touch screen at step . In addition the electronic device can recognize coupling of the first touch down and the second touch down into one e.g. touch coupling T3 at step . The electronic device can determine at least one object which is positioned at the touch point or touch area of the touch coupling T3 as a movement target. The electronic device can recognize hovering down e.g. hovering down H1 at step . Accordingly the electronic device can move the object which has been determined as the movement target according to the movement of hovering.

Referring to the object which has been determined as a movement target may be in a hovering state at step . For example the hovering state may be a state in which the corresponding object is positioned at a specific point on the touch screen. Alternatively the hovering state may be a state in which the corresponding object is moving. The electronic device can recognize touch down regarding the object which has been determined as a movement target at step . The electronic device can recognize that the touch down is separated into first touch down and second touch down at step . Accordingly the electronic device can recognize that the movement of the object has been completed preliminarily. The processor can respond to releases of the first touch down and the second touch down and recognize that the movement of the object has been completed finally.

In the present invention touches can include a touch by contact of a human body a touch by a physical body having permittivity and a touch by an electronic pen of an electromagnetic induction type. Objects can include those that can be expressed as images such as icons images texts files windows and widgets. Movement modes can include operating modes in which at least two electronic devices exchange information regarding gestures e.g. hovering through near field communication and thereby transmit receive objects between the electronic devices.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the first electronic device e.g. electronic device and the second electronic device e.g. electronic device can be operated in a multi window mode. For example the electronic device can recognize the user s gesture through the user input module and transmit data which is related to the recognized gesture of the user to the electronic device . Then the electronic device can respond to the user s gesture which has been recognized by the electronic device and move the displayed object.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the user can quickly recognize and familiarly use gestures for movement of objects.

The method according to the present invention as described above may be implemented as a program command which can be executed through various computers and recorded in a computer readable recording medium. The recording medium may include a program command a data file and a data structure. The program command may be specially designed and configured for the present invention or may be used after being known to those skilled in computer software fields. The recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM and a flash memory. Further the program command may include a machine language code generated by a compiler and a high level language code executable by a computer through an interpreter and the like.

The embodiments of the present invention and drawings were provided merely to readily describe and to help a thorough understanding of the present invention but are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Therefore it should be construed that all modifications or modified forms drawn by the technical idea of the present invention in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein are included in the scope of the present invention.

