---

title: Methods and apparatus for limiting engine speed
abstract: Some embodiments are directed to an apparatus for limiting engine speed using any one of multiple engine components. The apparatus includes a user interface manually actuable to select at least one of the multiple engine components for limiting engine speed. The user interface includes an identification signal generator and transmitter that is configured to, upon selection of the multiple engine component(s), generate and transmit an identification signal that identifies the engine component(s) that was selected. The apparatus also includes a controller that is configured to, upon receipt of the identification signal, provide an instruction to the identified engine component(s), such that the identified engine component(s) operates to limit engine speed upon occurrence of conditions warranting that engine speed be limited.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09278698&OS=09278698&RS=09278698
owner: HONDA MOTOR CO., LTD.
number: 09278698
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140423
---
The disclosed subject matter relates to methods and apparatus for limiting engine speed including but not limited to engine speed as measured in terms of revolutions per minute in an automotive vehicular context. More particularly the disclosed subject matter relates to limiting the engine speed by controlling at least one of a number of different engine systems or components.

Some related art engines such as internal combustion engines for powering vehicles limit engine speed for various reasons. For example limitations can be placed on engine speed to ensure that the vehicle does not travel faster than a certain maximum speed limit such as 150 mph. Limiting engine speed may also mitigate or avoid engine damage that could occur due to high reciprocating speeds of various components of the engine such as but not limited to the valve springs.

Engine speed can be limited in a variety of ways. For example fuel injection amount and or timing can be controlled when the engine speed exceeds a pre defined limit. Engine speed can also be limited by retarding ignition timing. In particular ignition timing can be retarded to achieve a set engine speed limit such as in a closed loop feedback system or to achieve a pre defined amount when the engine speed exceeds a pre defined limit such as in an open loop feedback system. Engine speed can also be limited by controlling the throttle such as to a set engine speed limit in a closed loop feedback system or to a pre defined amount when engine speed exceeds a pre defined limit in an open loop feedback system.

Some related art engines and engine systems are configured to enable a user of a vehicle such as a vehicle operator driver etc. to control certain aspects of engine performance. However the related art fails to provide the user with the ability to control a vehicle in certain ways for example in the manner in which engine speed is limited. In other words the related art fails to empower the user to determine whether the engine speed is to be limited by any one of controlling fuel injection amount retarding ignition timing and controlling throttle or any combination thereof.

Thus it may be beneficial to empower a user with that ability such as by providing methods and apparatus for enabling a user to control select or otherwise determine the manner in which engine speed is limited which would become effective upon the occurrence of conditions warranting the limiting of engine speed. In some such embodiments the user can select or otherwise determine that engine speed is to be limited by at least one of 1 controlling fuel injection amount and or timing 2 retarding ignition timing and 3 controlling throttle. In other words the user selects or otherwise determines that engine speed is to be limited by any one of or any combination of the above procedures i.e. any one any two or all three of these procedures. The engine speed is then limited according to the selected or determined manner s or procedure s upon the occurrence of conditions warranting the limiting of engine speed. In some of these embodiments the user is provided with the ability to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited while the vehicle is being operated e.g. while the engine is running while the vehicle is being driven etc.

Some embodiments are directed to an apparatus for limiting engine speed using multiple engine components including at least one of a fuel injection system an ignition system and a throttle. The apparatus includes a user interface manually actuable to select at least one of the multiple engine components for limiting engine speed. The user interface includes an identification signal generator and transmitter that is configured to upon selection of the at least one of the multiple engine components generate and transmit an identification signal that identifies the at least one of the engine components that was selected. The apparatus also includes a controller that is configured to upon receipt of the identification signal provide an instruction to the identified at least one of the engine components such that the identified at least one of the engine components operates to limit engine speed upon occurrence of conditions warranting that engine speed be limited.

Some other of the disclosed embodiments are directed to an engine system for limiting engine speed. The engine system includes multiple engine components usable to limit engine speed the multiple components including at least one of a fuel injection system an ignition system and a throttle. The system includes a user interface manually actuable to select at least one of the multiple engine components for limiting engine speed. The user interface includes an identification signal generator and transmitter that is configured to upon selection of the at least one of the multiple engine components generate and transmit an identification signal that identifies the at least one of the engine components that was selected. The system also includes a controller that is configured to upon receipt of the identification signal provide an instruction to the identified at least one of the engine components such that the identified at least one of the engine components operates to limit engine speed upon occurrence of conditions warranting that engine speed be limited.

A few inventive aspects of the disclosed embodiments are explained in detail below with reference to the various figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosed subject matter not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations of the various features provided in the description that follows.

The vehicle shown in includes a pair of front wheels L R and a pair of rear wheels L R. The powertrain can be configured in various ways to drive the wheels. For example the powertrain can be configured to only drive the pair of front wheels L R or only the pair of rear wheels L R. Alternatively the powertrain can be configured to drive both pairs of wheels L R and L R either in a full time mode or in a part time mode. In the full time mode the powertrain is configured to always drive both pairs of wheels L R and L R. Alternatively in the part time mode the powertrain can switch between driving only one of the pairs of wheels and driving both pairs of wheels. This switching can be implemented either manually or alternatively can be implemented automatically such as via an on demand basis where the switching is automatically performed based on available traction at each wheel vehicle dynamic stability etc.

The exemplary embodiment shown in illustrates a front wheel drive powertrain in which the powertrain is configured to only drive the pair of front wheels L R. However as described above embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be applied to other powertrain configurations e.g. rear wheel drive configurations all wheel drive configurations and or any of the other configurations disclosed above.

The powertrain is shown in as including an internal combustion engine a transmission a pair of driveshafts L R and a control system . In general the transmission transfers or transforms torque from the engine to the driveshafts L R and then to the wheels L R. The control system can provide instructions to one or more components of the engine and or the transmission to affect performance thereof.

Embodiments are intended to be applicable to any type of engine. For example the engine can be configured as a reciprocating piston engine a rotary piston engine hybrid engine or any other type of engine. In a rotary piston engine the working chamber can be configured in an epitrochoid shape and the piston can be configured as a three lobed rotor. The piston can revolve around an eccentric portion of the crankshaft as the piston moves within the working chamber so that the cyclic motion of the piston through the working chamber is converted into rotary motion of the crankshaft.

The engine can be configured as a compression ignition engine or as a spark ignition engine. In a compression ignition engine c i engine the air and fuel mixture ignites when the piston compresses the air and fuel mixture. In a spark ignition engine s i engine the air and fuel mixture ignites when electricity travels across the gap between two electrodes of a spark plug while the piston compresses the air and fuel mixture. However the various embodiments can be applicable to other types of ignition systems.

Embodiments are applicable to still further engine types and specifications. For example the c i engine and s i engine can be normally aspirated or have forced induction via turbocharger supercharger etc.

The engine can include any number of working chambers corresponding pistons and connecting rods. For example the engine shown in includes a second piston disposed in and movable within a second working chamber . The crankshaft is also connected to the second piston via a second connecting rod so as to convert the cyclic motion of both pistons into rotary motion.

As indicated above schematically represents the engine as a reciprocating piston s i engine that includes two working chambers two pistons two connecting rods and one crankshaft wherein the connecting rods connect the respective pistons to the crankshaft . The pistons can move within the respective cylinders in a linear reciprocating motion between a top dead center position TDC and a bottom dead center position BDC . shows the first piston at BDC and the second piston at TDC.

The control system can be configured to regulate the operation of the engine at variable speeds and torque outputs based on vehicle load and or one or more ambient or operating conditions. The control system can include elements of an oxygen delivery system a fuel delivery system an ignition system which is omitted from a c i engine a controller which can be referred to as a central processing unit CPU or electronic control unit ECU an engine speed sensor and a user interface .

The engine speed sensor can include any configuration including known related art or later developed technologies. For example the sensor can include a processor and thereby be configured to be a smart sensor able to process the raw data collected by the sensor prior to transmission to the controller . Alternatively the sensor can be configured to be a simple sensor that merely transmits the raw data directly to the controller without any manipulation of the raw data. In some embodiments the sensor is configured to transmit data to the controller without a prompt such as from the controller while the sensor of other embodiments only transmits the data upon receipt of a prompt.

During operation the internal combustion engine can be characterized as operating at an engine speed. This engine speed is a measure of the number of complete revolutions per unit of time where each complete revolution equals 360 degrees of rotation of the crankshaft. Thus the engine speed can be expressed in units of revolutions per minute.

Due to the cyclic motion of one or more components of the internal combustion engine the engine can have a maximum speed of operation above which the one or more of the cyclically moving parts can malfunction or become damaged. This maximum engine speed can be referred to as the redline speed.

The engine s speed can be limited to the redline speed by controlling certain engine components. For example engine speed can be limited by controlling one of the vehicle s fuel delivery system engine throttle and ignition system or any combination of these systems and elements.

Controlling these systems and elements can be performed by certain apparatus that constitute at least in part a governor which can include various elements of the control system including the rotational position or speed sensor engine speed sensor and controller . The engine speed sensor can detect the rotational movement of the crankshaft which thereby provides an indication of engine speed. The controller can be a mechanical control unit that mechanically controls the above systems and elements based on rotational movement of the crankshaft an electronic control unit ECU that performs this control electronically or a hybrid mechanical electrical control unit. Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of governor sensor and controller including known related art and or later developed technologies.

As discussed in detail below the controller can be configured to automatically limit the engine speed to a speed less than or equal to redline speed. A user interface can be provided in electrical communication with the controller and be configured to permit a user such as a driver for an operator of the vehicle to instruct the controller to select any one or any combination of the oxygen delivery system throttle the fuel delivery system and the ignition system to limit the engine speed. In some of these embodiments the engine speed is limited to a speed that is less than or equal to the redline speed. However other embodiments limit engine speed to other maximum speeds or to accomplish other results.

The three exemplary techniques for limiting engine speed as well as the control system that allows a user to determine or otherwise select the technique for limiting engine speed are disclosed in more detail below.

The oxygen delivery system can regulate the flow of ambient air including oxygen into the working chambers hereinafter cylinders . The speed of the engine can be directly proportional to the amount of oxygen present in each of the cylinders prior to the combustion process. In other words reducing the amount of oxygen at the cylinders generally reduces engine speed while increasing the amount of oxygen at the cylinders generally increases engine speed. As a result the engine speed can be limited to a speed less than or equal to a certain speed such as the redline speed by controlling the oxygen delivery system to reduce the amount of oxygen delivered to each of the cylinders .

Various components of the oxygen delivery system are shown in . The oxygen delivery system can include an intake manifold a throttle body and an intake valve assembly. The intake manifold can be in fluid communication with the ambient environment and can provide a fluid passage for ambient air to pass into the cylinders via respective intake ports formed in the engine .

The throttle body can include an actuator and a valve member which can be pivoted by the actuator to any position between 1 a fully closed position where the valve member closes fluid communication through the intake manifold and 2 a fully opened position where the valve member permits the flow of ambient air to pass through the intake manifold substantially unrestricted by the valve member .

The intake valve assembly not shown can be configured to selectively and independently open and close fluid communication between each intake port and the respective cylinder . The intake valve assembly can include at least one valve member per cylinder a biasing member for each valve member and at least one cam shaft that includes at least one cam.

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover various different forms of the above elements. For example the valve member can be configured as a poppet valve. The biasing member can be configured as a coil spring that can bias the poppet valve into a closed position such that the poppet valve closes fluid communication between the intake manifold and the respective cylinder port. Each cam can be configured to rotate with the camshaft and to engage directly or indirectly a respective poppet valve to move the poppet valve from the closed position to an open position such that the poppet valve can open fluid communication between the intake manifold and respective intake port e.g. the first intake port or the second intake port .

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of oxygen delivery system including known related art and or later developed technologies. For example embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any apparatus or method for controlling the amount of oxygen to the cylinders including but not limited to various different configurations of the valve member .

In some embodiments and as discussed in more detail below the control system controls the valve member to control the amount of oxygen provided to the cylinders . In one such embodiment when the controller receives data from the engine speed sensor indicative of a speed that is within a predetermined range of the redline speed or some other determined maximum speed the controller can signal the actuator to move the valve member toward the fully closed position by an amount that will reduce the oxygen supply to the cylinders so that the engine speed is reduced by an appropriate amount.

The fuel delivery system can regulate the flow of fuel into the cylinders . The speed of the engine can also be directly proportional to the amount of fuel present in each cylinder or prior to the combustion process. In other words reducing the amount of fuel at the cylinders generally reduces the engine speed while increasing the amount of fuel at the cylinders generally increases the engine speed. As a result the engine speed can be limited to a speed less than or equal to a certain speed such as the redline speed by controlling the fuel delivery system to reduce the amount of fuel delivered to each of the cylinders .

The fuel delivery system can include a fuel tank and fuel pump not shown as well as a fuel injector. In fact fuel delivery systems of both c i engines and s i engines can include at least one fuel injector. The fuel injector can include a flow control valve that can be selectively opened and closed to control the amount of fuel that exits the fuel injector for delivery to the cylinders .

The exemplary embodiment of illustrates two fuel injectors one for each of the cylinders arranged in a direct injection configuration where the fuel injectors can spray fuel directly into the respective one of the cylinders . In another exemplary embodiment each fuel injector can be positioned to spray fuel into a respective portion of the intake manifold that is in fluid communication with a respective one of the intake ports . In yet another exemplary embodiment a single fuel injector can be located downstream of the throttle body such as immediately adjacent thereto in order to deliver fuel to each of the cylinders .

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of fuel delivery system including known related art and or later developed technologies. For example embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any methods or apparatus for controlling the amount of fuel to the cylinders including various different configurations of the fuel injectors . In some such embodiments the fuel injectors can each include a fuel injector valve to regulate the flow of fuel to the cylinders .

In some embodiments and as discussed in more detail below the control system controls the fuel injectors to control the amount of fuel provided to the cylinders as well as the timing of the fuel delivered. In one such embodiment the fuel injectors are in electrical communication with the controller which can be configured to independently instruct each of the fuel injectors to meter a specific amount of fuel for delivery into the respective one of the cylinders . The controller can be configured to independently instruct each of the fuel injectors to deliver fuel into the respective one of the cylinders at a specific timing. The timing of the fuel delivery and amount of fuel delivered can be based on piston position such as the pistons being disposed at TDC. In particular the timing and duration of the opening of the fuel injector valve can vary relative to the pistons TDC.

In accordance with some embodiments when the controller receives data from the engine speed sensor indicative of a speed that is within a predetermined range of the redline speed or some other determined maximum speed the controller can signal the fuel injectors to meter an amount of fuel to the cylinders sufficient to reduce the engine speed by an appropriate amount.

In alternative embodiments the controller can be configured to signal the fuel injectors to retard the timing of the injection of fuel so that the fuel is sprayed into the cylinders at a predetermined time after the respective one of the pistons has reached TDC. During operation at higher engine speeds the duration of the combustion of fuel is reduced as compared to lower engine speeds because the piston travels from TDC to BDC at a higher speed. This retarded injection timing further reduces the time available for the combustion process. As a result less fuel can be burned during the power stroke of the piston resulting in a reduction of the engine speed.

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover various different forms of the above elements. For example the fuel supply system can include one or more carburetors in place of the fuel injectors.

In s i internal combustion engines combustion of the air and fuel mixture is initiated by providing electrical energy to each of the cylinders such as via an ignition system. The ignition system can be configured to regulate the electrical energy that is provided to each of the cylinders .

The ignition system can include an electrical power supply such as a battery not shown and at least one spark plug in communication with a respective one of the cylinders . The exemplary embodiment of illustrates two spark plugs one for each of the cylinders .

During operation at higher engine speeds the duration of the combustion of fuel is reduced as compared to lower engine speeds because the piston travels from TDC to BDC at a higher speed. If the timing of the firing of each of the spark plugs relative to the timing at which the piston is at TDC is not adjusted relative to lower engine speeds then less fuel can be burned during the power stroke of the piston because the duration of the power stroke is less at higher engine speeds as compared to lower engine speeds.

As a result the controller can be configured to control the spark plugs to address the above issues such as by advancing the timing of the firing of the spark plugs so that the air and fuel mixture is ignited before the piston reaches TDC. Conversely in order to reduce engine speed the controller can be configured to instruct the spark plugs to fire at a timing subsequent to the respective one of the pistons reaching TDC thus further reducing the time for combustion during the power stroke of the pistons .

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of apparatus for regulating timing of the ignition including known related art and or later developed technologies. For example embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any methods or apparatus for controlling the timing of the firing of the spark plugs to affect engine speed.

Certain embodiments enable a user to control or otherwise determine the procedure or manner in which engine speed is to be limited such as by enabling the user to determine that engine speed is to be limited by virtue of one or any combination of the engine limiting procedures disclosed above including but not limited to 1 controlling fuel injection amount 2 retarding ignition timing and 3 controlling throttle. In other words the user is empowered to select the procedure s or manner s in which the engine speed is to be limited such that the engine speed is then limited according to the selected or determined manner s or procedure s upon the occurrence of conditions warranting the limiting of engine speed. In some of these embodiments the user is provided with the ability to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited while the vehicle is being operated e.g. while the engine is running while the vehicle is being driven etc.

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any methods and apparatus for enabling the user to perform this operation. Some of the embodiments disclosed below utilize a user operated button switch touch screen display combination of mouse and display mobile device application etc. However embodiments are not restricted to any specific structure or apparatus to enable the user to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited.

In accordance with some embodiments the user operates the user interface to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited. In some of these embodiments the user interface communicates the user s selection to the controller which then limits engine speed accordingly upon the existence of conditions warranting the limitation of engine speed. For example the user interface can include an identification signal generator and transmitter that generates and transmits an identification signal that identifies the user s selection to the controller.

In accordance with some embodiments the user interface is constituted by a dedicated physical switch that enables the user to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited. However the user interface of other embodiments is not a dedicated switch and instead is constituted by a physical switch that provides other or additional functionalities.

In accordance with one physical switch configuration a separate position is provided for each of the separate procedures for limiting engine speed. Thus a separate switch position is provided for each of 1 fuel injection amount 2 ignition timing and 3 throttle. Thus engine speed is limited based on the selected switch position upon the occurrence of conditions warranting that the engine speed is limited. In accordance with this switch configuration the user interface only permits engine speed to be limited based on one selected procedure.

In accordance with a different physical switch configuration each of the three switch positions includes a separate actuator to activate or deactivate the corresponding procedure for limiting engine speed. In other words each of the separate switch positions 1 fuel injection amount 2 ignition timing and 3 throttle includes a separate actuator enabling selection of the corresponding procedure. Thus engine speed is limited based on separate actuation of each of the switch positions which enables the user to limit engine speed based on any combination of the procedures for limiting engine speed.

Alternatively the user interface can be in the form of a display such as at the vehicle dashboard i.e. instrument panel or other location. In accordance with some of these embodiments the user interface is constituted as a touchscreen display that enables the user to select any one or any combination of the procedures for limiting engine speed. In accordance with other of these embodiments instead of a touchscreen display the user interface is constituted by a display and other apparatus that enables the user to toggle through the displayed different procedures for limiting engine speed. For example the display can be provided on the dashboard and a mouse can be provided at a convenient location for the user to operate.

As yet another alternative the user interface can be constituted by a processor that is separate from the standard vehicle control system. For example the user interface can include at least in part a mobile device such as a smart phone tablet computer etc. In some of these embodiments an application on the mobile device can enable the user to select the procedure for limiting engine speed and then transmit the selected procedure to the controller .

This transmission of the selected procedure for limiting engine speed can be performed in accordance with any known related art or later developed technologies. For example the transmission can be performed wires wirelessly via a network etc.

In the embodiment of the user interface includes a switch and a display area located in an instrument cluster . This configuration of the user interface may be especially beneficial because it provides the user with easy and convenient access to selecting the manner in which engine speed is to be limited. The instrument cluster can include gauges meters indicating vehicle speed engine speed engine temperature fuel level etc.

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover various different forms of the above elements. For example the switch can be in the form of a button a rotary knob a slider a haptic sensor etc. and can be placed anywhere in the vehicle within reach of the driver such as but not limited to the gear selector the steering wheel the instrument panel and the center console.

In the embodiment shown in the user interface is provided adjacent the instrument cluster or along the center console. This configuration may be especially beneficial because more space is available in these areas to provide additional functionality including but not limited to enabling the user to select any combination of procedures for limiting engine speed instead of only being able to select a single procedure for limiting engine speed. This procedure may also be beneficial based on its proximity to the gauges meters that indicate engine speed. For example providing the user interface at this location may be more intuitive for many users thereby enabling the users to more easily locate the user interface .

The user interfaces are merely provided in for exemplary purposes. As indicated above embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any and all apparatus for enabling a user to select the manner in which engine speed is to be limited.

In accordance with the flowchart of the user manually selects the manner in which engine speed is to be limited using the user interface at step . At step the user interface transmits the selected manner for limiting engine speed to the controller . Upon receipt the controller stores or otherwise selects control protocols for limiting engine speed that correspond to the selected manner for limiting engine speed at step .

At step the engine speed sensor senses engine speed and transmits the sensed engine speed to the controller . The controller then determines whether the sensed engine speed exceeds the preset maximum engine speed at step . If not i.e. the sensed engine speed does not exceed a pre set maximum engine speed then the process reverts to step . If so then the process proceeds to step where the controller transmits the stored control protocols for limiting engine speed corresponding to the selected matter of limiting engine speed to the appropriate engine system components.

After the controller transmits the stored control protocols to the appropriate engine system components the procedure can either re start at the beginning or alternatively revert to a certain step such as step . However in accordance with some embodiments the procedure delays this re starting or reverting for a predetermined period to enable the appropriate engine speed procedures to take effect.

While certain embodiments of the invention are described above and disclose the best mode for practicing the various inventive aspects it should be understood that the invention can be embodied and configured in many different ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

For example embodiments are disclosed above in the context of an internal combustion engine. However embodiments are also applicable to other types of engines including but not limited to hybrid engines. In other words in some embodiments the internal combustion engine disclosed above can be combined with an electric motor to form a hybrid power source. In some of these embodiments the engine output axis of the engine or the hybrid power source is oriented in the longitudinal direction L or in the traverse direction T of the vehicle. The engine can be mounted forward of the front axles rearward of the rear axles or intermediate the front and rear axles. In the exemplary embodiment of the engine is configured as an traversely oriented front mounted engine however as indicated above embodiments are applicable to any other type or configuration of engine.

Enabling a user to select the manner in which speed is to be limited may be especially beneficial for vehicles having manual transmissions because of the higher likelihood of over revving. However embodiments are intended to be applicable to vehicles having any type of transmission. For example the transmission can be an automatic transmission a manual transmission or a semi automatic transmission. The transmission can include a speed ratio assembly which can be a stepped speed ratio assembly or a continuously variable speed ratio assembly. However as indicated above embodiments are intended to be applicable to vehicles having any other type or configuration of transmission.

The controller can control the operation of various of the components disclosed above such as the engine the transmission the actuator the fuel injectors and the spark plugs . In addition the controller can receive data from or otherwise communicate with various components such as the engine speed sensor and user interface . Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of apparatus for effecting this control reception of data or otherwise enabling communication. In some embodiments this apparatus includes electrical communication lines such as in the form of wires to facilitate electrical communication. However in other embodiments the electrical communication is performed wirelessly. Electrical communication can be either one way communication or two way communication and can be networked or not networked.

Exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed above.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages. Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

While the subject matter has been described in detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the invention. All related art references discussed in the above Description of the Related Art section are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

