---

title: Method for durably bonding functional layers to surfaces
abstract: A new method for durably bonding layers of a functional material to surfaces physically and chemically bonds solid layer lubricants and other functional coatings to a substrate surface by first applying a bond layer of a selected substantially binder-free soft material onto the substrate surface by, for example, burnishing, and then applying the functional layer onto the bond layer. Example soft materials for the bond layer include soft oxides such as antimony trioxide and example solid layer lubricants include graphite, molybdenum disulfide and mixtures of such lubricants. The new method is a major improvement over conventional bonding or coating methods. The process is non-vacuum at ambient temperatures and requires no binders, adhesives, curing or baking. Lubricant performance is enhanced by orders of magnitude compared to conventional approaches. The method is inexpensive, environmentally friendly, applicable to almost any substrate material and scalable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09475089&OS=09475089&RS=09475089
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09475089
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140127
---
This application is a continuation application from application Ser. No. 12 741 282 filed May 4 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 637 162 issued Jan. 28 2014 which was a 35 U.S.C. 371 National Stage Application from International Application No. PCT US2009 038931 filed Mar. 31 2009 which in turn claimed the benefit of the filing date of Provisional Application No. 61 123 566 filed Apr. 1 2008. This application claims the benefit of the filing dates of all three prior applications and incorporates their contents by reference into this application.

The invention described herein can be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty.

This invention relates generally to methods for durably binding a functional layer to a substrate surface and more specifically to methods for durably binding a solid film lubrication layer to a substrate surface.

Friction is the resistance of one solid sliding over another solid. Often the higher the friction the greater the wear. The best way to reduce friction and wear is by separating the surfaces. This can be accomplished by use of a liquid lubricant such as oil. The ideal condition is known as hydrodynamic lubrication and can eliminate wear by fully separating materials by a fluid film. Unfortunately ideal conditions of hydrodynamic lubrication are rarely maintained in practice. Starting stopping misalignment heavy loads and other conditions can cause a fluid film to be squeezed out or allow surface asperities to break through the lubricant film so that the two solids are pressed into contact with one another ending that ideal hydrodynamic lubrication and beginning elastohydrodynamic or boundary lubrication. If no liquid is present the surface is either self lubricated no lubrication or a solid lubricant can be used. Solid film lubrication is a critical enabling technology employed in the absence of liquid lubricants. The choice to forgo a liquid lubricant or grease can be from either design constraints or too severe operating conditions for liquid and grease survival. Extreme operating conditions are typically defined by severe environments such as from water chemicals temperatures and pressures. Extreme operating conditions require a distinct and separate class of lubricants. The harsh environment of outer space and internal combustion engines for example is marked by such extreme conditions and has spurred development of a special class of non organic based lubricants. Solid film lubricants have been very successful in fulfilling the role of providing wear protection in such conditions. Relative to liquid lubricants solid lubricants generally have lower vapor pressures better boundary lubrication properties and relative insensitivity to radiation effects and operate in wider temperature ranges.

For moving mechanical components these properties are essential to reduce metal on metal contact and thereby reduce friction heat and wear. Much work has been done identifying materials which have these properties. Generally but not exclusively there are 3 distinct classes of soft solid film lubricants meeting these criteria 

Graphite is the stable form of carbon. The bulk lubricating properties of graphite were been known as early as 1906 and the dichalcogenides as early as 1939. Graphite is used extensively in the electrical industry for its good lubrication properties as well as its good electrical conductivity. Graphite is a durable heavy duty lubricant that can endure extreme temperature fluctuations ranging from 100 C. to 350 C. Graphite has a sheet like structure where the atoms all lie in a plane and are only weakly bonded to the graphite sheets above and below. The C C bond is strong in 2 dimensions but weak in the third with a hexagonal crystal orientation. Much like a deck of playing cards the sheets slide easily. Graphite provides the best wear protection in the presence of moisture.

The dichalcogenides of molybdenum and tungsten meet the successful solid film lubricant criteria very well and have been used extensively and successfully on most space missions and other environments of vacuum and temperature extremes since the late 1960 s. MoSis a naturally occurring mineral formed and mined with other ores in various parts of the world. It is highly refined and processed into 0.5 micron average particle sizes suitable for use as a solid lubricant. It possesses the propertie of being able to withstand extremely high load capacities up to 600 ksi. It is chemically stable has a very low coefficient of friction in powder form 0.05 to 0.09 and has thermo stability from cryogenic temperatures to 350 C. MoSis an ideal solid film lubricant material for extreme environments.

On an atomic level the dichalcogenide lubricants have a hexagonal crystal structure with strong cation bonded layers creating a basal plane sandwiched between two weekly bonded anions Van der Waals forces . The net effect is similar to a deck of cards sliding parallel to the long axis the sliding axis producing very low friction between mating surfaces. As a rule of thumb MoSis the preferred lubricant for vacuum cryogenics and graphite the preferred lubricant for use in air graphite relying on moisture to induce the proper shear.

Two major milestones in thin solid film lubricant technology are when T. Spalvins in 1967 at NASA Lewis first reported on the properties of sputter vacuum deposited MoSfilms and when B. C. Stupp in 1968 began to commercially provide physical vapor deposition PVD applied MoScoatings in Dayton Ohio. PVD processing resulted in the then highest adhesion solid film lubricant coatings.

In addition to the dichalcogenide and graphite lamellar type films soft metals such as Au Ag In Cr Pb can provide wear protection under extreme conditions and meet the requirements of successful solid film lubrication. Soft metallic lubricants have crystal structures with multiple slip planes and do not work harden appreciably during sliding contacts. Dislocations and point defects generated during shear deformation are rapidly nullified by the frictional heat produced during sliding contact. Reported friction coefficients of soft metals range from 0.1 to 0.4 depending on the metal and test conditions. Ion plated lead films are extensively used in Europe. In solar array drives alone more than 2 million operational hours in orbit have been accumulated. An important property of the lead film is its high load carrying ability. Under Hertzian contact the as deposited film flows plastically until a thin film 10 nm thickness or less remains and then elastically deforms the substrate. In this condition the film can survive contact loads approaching the static load capacity of a rolling element bearing. Lead coatings have had good success as a solid lubricant in vacuum applications and additionally are used extensively as a solid film lubricant for the high speed bearing in imaging X ray tubes under vacuum. Optimum performance of lead and other metals is achieved at an approximately 1 um thickness. Silver and indium have been investigated but actual usage in space is not reported. Solid lubricant films are used in a variety of mechanisms on various spacecraft and launch vehicles. Deposition of soft metals Pb Au Ag In by ion plating provides excellent adhesion. These films have been particularly effective in spacecraft bearings found in solar array drive mechanisms in European satellites on the Hubble space telescope and the BAXS gear for the International Space Station solar collector gear drive. Gold and silver are used in situations requiring electrical conductivity. Sputter deposited MoShas a lower coefficient of friction than ion plated Pb 0.01 versus 0.1 which means that MoScomponents should develop less torque.

There are other lubricant materials that have been reported but they only find application in limited conditions. For example CaF BaFand cesium oxythiomolybdates tungstates have been used for high temperature lubrication. They become soft and their shear strength decreases as the temperature increases.

Today there are many industrialized methods of solid film lubricant deposition for extreme environments. The general categories in order of increasing cost complexity and adhesion are as follows 

Solid film lubricants or other functional materials are mixed and placed on a carrier material such as a cloth blasting media inert media or specially designed fixtures. The parts to be coated are then brought in contact with the various media resulting in a film of the solid lubricant on the surface of the part. The lubricant material marginally adheres to the surface of the part with a mechanical bond at best.

Solid film lubricants or other functional materials are mixed with organic solvents as well as binders and parts are coated by paint spray guns dipping or spin coating. Parts must be grit blasted prior to coating. Blasting results in surface finish degradation as well as fatigue from stress risers. Once the parts have been coated an oven bake out procedure is required to evaporate the solvents as well as cure the binders. These methods require the use of VOCs and are not environmentally friendly. The bond between the solid film lubricant and the part to be coated is limited by the mechanism of the binder and how well it can glue the solid film lubricant to the surface. This bonding is not very strong and the resultant coating can become thick and affect part tolerances. The binders tend to introduce impurities and increase the coefficient of friction of solid film lubricants versus their pure form.

Solid film lubricants or other functional materials are Physical Vapor Deposited PVD using sputter or ion plating deposition. Parts are placed in a chamber which is evacuated of atmospheric gases by pumps. The functional material cathode is bombarded by ions to dislodge the coating on an atomic scale on to the surface of the parts to be coated. This coating tends to have strong bonding to the part due to the purity of the process but requires expensive equipment and complex process control. Limitations exist on the size and shape of the parts to be coated based on the chamber size as well as ability to effectively manipulate the part for this line of sight process.

As just described solid film lubricants are critical for providing low friction surfaces especially in extreme environments. There are many patents for applying solid film lubricants in special applications found across the majority of industry. Examples include automotive internal combustion engines aerospace gas turbine engines molding glass manufacturing welding swaging bearings cabling and conveyor systems cutting and forming tools and many others. The primary methods of solid film lubricant deposition include spraying dipping rubbing tumbling or brushing. With these primary deposition methods the solid film lubricant must be added to another medium such as epoxy resin or wax or grease to achieve some level of adhesion to the part being coated and require a post oven bake. The addition of binders results in films which are thick and often brittle. An alternative method is to add solid film lubricants to metallic particles and then to use thermal spray methods to deposit low friction coatings. This method results in only a mechanical bond and often post coating grinding and or polishing is required. Some technologies apply solid film lubricants to the surface of parts by mechanical impingement using sand blasting equipment or tumbling polishing equipment. Such bonding however is very weak and surfaces must be roughened prior to coating to create divots to hold the solid film lubricant. Methods based on PVD do achieve atomistic adhesion and a thin film structure with excellent tribological characteristics. These PVD sputtering processes however requires expensive vacuum equipment and sophisticated process controls. Solid film lubricants deposited by PVD have the best prior art performance capabilities as well as the smallest market share.

Thus there is a need and a market for an improved method to durably attach a functional layer to an object having one or more surfaces that overcomes the shortcomings of the prior art.

This invention solves the durable bonding problems of the prior art for bonding a functional layer to the surface of a substrate or three dimensional object by a convenient and low cost method.

Broadly the present invention provides a method for durably bonding a layer to a substrate comprising applying a substantially binder free bond layer selected from the group consisting of a soft oxide a soft metal a sulfide and a chalcogenide to the substrate and applying a functional layer onto the bond layer.

A preferred embodiment comprises applying a bond layer of antinomy trioxide onto a metal substrate surface and then applying a lubrication layer including molybdenum disulfide.

A preferred embodiment for applying the bond layer and functional layer to an object comprises adding a substantially binder free bond layer into a mixing vessel adding burnishing media into the mixing vessel rotating the mixing vessel to burnish the and coat the object with the bonding material and then adding a functional layer onto the bonding layer.

A preferred embodiment for applying the bond layer using burnishing comprises using antimony trioxide for the bond layer and a lubrication layer including molybdenum disulfide.

Referring now to the drawings examples of applying a bond coat to the surface of a substrate are shown in . On a substrate a precursor bondable powder is applied to surface of substrate . Bondable powder is in the form of SbOpowder which after application to surface is burnished onto the surface by a burnishing tool to form a bond coat .

Engineering materials means shaped wood metal plastic elastomer including rubber ceramic coating or composites of one or more such materials.

Functional layer means a material layer that provides new or additional functions to a laminate or substrate layer.

Bonding materials or functional materials including lubricants suitable for burnishing means a powder as described following that will at least in part transfer during contact to a substrate surface being burnished.

Burnishing means to rub a material onto another by for example a ball mill where a material rubs another with a burnishing agent to be burnished between them as in a ball colliding with a plate with powder between them rubbing or polishing including by hand or by use of a buffing wheel to burnish an object or surface or by kinetic means in which the particle or powder velocity itself causes the particle to rub against and coat another material or surface.

Burnishing media means macro size components used to perform burnishing steps such as metal balls including ball bearings marbles or plastic balls of suitable size for the application for example having a diameter of 1 32 to or more and even irregular sized components such as walnut shells that can perform the described burnishing steps which can be performed for example in a rotating drum at a suitable speed or one that vibrates or a combination of those media.

Powder means a well divided solid having a particle size of 1 nm to 500 m or more depending on the application. A burnishing agent can be a powder or compacted powder that is rubbed onto a surface to coat same as indicated in .

Bond layer means a material that is itself adherent to a substrate surface and enhances adhesion of subsequent layers such that a functional layer is tenaciously bonded to a substrate through the bond layer.

Burnishing aside a functional layer can be deposited on the bond layer of for example SbO by other methods such as by magnetron sputtering thermal spray or other suitable deposition methods though burnishing is a preferred low cost and convenient method.

The bond layer can be deposited by methods or a combination of methods such as PVD magnetron sputtering CVD thermal spray or other suitable deposition methods including electro or electroless plating sol gel e coat powder painting conventional spray dip or brush although burnishing is a preferred low cost and convenient method.

The functional layer can similarly be deposited on the bonding layer by other methods or combination of methods such as PVD magnetron sputtering CVD thermal spray or other suitable deposition methods including electro or electro less plating sol gel e coat powder painting conventional spray dip or brush although again burnishing is a preferred low cost and convenient method.

Alternatively within the scope of the teachings of the invention a bond coat can be applied to a substrate by a non burnishing method such as sputtering as shown in . That is an electrode of SbOis spaced from a substrate in an atmosphere of Argon the ions 24 of which are attracted to the SbOelectrode which frees SbOions which are in turn attracted to the surface of substrate causing SbOto coat surface with a bond coat .

In a further example embodiment according to the teachings of the invention as shown in substrate has on its surface a bond coat of SbO formed by either of the methods described above with respect to .

Then as shown in a functional layer such as a solid layer of lubricant is deposited on bond coat which holds lubricant layer in a strong durable bond a bond which would not be durable without bond coat provided by the method of the present invention which provides the novel products of the present invention the durably bonded laminate of and the durably bonded laminate of .

Three dimensional objects or articles can be coated in a production system by machinery such as shown in . That is ball mill having rotatable drum receives SbObonding material milling beads and gears the objects to be coated.

The drum is rotated which causes bonding material to contact gears and beads to come into repetitive contact with bonding material and gears so as to coat burnish and build up a coating of SbOon gears in a manner similar to bond coat .

Thereafter the now bond coated gears are transferred to the second coating stage ball mill having a rotatable drum . Here the coated gears are placed in drum along with functional material such as a lubricant and beads . Drum is rotated as indicated in and in the manner described above regarding drum lubricant material is coated and burnished upon coated gears to build up the lubricant as a second coating in a manner similar to the buildup of functional layer on substrate in .

Thus numerous three dimensional objects or articles can be coated with the above layers or coatings by ball mills a vibratory or other machine in a mass production system according to the teachings of the invention.

Thus the invention provides a substrate with a bond coat as an intermediate layer as a first laminate which layer can receive and hold fast an added layer mounted on such bond coat as a second laminate . The added layer can be a functional layer such as a solid lubricant layer or other functional layer as described in this Detailed Description.

The inventive method can be a non vacuum ambient temperature deposition process that does not involve binders adhesives curing or baking. However applying a soft bond coat material by any method including vacuum methods provides benefits. A significant advantage of the bond coat is that it allows the lubricant to be deposited by burnishing and still provide low friction and long life wear protection. The chemical physical bonding insures that the coating does not chip crack or peel. Industrial friction and wear testing of this molecular bonding of solid film lubricants has demonstrated the superlative nature of this process.

The thickness of the bond layer or the functional layer is related to the particle size employed in the respective layers. Thus the particle size influences the layer thickness and so the range of each can be from 1 nm to 500 m depending upon the application of the functional coating. That is the bond coating and the functional coating can be smaller or less thick where the functional coating is a lubricant and of greater thickness where the functional coating is a catalyst. Within the above range a preferred range of the respective layers as noted earlier is 0.5 to 3.0 m thick which includes about 1 m which will not affect part tolerances.

The solid film lubricant is then deposited on top of the soft oxide bond layer film. The solid film lubricant can be MoSor WS the dichalcogenides in general ZnO and oxides in general boron nitride CaF graphite and mixtures of these solid lubricants as well as performance enhancing additives PTFE or any other friction reducing material.

Thus a significant advance in the performance of solid film lubricants has been made by the discovery of coating deposition processes for selected materials that results in higher adhesion and higher performance lower friction and reduced wear than PVD deposited coatings previously considered the gold standard. It is this advancement that is the subject of this invention a novel surface treatment method by which functional coatings such as adaptive and conventional solid film lubricants can be bonded to engineered materials with superior adhesion.

The method of the invention thus creates a bond coat for applying solid film lubricants or other functional coatings to the surface of engineered materials. The process is useful with selected materials that create good lubricant bonding and allows the lubricant to spread and be trapped in reservoirs and otherwise act synergistically with the bond coat to lower friction and wear. For example antimony trioxide can be burnished onto an engineering material component. MoS graphite SbOand other lubricant mixtures for example can then be burnished on top of the inventive bond layer forming an adherent long life and low friction surface. Without the surface treatment that is without the bond layer of the invention the system fails quickly. Using the same lubricant and applying by PVD the lifetime improves but considerable cost and loss of flexibility is incurred. Deposition of the soft bond layer material can be accomplished by a variety of methods both chemical and physical in nature. The material can be deposited by rubbing a rotating part or rotating applicator by brushes wheels or polishing tables. A vibratory tumbler or rocking shaker can be used as well as spraying thermal spraying or dipping techniques. Burnishing SbOonto a surface is one preferred embodiment that is convenient low cost and provides durable benefit.

As previously noted solid film lubricants have shown great success in providing lubrication and wear protection in a broad range of industries as well as applications specifically in harsh environments where conventional liquid or grease based lubricants cannot be used. The limiting factor of solid film lubricants has often been poor adhesion. Historically to achieve adhesion parts had to be roughened by blasting or binders and solvents had to be used with oven bake procedures all resulting in marginal adhesion of the solid film lubricant to the substrate. An alternate method has been to use vacuum plasma based technologies with high expense process complexity and limitation on part size. The teachings of this invention provides durable adhesion of solid film lubricants and a synergistic effect is achieved creating a low friction low wear and a long lived lube surface. A significant advantage of the burnished SbOembodiment is that it is convenient an environmentally friendly process scalable and permits the lubricant to be burnished inexpensive environmentally friendly and scalable onto the surface. A burnished lubricant that is as effective or more so than PVD or CVD lubricant coatings at a significant cost savings.

As indicated a novel surface deposition method for selected materials is provided which enables lubricants and other functional materials to be applied to engineered surfaces with surpassing adhesion and enhanced lubricant properties. A focus of this invention has been on solving tribological problems by the use of solid film lubricants. Another industry that can benefit from this bonding process of materials in powder form is electroluminescent materials for sensors detectors scintillators and displays.

Thus a low cost method is provided that in one example embodiment prepares a surface to tightly bond a coating such as a lubricant layer that lowers friction and protects such surface from wear. In addition the bond coat process and materials act synergistically with the lubricant to provide markedly improved properties. Essentially a bond layer is created that chemically and physically bonds lubricants to a substrate e.g. MoS WS the dichalcogenides in general ZnO and oxides in general boron nitride cesium oxythiomolybdate CaF graphite and mixtures of these solid lubricants that results in improved adhesion lubricant availability lower friction and extended lifetime thereof. Materials adhere better and the lubrication mechanism is enhanced as the lubricant spreads and remains on the coated surfaces. The process and bond coat work on various substrates including metals ceramics plastics composites and engineered materials in general.

Lubricants that adhered poorly to these substrates before application of the inventive process coating adhere tenaciously afterwards. The process extends the life of coatings and lowers friction by several orders of magnitude compared to depositing coatings without the bond layer. One embodiment of the invention permits bonding by a method of burnishing a special oxide such as antimony trioxide. The bonding has superior characteristics to even plasma vacuum technologies which is a complex and expensive process. The invention permits the lubricant coat to be applied by burnishing and yet provide the superior performance of PVD coatings. The burnishing process is significantly less expensive than vacuum based processes. The process in this invention can be described as a non vacuum ambient temperature deposition process that does not involve binders adhesives curing or baking no hazardous solvents or hazardous air pollutants. However temperatures above and below the ambient can be employed in the coating steps as desired within the scope of the invention.

As previously noted the invention provides a coating that does not chip crack or peel. The final functional coating is preferably about 1 m thick with a range of 0.5 3.0 m which will not affect part tolerances. Industrial grade friction and wear testing of solid film lubricants has demonstrated the superlative nature of this process. Solid film lubricants have shown great success in providing lubrication and wear protection in a broad range of applications and would benefit many industries. Benefits are specifically notable in harsh environments where conventional liquid or grease based lubricants cannot be used. It is also noted that the process is inexpensive environmentally friendly and noncomplex compared to other methods used to achieve improvements in solid lubricant performance. A limiting factor of solid film lubricants has been poor adhesion and limited lifetime. Historically to achieve adhesion parts had to be roughened by blasting or binders and solvents had to be used with oven bake procedures all resulting in marginal adhesion of the solid film lubricant to the substrate. An alternate method has been to use vacuum plasma based technologies with high expense process complexity and limitation on the size of parts. The subject of this invention provides strong adhesion of solid film lubricants in a synergistic manner creating a low friction low wear and long life surface. The process is completely scalable to large and complex parts.

An entire industry exists for solid film lubricants. They are deposited by conventional paint methods i.e. in a binder or by complex vacuum methods. Nothing in the current art or science has the adhesion cohesion and performance characteristics as does the subject of this invention. A number of bond coats are used but none are burnished which is a preferred key step none are soft oxides or other burnishable soft compounds in particular none are a binder free antimony trioxide. Bond coats described outside this invention include metals and phosphate treatments but again not burnished oxides and soft materials.

The method of this invention applies to enhancing moving mechanical components in standard or harsh environments such as gas turbine engines rocket engines space based mechanisms munitions anywhere a low friction and low wear surface is required. Gears splines bearings deployable structures particularly in space bushings guides slides shafts rings pins pistons camshafts hinges seals are all components where this invention can find use.

In sum reducing friction and wear has a tremendous payoff for any application involving moving mechanical components needs lubrication. Extending the realm of solid film lubricant applications by providing a process that joins solid lubricants to functional surfaces has windfall effects throughout all of industry. One third of all usable device produced energy is lost to friction and wear and reactive maintenance costs three times that of planned maintenance costing industry and consumers billions each year.

Finally while durably mounted lubricant layers are an important embodiment of this invention other functional layers are provided within the teachings of the invention such as hard particle durable material anti corrosion compound catalyst photosensitive material adsorbent photovoltaic material and sensor compounds.

