---

title: Reusable energy absorbing lab seat
abstract: The reusable energy absorbing lab seat  includes a seat bucket for holding an anthropomorphic test device, a seat support structure, an energy absorbing system, a false floor structure, and a fail-safe system. The seat support structure is for securing the seat bucket to a sled that corresponds to a horizontal accelerator. The energy absorbing system is for absorbing energy imposed by the horizontal accelerator on the seat bucket and the anthropomorphic test device. The false floor structure is for simulating a real floor of a vehicle or aircraft. The fail-safe system is for reducing damage to the reusable energy absorbing seat, the anthropomorphic test device, and lab facilities in case the energy absorbing system fails.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146173&OS=09146173&RS=09146173
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09146173
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140212
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Currently when testing personnel mounted equipment a horizontal accelerator is used. A horizontal accelerator may be defined but without limitation as an apparatus that can make an object move along a track at various speeds and can be used to create acceleration forces and pulse shapes typically seen in crashes and other types of accelerated environments. Typically during testing a rigid seat is used on the accelerator. Rigid seats are not representative of the type of seats utilized in aircraft or real world vehicles. Crashworthy energy absorbing seats are used in modern military rotorcraft and other vehicles to help protect personnel on the aircraft from the potentially lethal forces experienced during a crash. The crashworthy seating systems that are used in aircraft can cost in excess of 80 000 per seat. Therefore utilizing these seats to qualify and test personnel mounted equipment tend to be cost prohibitive. Utilizing a rigid seat in testing and or in laboratory environments results in inaccurate data when testing is conducted in vertically oriented crash tests. As a result a reusable energy absorbing test seat that accurately simulates crashworthy seats used in aircraft is needed.

The present invention is directed to a reusable energy absorbing lab seat REAL seat that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a reusable energy absorbing lab seat that includes a seat bucket for holding an anthropomorphic test device a seat support structure for securing the seat bucket to a sled the sled corresponding to a horizontal accelerator such that energy may be imposed by the horizontal accelerator on the seat bucket and the anthropomorphic test device an energy absorbing system for absorbing energy imposed by the horizontal accelerator on the seat bucket and the anthropomorphic test device a false floor structure for simulating a real floor of a vehicle the false floor structure being able to be adjusted based on the size of the anthropomorphic test device and a fail safe system for reducing damage to the reusable energy absorbing seat the anthropomorphic test device and lab facilities in case the energy absorbing system fails.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a reusable energy absorbing lab seat that accurately represents an energy absorbing seat typically used in military aircraft.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a reusable energy absorbing lab seat that can be utilized on a horizontal accelerator.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a reusable energy absorbing lab seat that can be used to accommodate the 5percentile female through the 95percentile male anthropomorphic test device.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a reusable energy absorbing lab seat that can be used to simulate a crash to determine human injuries caused as result of a crash and to help maximize survivability of person in such a crash.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in the reusable energy absorbing lab seat includes a seat bucket a seat support structure an energy absorbing system a false floor structure and a fail safe system . The seat bucket is for holding an anthropomorphic test device . An anthropomorphic test device may be defined as but without limitation a crash test dummy or any type of test device that is representative of the human body. The seat support structure is for securing the seat bucket to a sled . The sled corresponds to a horizontal accelerator such that energy may be imposed by the horizontal accelerator on the seat bucket and the anthropomorphic test device . The energy absorbing system is for absorbing energy imposed by the horizontal accelerator on the seat bucket and the anthropomorphic test device . The false floor structure is for simulating a real floor of a vehicle or aircraft. The false floor structure is able to be adjusted based on the size of the anthropomorphic test device . The fail safe system is for reducing damage to the reusable energy absorbing seat the anthropomorphic test device and lab facilities in case the energy absorbing system fails.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military aircraft environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a reusable energy absorbing lab seat .

As shown in and the seat bucket includes a seat pan a seat back a restraint system a mock inertia reel and seat cushions . The seat pan and seat back are positioned at an appropriate angle to simulate a seat utilized in an aircraft or vehicle. As shown in the seat pan and the seat back have corresponding seat cushions . The restraint system may include over the shoulder restraints a lap strap and a crotch strap . As shown in and the mock inertia reel is placed on the back of the seat back and is used to simulate the use of an actual inertia reel found on crashworthy seating systems. Inertia reels are typically used on crashworthy seating systems to allow users to adjust their body positions in flight. They allow the shoulder straps of the restraint system to pay in and out during normal operations. For safety reasons they are designed to lock upon impact to prevent the occupant s torso from flailing around the aircraft. The mock inertia reel as shown in and simulates the inertia reel when locked thereby simulating a crashworthy seating system experiencing a crash. As shown in the mock inertia reel may include a mock inertia reel shaft with mock inertia blocks disposed on opposite ends of the mock inertia reel shaft . The mock inertia reel shaft may be cut in half at its centerline to make two halves A and B which lock the shoulder straps and lap strap such that it simulates a restraint system in its locked configuration. In one of the embodiments of the invention the mock inertia reel specifically the mock inertia reel blocks are mounted to the seat bucket via fasteners and are attached to the restraint system with the shoulder straps juxtapositioned between the two halves of the mock inertia reel shaft .

The seat support structure secures the seat bucket to the sled . There may be several configurations of the seat structure . The seat bucket may be disposed in a vertical orientation as shown in such that the anthropomorphic test device is on its back whereby the seat support structure is only a flat support structure. As shown in the seat support structure may be a support structure whereby the seat pan is positioned at angle at a non vertical and non horizontal orientation to the horizontal plane. Adjusting the angle allows crash simulations with different attitudes such that various different real world scenarios may be simulated. The seat support structure may include a seat interface plate for resting the seat bucket and the energy absorbing system . The seat support structure may also include seat support structure beams to angle and support the seat support structure . The seat support structure beams may be disposed at one end of the seat interface plate such that the seat support structure beams angle the seat interface plate . As further shown in there also may be false floor beams in order to support the false floor structure and to have the false floor structure angled to the vertical plane not parallel or perpendicular as shown in and appropriately correspond to the seat bucket .

The seat support structure secures the seat bucket and energy absorbing system to the sled that corresponds to a horizontal accelerator . The horizontal accelerator may include a sled track which includes two substantially parallel rails and a hydraulically controlled linear actuator to move and or accelerate the objects particularly the sled along the track. The preferred horizontal accelerator operates at a 50 G maximum acceleration with a 5 000 pound maximum payload at 20 G s.

As seen in the seat bucket translates on two guide rails and four linear bearings . The guide rails are attached to the support structure particularly to the seat interface plate . The linear bearings are used to secure the seat bucket to the guide rails and the support structure and allow the seat bucket to translate during the energy absorption process.

The energy absorbing system utilizes a pneumatic brake system. As shown in the energy absorbing system includes a brake caliper and a corresponding brake rail . As shown in the brake caliper may include a diaphragm a diaphragm housing a piston system two levers and two brake pads . The diaphragm housing includes an air tank inlet that allows fluid communication with an air tank not shown and the diaphragm . The diaphragm is disposed within the diaphragm housing and when the diaphragm becomes pressurized the diaphragm pushes on the piston system which extends out of the diaphragm housing such that the levers are pushed outward. Each lever communicates with a corresponding brake pad such that when the levers are pushed outward or actuated the brake pads are pushed inward and press on the brake rail . When air pressure is applied to the diaphragm the brake pads press on the brake rail creating friction when moved through the brake pads . This friction causes energy to be converted in the form of heat. If enough pressure is applied the real energy absorbing lab seat may be stopped reducing the injury potential of the simulated crash.

The false floor structure may be a metal platform or any type of structure or material that simulates the floor of a vehicle or aircraft. The false floor structure is supported by diagonal supports .

In one of the preferred embodiments of the invention the fail safe system is used to absorb the energy of a runaway seat. In the event that the energy absorbing system fails the fail safe system absorbs the energy of the seat reducing the risk of failure and damage to the seat bucket the anthropomorphic test device and the horizontal accelerator . The fail safe system is composed of an aluminum honey comb structure that crushes when the seat pan strokes past a predetermined distance on the seating system.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

