---

title: Systems and methods for encrypted mobile voice communications
abstract: A system for establishing a registration for secure communication between a mobile device and a server includes a server configured to: determine the phone number of the mobile device from which the SMS or MMS message is originated; and verify the phone number of the mobile device originating the SMS or MMS message against a whitelist to authorize a registration between the mobile device and the server. The server can establish an encryption key between the mobile device and the server, which can used to provide or enhance encryption of a voice communication, such as a VoIP communication, made using the mobile device. The server can renew the encryption key based on one or more policies determined by an administrator. The server can be configured to verify a secure identification code that is input at the mobile device and which can be provided to a user of the mobile device before the mobile device is registered with the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572033&OS=09572033&RS=09572033
owner: CELLTRUST CORPORATION
number: 09572033
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141014
---
This patent application is a Continuation patent application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 775 008 filed on Feb. 22 2013 and entitled Systems And Methods For Encrypted Mobile Voice Communications which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference and which is a Continuation patent application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 531 177 filed on Jun. 22 2012 and entitled Methods To Authenticate Access And Alarm As To Proximity To Location which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 602 072 filed Feb. 22 2012 and entitled Systems And Methods For Encrypted Mobile Voice Communications which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

This invention relates to systems and methods for managing mobile voice communications and information including personal information. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods for transmitting receiving encrypting storing and the like of encrypted mobile voice communications and of personal information. Specific embodiments and methods of the invention relate to wireless communication cellular telephony Internet based systems and methods software computers or a combination thereof for sending receiving and storing short messaging service SMS messages and multimedia messaging service MMS messages and mobile voice communications in an encrypted and secure manner.

Mobile voice communications are vulnerable to security breaches of the voice communications unauthorized access to the voice communications and other problems. Incorporation of mobile devices often using disparate mobile phone networks and operating systems into the information technology IT infrastructure of a business or enterprise has proven to be problematic with regard to both integration and security. For example mobile devices can carry important information and data and communication on the mobile device can create a security leak of the information and data on the mobile device. Voice communication on a mobile device can be eavesdropped by a third party to the mobile device and the mobile phone network e.g. hackers of the mobile phone network employees consultants or vendors of the operators of the mobile phone network or anyone else or anything else having access to the communication between the mobile device and the mobile phone network such as tower operators infrastructure providers and backhaulers . As a result there is a need for end to end mobile voice communications that are also encrypted. Additionally the enforcement of regulated and or proprietary informational policy on the mobile voice communications that are relayed on mobile phone networks has proven difficult. This is so because these types of communications between members of an organization and or one or more members of an organization and their clients are external to an IT controlled environment where an IT controlled environment is more secure . Standard mobile voice communications are not adequately or end to end encrypted and are thus vulnerable to interception and other unauthorized access. Also standard mobile voice communications have weak encryption the encryption is compromised or the encryption does not prevent service providers such as mobile phone network operators and or their vendors from eavesdropping on the mobile voice communication. Vulnerabilities associated with the security of communicating proprietary and regulated information between members of organizations and or enterprises using their mobile devices can lead to loss of revenue and or fines associated with regulatory non compliance.

In addition mobile voice over IP communications that are encrypted are vulnerable when using SSL Secure Sockets Layer or TLS Transport Layer Security due to different problems. These problems include one or more man in the middle MITM attacks exploitation of root certificate authority the need for reliance upon a pre shared key for encryption and or forged certificate concerns related to getting a hold of the root certificate. A MITM attack in cryptography and computer security uses eavesdropping. A MITM attacker contacts users and communicates messages between the users making the users believe that they are directly communicating with each other over a private connection. However their communication or conversation is controlled by the MITM attacker. The need for reliance upon a pre shared key pre defined and pre shared for encryption introduces challenges or failures for renewing of the pre shared key. Furthermore the encryption employed by various iterations of SSL is not secure enough e.g. the bit encryption may be low for adequate encryption .

Moreover as the number of subscribers of mobile devices and mobile services has grown usage e.g. transmission and reception of mobile voice communications has greatly increased and throughput demand and bandwidth demand on the mobile phone network have increased at a higher rate than capacity. As the result optimal throughput or bandwidth on the mobile phone network may not always be available for mobile voice communications.

This invention provides among other things a number of methods and embodiments to address the issues of security vulnerabilities integrating the mobile devices that are not a part of the IT infrastructure into the IT infrastructure of a business or enterprise throughput optimization on the mobile phone network and the management of mobile devices IT integration and policy administration.

Potential for improvement exists in these and other areas that may be apparent to a person of skill in the art having studied this document.

The contents of this summary section are provided only as a simplified introduction to the disclosure and are not intended to be used to limit the scope of the appended claims.

In accordance with the purposes of the invention as embodied and broadly described in this document there is provided a system for establishing a registration for secure communication between a mobile device and a server. The system includes a server configured to receive a short messaging service SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS message originated from a mobile device determine the phone number of the mobile device from which the SMS or MMS message is originated and verify the phone number of the mobile device originating the SMS or MMS message against a whitelist to authorize a registration between the mobile device and the server. The server can be configured to establish an encryption key between the mobile device and the server which key can be used to provide or enhance encryption of a voice communication made using the mobile device. The voice communication can be a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communication. The server can be configured to renew the encryption key based on one or more policies determined by an administrator of the server take one or more affirmative steps to facilitate routing of one or more messages between the mobile device and the server and or verify a secure identification code that is input at the mobile device. The secure identification code can be provided to a user of the mobile device before the mobile device is registered with the server such as via an administrator of the server.

According to another aspect of the invention the server can be configured to measure network conditions of a mobile phone network used by the mobile device and based on the measured network conditions select a suitable codec for handling at least one of secure calls conferencing video audio multimedia and streaming on the mobile phone network.

Also according to the invention there is provided a system for establishing a registration between a server and a VoIP application on a mobile device having an associated phone number. The system includes a mobile device is configured to use a server encryption key to encrypt registration information wherein the registration information includes at least one of an encryption key for a VoIP application and a secure identification code known to a server and provided to a user of the mobile device and use an SMS or MMS message to send the encrypted registration information from the mobile device to the server wherein the SMS or MMS message is originated at the mobile device and provides to the server the telephone number associated with the mobile device for comparison to telephone numbers known to the server. In this configuration the encrypted registration information can be decrypted at the server. The encryption can be symmetric or asymmetric encryption and the secure identification code can be provided to the user of the mobile device via an administrator of the server.

According to another aspect of the invention the server can be configured to verify at least one of the secure identification code and phone number associated with the mobile device and to send to the mobile device an encryption key for communication between the server and the VoIP application on the mobile device.

Also according to the invention there is provided a system of secure mobile voice communication over a mobile phone network. The system includes a server configured to communicate with a mobile device. The mobile device is configured to send an SMS or MMS message to the server wherein the SMS or MMS message is originated at the mobile device and thereby provides the phone number of the mobile device to the server so that it can be compared against a whitelist to authenticate the mobile device. The server is configured to establish an encryption key for the purpose of communication between the voice communication application on the mobile device and the server. The voice communication application can include a VoIP application. The mobile device can be configured to send to the server a secure identification code associated with the user and the server can be configured to use secure identification code to authenticate the user.

Also according to the invention a system is provided for establishing a registration for secure communication between a server and an application on a mobile device. The system includes a software module configured to run as an application on a mobile device wherein the mobile device has an associated phone number and the software module is configured to encrypt an SMS message or an MMS message via an encryption. The application is configured to create registration information including at least one of a secure identification code and an encryption key for encrypted communication between a server and the application. The mobile device is configured to send to the server a first SMS or MMS message originated by the mobile device and to thereby reveal the phone number to the server. The server is configured to verify the phone number of the mobile device originating the SMS or MMS message against a whitelist to authorize a registration between the mobile device and the server. The mobile device is configured to if the registration is authorized receive a code sent by the server to the application on the mobile device via a second SMS message or MMS message. Also the mobile device is configured to without user intervention extract the code from the second SMS or MMS message and send at least one of the registration information and the code to the server. The registration information can include an encryption key for encrypting the second SMS or MMS message before being sent by the server. The application can be configured to use a server public key to encrypt the registration information and the server can be configured to decrypt the registration information using a server private key. The application can be downloaded to the mobile device via a mobile network.

According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a system for VoIP communication over a mobile phone network. The system includes a server configured to communicate with a mobile device having a VoIP application on the mobile device. The server is configured to send a message to the mobile device when there is a phone call waiting to connect to the mobile device. The message includes at least one of an SMS message an MMS message and a push notification and the message includes information to cause the mobile device to contact the server to receive the phone call.

The present disclosure provides among other things a number of embodiments and methods for managing short messaging service SMS messages and multimedia messaging service MMS messages in a secure manner and for transmitting receiving encrypting storing and the like of encrypted mobile voice communications and of personal information. While various embodiments and methods are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented.

Moreover for the sake of brevity certain sub components of the individual operating components conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical and or electronic couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical system.

Particular embodiments include methods for authorizing actions using mobile phones. Embodiments may include acts such as receiving from a person having authority to authorize the action an identification of a phone number for obtaining authorization for the action and receiving from a person seeking the action a request for authorization of the action. Certain embodiments also include acts such as sending a first message through a mobile phone network to the mobile phone including a description of the action for which authorization is requested and receiving from the first mobile phone a second message which authorizes the action. Actions that are authorized in different embodiments include computer access physical access and financial transactions as examples. In various embodiments the phone number may be received through the mobile phone network through the Internet through a local signal or directly from the user as examples.

Various embodiments of the invention provide on mobile devices items or information that might otherwise be found in a person s wallet or purse for example. Such a mobile device may be a phone Palm Pilot personal digital assistant or the like for example. The mobile device is often referred to herein as a phone or mobile phone but it should be understood that it may have other functionality or be another type of mobile device in some embodiments. Thus in certain embodiments a person may be able to leave their wallet or purse behind and bring just their phone for example when they leave home go shopping go to a restaurant travel or the like or their phone may provide a backup to their wallet for instance or vice versa. In other embodiments a phone may provide a portion of the functionality or information found in a wallet or may contain additional information or functionality as well.

In some embodiments a user may be able to enter information into a website or may authorize entry of information into the website by others which may be transmitted to the phone automatically for storage. In addition in some embodiments users may be able to enter information through their phone for transfer to the website server. In various embodiments third parties such as airlines financial institutions such as banks and the like may provide information to the website some or all of which may be transferred to the phone. Further in some embodiments certain such information may provide an alert or alarm to the user for example regarding important information such as notification of large deposits or withdrawals changes in flight information location of children etc. In various embodiments a user may be able to view other information on the phone on the website or both such as for example bank account balances transaction histories frequent flier miles credit card bills automatic deposits and withdrawals insurance information warranties service contracts and the like.

Examples of embodiments of the invention include apparatuses systems for instance with server modules and phone modules and methods of managing information and providing voice communications. Particular embodiments include systems of managing personal information and voice communications for a plurality of users each user having a mobile phone operating on a mobile phone network and methods of managing information for at least a plurality of users using the internet and mobile phones of the users.

As used herein a mobile device may be any device configured for transmitting and receiving electronic communications for example a cellular phone a satellite phone a Palm Pilot device personal digital assistant PDA BlackBerry device iPhone device iPad tablet computer Samsung Galaxy Note smartphone and tablet computer Samsung Galaxy Tab tablet computer smartphone desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer netbook portable device for communication or the like. Throughout various exemplary embodiments illustrated or discussed in this disclosure a mobile device may be referred to herein as a phone or mobile phone but it should be understood that it may have other functionality or be any other type of mobile device.

Moreover system may be a public system e.g. a system wherein any number of users may utilize system resources or a private closed system e.g. a limited access system with a circle of trust such that a user must be authorized to utilize particular system resources and or send and receive communications with other members of the circle of trust . In various embodiments system may be configured to allow communication only between users for example users and who are members of a particular trusted group. In this manner system may be particularly suitable for businesses military law enforcement governments and the like who wish to exchange highly sensitive and confidential information via system . For example system may be configured to enable communication only between members of a pre defined trusted group such as FBI agents ATF agents Army personnel and the like.

In the embodiment illustrated server is in communication with the Internet . However server may be in communication with a wireless carrier a private network a mobile phone another server and or the like via a wireless network or other means such that server does not need to be in communication with the Internet . In this embodiment server is part of system which provides an example of a system of managing personal information for a plurality of users e.g. to each user having a mobile phone e.g. to operating on a mobile phone network e.g. . In this example system includes on server at least one first software module . Although shown just on server in some embodiments module may be installed on or operating on more than one server. In certain embodiments software module may form at least one website . In this embodiment at least a plurality of users e.g. to may access or visit website through the Internet and elect to have their personal information managed through system using their mobile phones e.g. to . For example user may access website through computer and internet . In different embodiments computer may be a desk top personal computer a lap top or notebook computer a PDA etc. In some embodiments users may access website on server through their phones e.g. to through mobile phone network or both.

In various embodiments server is part of system and server is configured as a trusted gateway configured to manage encrypted messages. Server may provide any desired functionality to system for example managing client software installed on one or more mobile devices updating client software installed on one or more mobile devices issuing commands to client software tracking messages sent and received by client software and the like. Server may also manage encryption keys for client software generate new encryption keys communicate with a hardware security module for example a module located on another server coupled to the instant server and provide resiliency to increase the reliability of message delivery.

System further comprises on server at least one first software module . Although shown just on server in some embodiments module may be installed on or operating on more than one server. For example server may include multiple servers such as one or more of a firewall server a database server an SMS gateway server a web server a domain server or any other server. In certain embodiments software module may form at least one website . In certain embodiments multiple users e.g. to may access or visit website for example through the Internet and elect to send receive forward reply view sort and generate reports including compliancy reports through system using their mobile devices or other communications devices. Moreover one or more users may access or visit website via any suitable protocol for example WAP https and the like.

In some embodiments first software module provides secure storage for each user s e.g. to personal information for example received from the user. In a number of embodiments storage may also be used to store personal information about the users that has been received by module or server from at least one third party which may be acting on behalf of the user to provide information to the user for example. In the embodiment illustrated third party may provide such information to module through the Internet and third party may provide such information to module through mobile telephone network and the Internet . In some embodiments information that is communicated through mobile telephone network may also or instead be communicated through a traditional phone network for example that provides direct wired phone service for a number of users.

In many embodiments first software module or module described below provide secure storage for each user s e.g. to personal information for example information received from the user contents of sent and received SMS messages and the like. In a number of embodiments storage may also be used to store personal information about the users that has been received by module module or server from at least one third party which may be acting on behalf of the user to provide information to the user. In certain embodiments third party may provide such information to module or module through the Internet and third party may provide such information to module or module through mobile telephone network and the Internet . In some embodiments information that is communicated through mobile telephone network may also or instead be communicated through a traditional phone network for example that provides direct wired phone service for a number of users. Moreover third parties and can choose to deploy gateway at their respective data center behind their firewall. This provides each third party with another layer of security. Each third party can manage all access to server according to their internal security policy. All communication between gateway and mobile phone network e.g. carriers can be direct.

Module may be self updating e.g. when a new software update is available gateway may send a message to module informing module of the available update . The user s or third party s phone is informed of the update e.g. via a SMS or MMS message e.g. formatted with a command and asked for permission to update module . For example the message e.g. formatted with a command queries the user as to whether the user would like to receive the update. If the user accepts to receive the update then module terminates itself starts a browser to access server or gateway and downloads the latest version of module from server or gateway . Thus once permission is given to update module the new version of module is downloaded to the user s or third party s phone and installed over the old version of module . A message confirming installation of module may be sent to gateway . Moreover module may be configured to communicate with and or utilize multiple gateways .

In various embodiments customized versions of module may be provided in order to make module operative and or available for use on varying hardware for example various mobile phones and or computing platforms e.g. Google Android Java 2 Mobile Edition Windows Mobile Linux Microsoft Windows Mac OS Unix and the like . Moreover access to module may be controlled via a password a biometric and the like. Additionally module may contain and or be associated with information configured to identify a third party e.g. a reseller a referrer a corporation and the like in order to provide customized services and or tracking. For example a reseller may receive a commission based on the number of secure SMS messages transmitted by module s associated with the reseller.

Moreover module may be configured to utilize registration with a gateway for example gateway . In various embodiments registration may comprise a user taking affirmative steps for example inputting a secure identification provided by a gateway administrator inputting a short code a long code or a phone number for example a number associated with a cellular modem to facilitate routing of one or more messages. Furthermore registration may comprise exchanging encryption keys between a mobile device and a gateway. For example a server public key may be utilized to securely send the encryption key of module to a mobile device.

In certain embodiments module is registered on gateway in order to facilitate communications between module and gateway . For example registration may be accomplished through use of a default server public key a unique module public key a short code and a unique secure identification code. In this manner a module may know how to contact gateway in order to register. Module encrypts the unique secure identification code and the newly generated module public key with the default server public key and sends the result in an SMS message to the short code. Gateway decrypts the SMS message using a default server private key. Gateway verifies the unique secure identification code and the phone number associated with module . If the result is not verified an error message is returned to module . If the result is verified gateway transmits a new server public key to module .

Gateway then creates a unique AES key and sends this key together with registration information to module via a registration message encrypted with the module public key. Module decrypts the registration message using module private key. Module then transmits a registration acknowledgement message encrypted with a unique AES key associated with module to gateway . Upon receipt of the registration acknowledgement message at gateway module is registered with gateway .

In some embodiments as illustrated in system can manage mobile voice communications in an encrypted and secure manner. Some of the problems and vulnerabilities of mobile voice communications have been described. A network manager can be configured as a part of a fourth software module in module in or second software module or or separate from modules and or . Network manager acts as a module to measure network conditions on both sides transmit receive of a call through mobile phone network . Network conditions can include latency throughput and bandwidth of mobile phone network . The data thereby collected by network manager is used to make informed decisions about choosing a more suitable codec for handling the call on mobile phone network . In some embodiments fourth software module can be configured as one or more of a secure messaging module second software module a secure voice module secure audio module secure video module secure video streaming module secure video conferencing module and secure multimedia module.

In each combination of these parameters is associated with a vector in a 3D cylindrical representation. These vectors are generated during a call on mobile phone network frequently with fixed variable intervals. Depending on the call quality each vector is going to fall in or out of a 3D volume with fuzzy boundaries. Over time the 3D volume becomes a visualization of the good audio quality versus bad audio quality on the call. Each codec has its own 3D volume so fourth software module or second software module in can decide to switch between codecs depending on how frequent the vectors fall in out of a specific codec. shows one of the possible representations of the aforementioned visualization. The network manager can periodically trade network measurements with its counter party so that disruptions in the status of mobile phone network can be accommodated quickly and with assurance. The defined conical region within the cylinder demonstrates where a call can exist. That region s dimensions depend on the codec and the transport in use. The network manager can find and use the codec that best fits the vector inside the usable region.

Referring now to a system for managing mobile voice communications in an encrypted and secure manner includes the second software module the secure messaging software module a fourth software module a network manager and a SIP module . The database in can be in storage see . PBX is Private Branch Exchange which is a PSTN telephone network usually used within a private enterprise . The Internet and mobile phone network can be combined as Internet and or a mobile phone network see . Fourth software module can be a part of secure messaging module or second software module in or be separate from module or second software module . Server gateway or the administrator of the server gateway can send or communicate a secure identification code or Secure ID to the user via fourth software module module or second software module see step of . The secure identification code may be communicated via SMS MMS and or data or via a communication channel other than SMS MMS and or data.

Fourth software module configured as an application on mobile phone module configured as an application on mobile phone or second software module configured as an application on mobile phone can send a request to server indicating an interest or a request to register with server step . In some embodiments the request may or may not be encrypted. In some embodiments the encryption of the request may or may not use a unique encryption key. In some embodiments the encryption of the request may or may not use a pre established key which may be a symmetric key or an asymmetric key. Server sends a certificate signed by a trusted authority to fourth software module module or second software module step . In some embodiments the certificate may be encrypted using the unique encryption key. In some embodiments the encryption of the certificate may use a pre established key which may be a symmetric key or an asymmetric key.

Fourth software module module or second software module verifies that the certificate from server is genuine using a public root CA Certificate Authority step . If the certificate is not genuine then the registration process is aborted and in some embodiments the incident is reported logged or alerted to the user and or administrator of server . If the certificate from server is genuine then the fourth software module module or second software module sends its own certificate e.g. the certificate from the application on mobile phone to server step . The certificate from fourth software module module or second software module can be encrypted with the certificate from server before the certificate from fourth software module module or second software module is sent to server . In some embodiments fourth software module module or second software module may also send the secure identification code or Secure ID from server if available in an encrypted manner with the certificate from the server to server .

In some embodiments fourth software module module or second software module may also send additional information such as one or more of mobile device information e.g. from mobile phone an application version an encryption version a list of installed applications and an Operating System version in an encrypted manner using the certificate from the server to server . The server sends a confirmation of the registration including a key to fourth software module module or second software module the confirmation can be encrypted with the certificate from the fourth software module module or second software module step 

In some embodiments server may also send policies to instruct the fourth software module module or second software module to change its configuration which also can be in an encrypted manner using the certificate from fourth software module module or second software module . In some embodiments the fourth software module module or second software module confirms that the confirmation from server is received and processed correctly. In some embodiments the confirmation can be encrypted with the key received from server step . In some embodiments of all or some of the steps are sent via SMS. In other embodiments of some or all of the steps are via a data channel of the mobile phone network . In other embodiments of all or some of the steps are sent via SMS MMS.

A number of embodiments of systems and methods of the present invention use encryption to address the problems associated with existing encryption models and limitations of throughput in mobile voice communications over a mobile phone network. Although some of the standard features of the mobile device such as the address book allow for sharing of information between voice calls and the SMS editor on the mobile phone the challenges induced by the differences have resulted in keeping the secure SMS module and the secure voice module fourth software module module or second software module as separate applications on the mobile device. For example the differences between the encryption techniques of the data channel and the control channel has resulted in keeping the secure SMS module and the secure voice module fourth software module module or second software module as separate applications on the mobile device. One of the important characteristics of traffic channel is support of Internet Protocol IP which is not available or feasible on control channel. Hence in this invention when discussing characteristics of the traffic channel one can assume any channel capable of supporting IP. Some channels may be any part of the mobile phone network or the Internet.

Some embodiments and methods of the invention establish a secure voice communication based on a unique encryption key that is established between a first software module of the server and fourth software module module or second software module of the mobile device. The secure SMS registration process for establishing such a unique encryption key using SMS MMS data or a combination thereof can include using one or more or any combination of AES Advanced Encryption Standard Blowfish encryption ECC Elliptic Curve Cryptography RSA encryption or any other suitable encryption. Furthermore the invention uses a dynamic codec switcher to accommodate network changes on the mobile phone network for a variety of parameters such as latency drop rate and bandwidth on the mobile phone network. Furthermore the invention allows for in call switching of codecs codec hot swap and uses a network manager. The network manager can be configured as a part of a fourth software module module or a second software module or separate from them and acts as a module to measure network conditions on both sides transmit receive of a call through the mobile phone network. The network manager can also switch communications from a mobile phone network to the Internet a WiFi network or a local network and vice versa . Network conditions can include latency throughput and bandwidth of the mobile phone network. The data thereby collected by the network manager is used to make informed decisions about choosing a more suitable codec for handling the call on the mobile phone network.

Mobile communication takes place over traffic and control channels of a mobile phone network . While the traffic channel is basically used for carrying signals such as voice calls data and multimedia the control channel is used for SMS short messaging service amongst other operating signals. Other operating signals can include synchronization signals paging signals and access signals. One of the common protocols for transmission of voice communication over Internet Protocol IP is Voice over IP VoIP . VoIP is commonly used for end to end encryption of voice communication. VoIP takes place over the traffic channel as it uses data signals for the transmission. Similar to voice calls one main assumption for VoIP communication is that both sides of the communication are online in real time and available simultaneously for the communication. Contrary to voice calls and VoIP SMS is a store and forward technique which does not require an end to end connection to be available simultaneously. Furthermore SMS is optimized for transmission of short messages as compared to longer messages used for voice multimedia or other . Traditionally when securing VoIP communication the encryption techniques that are used for encrypting VoIP rely on characteristics of the data channel and therefore vary in techniques used for encryption of SMS which relies on characteristics of the control channel .

Embodiments and methods of the present invention can take advantage of some of the characteristics of the control channel to enhance encryption of VoIP communication. Furthermore they can take advantage of combining a secure SMS module with a secure voice module secure audio module secure video module secure video streaming module secure video conferencing module and secure multimedia module as well as secure IP Internet Protocol SMS which sends SMS over the traffic channel. IPSMS is a way of emulating SMS messages via data. SMS uses a control channel. Data uses a traffic channel. The characteristics of the two channels are somewhat different. It is possible to send short messages on a data channel to emulate SMS but not all characteristic of SMS on a control channel will be available on IPSMS.

A number of embodiments and methods use encryption to address the problems associated with the vulnerability of using SSL TLS in mobile voice communications. They can use a control channel of a mobile phone network e.g. for transmitting receiving SMS MMS messages where possible and can perform a security handshake such as using a secure SMS module or API. The control channel of a mobile phone network can be used with a registration process which provides additional reliability and a higher level of security for voice communication. Such methodology utilizes a secondary communication method or channel e.g. using both the control channel and the traffic channel which is more difficult to exploit by attackers. Furthermore when SMS MMS is used the phone number of the sender or user can be verified and a whitelist process can establish the list of mobile devices authorized for registration. Whitelist is defined herein and can also include a process to determine which types of information or data are permitted to be transmitted or received through the mobile phone network. Furthermore when SMS is used then the control channel of the mobile phone network is used which is more resilient and uses less bandwidth . Using whitelisting in the control channel is more secure than using the data channel.

Amongst other things the registration process that takes place over the control channel using SMS authenticates the user of the mobile device non repudiation the mobile device itself and the server gateway . Authentication of the mobile device is one of the important characteristics of registration through the control channel that is not available in the traffic channel. An authenticated mobile device acts as what you have which enhances the security of what you know. Traditionally what you have has been established via security dongle that are provided to each individual user which is costly compared to the mobile device which is already owned by the user .

Additionally via the registration process a secure communication connection is established between the mobile device and the server and a unique encryption key is established between the mobile device and the server. The unique encryption key can be renewed based on policy decided by the administrator of the system.

Once the registration process is established over the control channel all other modules operating on the traffic channel can utilize the unique encryption key that has been established for communication transmission and receipt of information . Other benefits of combining the secure SMS module with other modules is the sharing of one or more secure address books between all modules having a single sign on process having common configuration sharing of the storage area enhanced user experience enhanced overall efficiency of combining secure SMS communication with secure voice communication and more.

By combining the secure SMS and secure voice modules the secure SMS module can also benefit from characteristics of the traffic channel including send and receiving information such as IPSMS policy information group information over IP. In this invention secure SMS and secure voice can sync the phones stored in the secure address book with the server and identify the phones in the secure address book that have similar software and are capable of secure communication.

In some embodiments the unique encryption key of the registration process is used in conjunction with SSL TLS and the SIP Session Initiation Protocol packets are encrypted and decrypted at the server and mobile device. In other embodiments the unique encryption key or the registration process is used in conjunction with SRTP Secure Real time Transport Protocol and packets are encrypted and decrypted at the server and mobile device.

An SIP packet containing the unique encryption key is encrypted at server before being transferred through a TLS SSL channel via mobile phone network to mobile phone . Secure communication such as by SMS is used to more reliably authenticate mobile phone . Utilizing secure communication such as SMS server is capable of verifying the phone number of mobile phone . Furthermore the secure communication e.g. SMS message is encrypted to prevent eavesdropping and further strengthen the security of the communication between server and mobile phone . In an alternate embodiment an MMS message can be used.

Some embodiments and methods of the invention use encryption a unique encryption key configuration of mobile devices and dynamic command delivery by encrypted mobile communications e.g. SMS MMS message . This is done to address the problems associated with the vulnerability of using mobile voice communications. As illustrated in an encryption key or keys can be used and configurations and other information can be communicated through an encrypted method. The key or keys can also dynamically be changed through an encrypted method. Commands to perform tasks can additionally be delivered to a mobile device such as a handset or an application through an encrypted method.

In the past mobile applications that primarily have used data for communication relied on pull technology to determine if the server intends to send information to the mobile application. In another words the mobile application contacts the server periodically to determine if the server has some information than need to be sent to the mobile device. This process is not considered very efficient as it excessively uses the resources of the mobile device. To this extent some mobile Operating System manufacturers introduced the concept of push notification by which the mobile application is notified when it needs to contact the server. On the other hand mobile applications that utilize an SMS or MMS channel rely on push technology where the message is pushed from server to the mobile application.

Since push notification is not reliable or for the purpose of redundancy it is possible to send an SMS or MMS message either encrypted or plain text to a mobile application running on the mobile device to instruct the application to contact the server. This technique could be used along with push notification or just by itself. Secure voice mobile applications primarily utilize a data channel and are in constant communication with the server to know if there is a task waiting for them. For example to learn if there is a phone call waiting for connection to the mobile device. If secure voice communications also utilize SMS or MMS disclosed herein the server can send a message to the mobile phone when there is a phone call waiting to connect and the SMS can wake up the mobile application and instruct it to contact the server. Thus with some embodiments and methods of the invention commands to perform tasks can be delivered to handset or application through an encrypted method such as Secure SMS including but not limited to the ability to stop activity on the data channel and application or put it to sleep to preserve battery and device resources as well as wake up a data connection via SMS Push Notification or another method.

Some embodiments and methods of the invention use an encrypted address book scan and encrypted mobile communications e.g. SMS MMS message to address the problems associated with the vulnerability of using mobile voice communications. Depending on the server settings the user s address book on the user s mobile device can be scanned and the server can find others who have such secure communication software module or application on their mobile devices if such others users have chosen to be listed. This makes it convenient for the user to setup secure calls with other users using their mobile devices and encrypted mobile voice communications. Users can also share a secure contact list between applications on the mobile device and the server and or among applications on the mobile device. Users can also share unique login setup configuration and other similar features using mobile voice communications that are secure. All the information between users is transferred in an encrypted way e.g. voice talking on the mobile device text SMS MMS messages data or any other .

Once the registration process is established over the control channel all other modules operating on the traffic channel can utilize the unique encryption key that has been established for communication transmission and receipt of information . Other benefits of combining the secure SMS module with other modules is the sharing of one or more secure address books between all modules having a single sign on process having common configuration sharing of the storage area enhanced user experience enhanced overall efficiency of combining secure SMS communication with secure voice communication and more.

By combining the secure SMS and secure voice modules the secure SMS module can also benefit from characteristics of the traffic channel including send and receiving information such as IPSMS policy information and group information over IP. Secure SMS and secure voice can sync the phones stored in the secure address book with the server and identify the phones in the secure address book that have similar software and are capable of secure communication.

In some embodiments the unique encryption key of the registration process is used in conjunction with SSL TLS and the SIP packet are encrypted and decrypted at the server and mobile device. In other embodiments the unique encryption key or the registration process is used in conjunction with SRTP Secure Real time Transport Protocol and packets are encrypted and decrypted at the server and mobile device.

An SIP packet containing the unique encryption key can be encrypted at server before being transferred through a TLS SSL channel via mobile phone network to mobile phone . Secure communication such as by SMS is used to more reliably authenticate mobile phone . Utilizing secure communication such as SMS server is capable of verifying the phone number of mobile phone . Furthermore the secure communication e.g. SMS message is encrypted to prevent eavesdropping and further strengthen the security of the communication between server and mobile phone . In an alternate embodiment an MMS message can be used.

Some embodiments and methods of the invention can store or make available information items functionality or a combination thereof in a mobile phone. Various embodiments include a software application loaded on a mobile phone that stores certain information for access by the user. In addition various embodiments of the invention include an Internet website through which certain information can be transmitted to the phone. In some embodiments the information on the website can be updated through the phone by the user through a personal computer or both. Furthermore in some embodiments various third parties such as merchants businesses banks airlines and the like may provide information to the website. Information may be transmitted from the website to the phone or vice versa via a telephone signal or through a mobile telephone network for example at particular times or as needed. In some embodiments a user may be alerted to certain information or changes in information that meet certain criteria.

Various embodiments and methods of the invention provide as an object or benefit that they partially or fully address one or more of the needs potential areas for benefit or improvement and functions described herein. For instance various embodiments may store or make available information items or functionality in a mobile phone. Various embodiments may provide a higher level of data security be easier to use accomplish more functions contain more useful information provide a better level of control provide easier management and replacement if lost or stolen or a combination thereof in comparison with various prior art. Various embodiments may for example manage personal information for a number of users sort certain information provide alarms transfer information between a server and mobile phones and store information on mobile phones in a manner that facilitates access by the users. Further features and advantages of the invention may be apparent to those skilled in the art

In particular embodiments this invention provides for example systems of managing personal information for a plurality of users each user having a mobile phone operating on a mobile phone network. In particular embodiments the system includes at least one first software module operating on at least one server and forming at least one website wherein a plurality of users visit the website through the Internet and elect to have their personal information managed through the system using their mobile phones. In addition in these embodiments the first software module provides secure storage for each user s personal information received from the user and from at least one third party acting on behalf of the user to provide information to the user and the first software module filters the personal information and selects nuggets of the personal information which the first software module sends to the mobile phone. Furthermore such systems also include a second software module operating independently on at least a plurality of the mobile phones and the second software module is configured to receive the nuggets of the personal information of the user from the first software module through the Internet and through the mobile phone network and to store the personal information on the mobile phone so that the personal information may later be accessed by the user even when the mobile phone is not connected to a mobile phone network by viewing a folder containing nuggets organized by subject matter.

In some such embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the second software module is downloadable by users from the first software module to the mobile phones through the website and through the mobile phone network. In addition in some embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the first software module includes instructions to search at least a plurality of e mails for keywords identifying numbers or both and to select the nuggets of the personal information from the e mails using the keywords or identifying numbers. In some such embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the first software module contains instructions to receive a command from the user through the mobile phone network to dispute a financial transaction for a particular account described in the nuggets of the personal information and upon the receipt of the command to communicate or transmit a dispute of the transaction to a manager of the particular account for example through the Internet.

Furthermore in some embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the second software module contains instructions to allow the user to select at least a portion of the personal information that is stored on the mobile phone select or enter an identifier of a different party a different party mobile phone or both and elect to send the at least a portion of the personal information to the different party mobile phone. In many embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the first software module further contains instructions to evaluate whether the different party mobile phone contains a copy of the second software module and if the different party mobile phone contains a copy of the second software module then to send the at least a portion of the personal information to the copy of the second software module on the different party mobile phone through the mobile phone network. In some such embodiments for at least a plurality of the users the first software module further contains instructions to receive a command from the user through the mobile phone network and upon the receipt of the command to transmit at least a portion of the nuggets of the personal information to a different party through the Internet.

In other embodiments the invention provides various methods of managing information for at least a plurality of users using the Internet and mobile phones of the users. In a particular such embodiment the method includes for each of a plurality of the users in any order receiving a first set of personal information of the user from the user through the Internet the mobile phone of the user or both wherein the first set of personal information includes identification of a criteria for alarming and for each of a plurality of the users receiving a second set of personal information of each user from at least one third party through a network. In this embodiment the method also includes for each of a plurality of the users selecting a fraction of the second set of personal information and for each of a plurality of the users transmitting the fraction of the second set of personal information to the user s mobile phone through the mobile phone network for storage on the user s mobile phone using a second software module residing on the phone. Furthermore in this embodiment the second software module organizes the fraction of the second set of personal information and makes the fraction of the second set of personal information accessible to the user. This embodiment also includes for each of a plurality of the users repeating at least a plurality of times the receiving of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction and the transmitting of the fraction. And this method also includes for each of a plurality of the users using the second software module providing an alarm to the user if at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information satisfies the criteria.

Another embodiment of such a method includes receiving a first set of personal information of the user from the user through the Internet or through the mobile phone of the user or both and upon instruction by the user downloading a second software module to the user s mobile phone through the mobile phone network. This embodiment also includes receiving a second set of personal information of the user from at least one third party through a network. This embodiment further includes selecting a fraction of the second set of personal information encrypting the fraction of the second set of personal information and transmitting the fraction of the second set of personal information to the user s mobile phone through the mobile phone network for storage on the user s mobile phone using the second software module residing on the phone. Further this embodiment includes decrypting the fraction of the second set of personal information and using the second software module residing on the phone organizing the fraction of the second set of personal information based on topic as well as using the second software module residing on the phone to make the fraction of the second set of personal information accessible to the user based on the topic of the information. Even further this embodiment includes repeating at least a plurality of times the receiving of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction the encrypting of the fraction the transmitting of the fraction the decrypting of the fraction the organizing of the fraction and the making the fraction accessible to the user and the repeating further includes synchronizing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone with corresponding personal information that was already stored on the mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information based on the topic of the information.

In various embodiments of either of these methods for each of a plurality of the users the first set of personal information includes an identification of at least one financial account the second set of personal information includes an identification of deposits into the account withdrawals from the account and a balance of the account and the providing an alarm includes or an alarm is provided that includes alarming if a withdrawal exceeds a first threshold identified within the criteria alarming if the balance of the account drops below a second threshold identified within the criteria or both. Further in some of these methods for each of a plurality of the users the first set of personal information includes travel information an identification of a common carrier or a travel agent or a combination thereof the second set of personal information includes identification of a departure time and a departure location and the providing of an alarm includes or an alarm is provided that includes alarming if there is a change in the departure time the departure location or both.

In many embodiments the method further includes for each of a plurality of the users using local signal transmitting hardware located on the user s mobile phone and using the second software module under the control of the user transmitting a local signal includes at least a portion of the first set of personal information or the second set of personal information or both to a reader within proximity to the mobile phone. Further in particular embodiments for each of a plurality of the users the first set of personal information includes loyalty information or identification of a merchant or a service provider or a combination thereof the first set of personal information or the second set of personal information or both includes the loyalty information the local signal includes at least a portion of the loyalty information and the transmitting of the local signal includes transmitting the at least a portion of the loyalty information to the merchant the service provider or both. Further in particular embodiments the method further includes using signal receiving hardware located on the user s mobile phone and using the second software module under the control of the user receiving a local signal from a transmitter within proximity to the mobile phone.

Further still in various embodiments the method further includes in any order for at least a plurality of the users upon instruction by the user transmitting at least a portion of the second set of personal information to a different party mobile phone through the mobile phone network for storage on the different party mobile phone for access by the different party. In some embodiments the method further includes in any order for at least a plurality of the users upon command by the user wherein the command is provided through the mobile phone of the user transmitting at least a portion of the second set of personal information to a different party through the Internet. And in particular embodiments the portion of the second set of personal information includes a travel itinerary.

Still further in some embodiments the method further includes for each of a plurality of the users before the transmitting of the fraction of the second set of personal information to the user s mobile phone encrypting the fraction of the second set of personal information compressing the fraction of the second set of personal information or both and the repeating includes repeating the encrypting compressing or both. In some such methods for each of a plurality of the users the second software module organizes the fraction of the second set of personal information based on topic and makes the fraction of the second set of personal information accessible to the user based on the topic of the information.

Additionally in many embodiments for each of a plurality of the users the repeating includes replacing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information based on the topic of the information. And in various embodiments for each of a plurality of the users the repeating includes synchronizing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone with corresponding personal information that was already stored on the mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information based on the topic of the information. And further in many embodiments the receiving of the first set of personal information the receiving of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction and the transmitting of the fraction are all performed by the first software module residing on a server connected to the Internet wherein the first software module further forms at least one Internet website.

Some embodiments and methods of the invention are configured for managing i.e. creating editing viewing compressing decompressing disassembling reassembling queuing routing encrypting decrypting sending receiving replying forwarding storing and or the like communications for example short messaging service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages and other information transmission and or the like in a secure manner e.g. in an encrypted or otherwise secured manner . In an embodiment a secure short messaging service SMS system comprises a software module configured for use on a device such as a mobile device. The software module is configured to encrypt an SMS or MMS message via a first encryption. A gateway is configured to communicate with the mobile device. The gateway is configured to receive the encrypted SMS message from the mobile device.

In yet another embodiment a method of deleting information on a mobile device comprises transmitting to a mobile device a secure message comprising a wipe instruction. At the mobile device at least one item of information is deleted responsive to the wipe instruction.

Referring to a registration process steps through is put in place to authenticate the user mobile phone and server and to create a secure communication between mobile phone and server .

In addition module may be configured to support methods for determining unauthorized access to module i.e. intrusion detection and the like . For example if the correct password to gain access to module is not provided for three 3 consecutive times or any desired value chosen by a user or a gateway administrator data stored by module and or module itself may be deleted.

Additionally a module on a mobile device may be registered with multiple gateways simultaneously. For example a module may be registered with a first gateway associated with a GSM network of a first carrier and communications between module and the first gateway may be transmitted via a GSM modem. The same module may also be registered with a second gateway associated with a CDMA network of a second carrier and communications between module and the second gateway may be transmitted via a CDMA modem. Module may be registered with any suitable number of gateways in order to facilitate communications with various intended message recipients. Similarly a gateway may be configured to communicate with a first group of modules associated with a first carrier via a first GSM modem configured to communicate with a second group of modules associated with a second carrier via a second GSM modem configured to communicate with a third group of modules via a dedicated short code and so on. In this manner gateway may communicate with multiple modules via a cellular modem and or other communications device appropriate for each particular module e.g. based on particular mobile phone hardware for example .

In certain embodiments gateway may be configured to allow message such as SMS or IPSMS message from a module to be delivered only to other modules who are in a common circle of trust with the message sender. Stated another way in various embodiments a module may only be permitted to communicate with other members of a predefined group. For example a module utilized by a sensitive government agency may be permitted to communicate only with other members of the same agency. Moreover gateway may also be configured to allow an SMS message from a module to be delivered only to other modules who are in a common circle of trust with each other but not with the message sender. In this manner gateway may be further secured as unintended and or undesired communications outside a particular circle of trust or other group may be reduced and or eliminated. Further gateway may be configured to allow an SMS message from a module to be delivered to any other module . Moreover gateway may be configured to contact another gateway for information regarding a module registered with the other gateway . Gateway may also be configured to route at least one message of module to another gateway .

In various embodiments gateway may be configured with a whitelist comprising a list of approved modules and or mobile devices which may be authorized to be registered with gateway . For example a user may desire to enroll in mobile banking services offered by third party . User communicates the desire to third party who approves the request. The module associated with user may then be added to a whitelist on gateway associated with third party . User may then register their module with gateway . In this manner a pre approved trusted set of modules may be defined and or registered such that communications between members of the whitelist and or one or more third parties may be facilitated. Moreover each module and or mobile device in a whitelist may be configured with a unique identification code. The unique verification code may be valid for a limited period of time for example six hours. In this manner security may be improved as a module may be required to both be a member of a whitelist and provide a unique identification code in order to register with gateway and or to communicate with other modules via gateway .

In certain embodiments third party also provides information to module or module on server through a communication means other than the Internet . Such a communication means may be for example a private network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a telephone network a financial or bank card network etc. Third parties and are examples of data providers or personal data providers. Third parties to may be for example lottery organizers or operators e.g. a government agency a state or a gambling organization brokers for lottery organizers e.g. resellers convenience stores or server distributors for lottery organizers e.g. resellers convenience stores or server financial institutions airlines bank card providers merchants an employer or employee of the user news providers health care providers insurance companies stock brokers governmental agencies non governmental organizations etc. or any of these that may be functional on line.

Module server and or gateway or other components utilizing encryption may utilize any suitable encryption techniques and or security models to encrypt decrypt compress decompress or otherwise manipulate and or process information for example symmetric key asymmetric key AES block cipher and the like. Moreover module server gateway and or other components may update revise expand replace or otherwise modify the security model and or encryption technique utilized as desired.

Module can be configured to store a set number of messages on server gateway or the user s phone. Module can be configured to store the latest specified number of messages set by the user server or gateway . Older messages may be deleted to make room for new messages although permanent means of storage can also be used . Users can mark messages that should be exempt from this deletion process. Such marked messages may be stored until manually deleted by the user server or gateway .

In certain embodiments users and may communicate with each other through SMS messages or other messages in a secure manner. For example module or a second software module described below on the mobile phone of user may send an SMS message intended for delivery to a mobile phone of user . Module is accessed and installed onto the user s mobile phone much like module or module are accessed and installed onto the user s mobile phone. In many embodiments a text message large text file or other information desired to be transmitted may need to be in a particular format in order to be able to transmit it using one or more SMS messages e.g. due to the limitation of the number of characters that can be transmitted in an SMS message . In one example numerous text messages are sent from server or phone of user to phone of user the text messages are compiled at phone of user and user reviews one large text file or text message on phone . In this example the transmission of one text message or multiple text messages is seamless to user e.g. user receives one large text file or text message instead of multiple text messages . This format can be useful in sending information using text messages without the limitation of the number of characters typically found in text messaging. Stated another way when the size of a particular piece of desired information exceeds a message size threshold multiple messages may be utilized to convey such desired information to and or from a mobile device.

With reference now to and in various embodiments communications between one or more users and or third parties can be routed through a trusted gateway . In this manner system security may be improved. Gateway communicates with one or more third parties and or users for example via mobile phones to send receive and store short messaging service SMS messages and multimedia messaging service MMS messages in a secure manner. Gateway may also communicate with users in a conventional unsecured manner if desired. Moreover users and or phones may download software e.g. secure SMS module from a server . Gateway may be notified of such installation and be configured to communicate with module accordingly.

In an embodiment gateway may be configured as Software as a Service SaaS . Gateway may be accessed by third parties authorized to utilize the SaaS via a secure network connection such as HTTPS. Performance of gateway may be scaled for example through use of load balanced server farms. Moreover gateway may be connected to wireless carrier networks via multiple redundant connections. In this manner gateway may be configured to support a scalable number of users.

In another embodiment gateway may be configured as an on site enterprise server. Gateway may thus be accessed by an organization s internal resources for example via a dedicated short code hosted with any supported aggregator or carrier. Moreover gateway may be configured to support a limited access circle of trust allowing communication only between certain authorized users. Gateway may also be configured with a customizable encryption scheme message storage and or archiving functionality and other features as desired by a particular organization deploying gateway on site.

In another embodiment gateway may be configured as a wireless carrier managed service. Gateway may thus be partially or fully integrated into a wireless carrier s gateway for example a wireless carrier s short messaging service center SMSC . Alternatively gateway may operate as a stand alone system. For example gateway may communicate with a SMSC of a first wireless carrier and with a SMSC of a second wireless carrier. Moreover a gateway may be associated with and or coupled to any number of SMSCs. Similarly one SMSC may associated with and or coupled to any number of gateways . In this manner gateway may be configured to support a scalable number of users in a wireless carrier environment and gateway may facilitate secure delivery of messages across various networks.

With reference now to and in various embodiments one or more of third parties and can create an account associated with gateway step . Third parties and notify users and to download module onto phones and step . Alternately third parties and can send module to users and through a MMS Multimedia Messaging Service or WAP Wireless Application Protocol push step . The user downloads the module step . One or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces and https Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Secure Socket Layer or http Hypertext Transfer Protocol can be used between server or gateway and third parties and or users and . Moreover server gateway third parties and and or users and may communicate via any suitable protocol method or means. Accordingly the methods of the present disclosure are suitable for use on Global System for Mobile Communications GSM networks code division multiple access CDMA networks time division multiple access TDMA networks frequency division multiple access FDMA networks transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP networks satellite communications networks and or the like and or any combination of the same.

A secure SMS API is used by third parties to send a SMS or MMS message to gateway or server step . A secure SMS API may utilize HTTPS Web Services Java API and or any other suitable protocols. A determination is made as to whether the user has module loaded on their phone or step . If the user has module loaded on its phone then the user receives a secure SMS or MMS message on their phone in module step . An acknowledgement message may be sent back to the sender of the message e.g. user or or third party or step . Once the receiving user opens the message it received step another acknowledgement message may be sent to the sender via server or gateway confirming that the user opened the message step . If the user does not have module loaded on their phone then the user may receive a link to download module onto their phone step the message may be sent in clear text the message may be skipped an anonymous message retrieval method as discussed above may be utilized and or the like.

In various embodiments with continued reference to a user downloads module step . When the user elects to send a message from its phone to the phone of another user or third party step the user enters one or more phone numbers to send a message to in its phone alternatively the user may select from a secure address book on the user s phone step . For example using a secure address book the user can import their general address book content from their phone into their secure SMS address book e.g. located in a database created by module . The information in the secure SMS address book is encrypted and stored on the phone. In this manner if the phone is lost or stolen those with access to the phone may be prevented from extracting personal contact information or other sensitive information from the phone.

The user s message is encrypted and sent to gateway step . As previously discussed a determination is made as to whether the receiving user has module loaded on its phone step . If the user has module loaded on its phone then the user receives a secure SMS or MMS message on their phone in module step . An acknowledgement for example a delivery confirmation is sent back to the sender of the message step . Once the receiving user opens the message it received step then another acknowledgement for example a read confirmation is sent to the sender via server or gateway confirming that the user opened the message step . In certain embodiments when a user replies to or forwards a message a message identification is included in the message to enable tracking of which message was replied to forwarded and the like. In some embodiments additional information may be embedded into the message for example a total number of messages a number representing the sub message in the message chain and the like. In this manner a thread of related messages may be managed.

In various embodiments the sender could log into a website associated with server or gateway to determine if the message has been delivered and opened. In another example when the receiving user opens the message module automatically deletes the message within a predetermined period of time after the message is opened. In another example when the receiving user opens and closes the message module automatically deletes the message either immediately or within a predetermined period of time after the message is closed . Server gateway or module can create such an automatic deletion process by including a field in the header of the message or in the body of the message with a command to delete the message upon one of the exemplary events or other defined event time period and the like . Users and third parties can view the status of every message. For sent messages users and third parties can tell when each message was sent when each message was delivered and when each message was opened e.g. via time date and status information about the message . For example one or more icons may be provided e.g. within module via a web browser and the like in order to indicate the status of a particular message e.g. sent delivered read replied to forwarded deleted and the like .

With reference now to and in some embodiments third parties and and or users and can elect to wipe their phone e.g. delete one or more items of information or data remotely step . For example if a phone is lost misplaced or no longer being used wiping the phone of any personal information messages or other information may be desired. Third parties or and or users or may utilize a secure SMS API or other method to send a wipe command to one or more phones step . In one example the user can access the third party s website or server in order to send a wipe command to the user s phone step . Gateway authenticates the user encrypts a wipe command and sends the encrypted wipe command to the user s phone via a SMS or MMS message or via other suitable method e.g. within the body of a message in the header of a message and the like step . Module on the user s phone receives the encrypted wipe command and decrypts the encrypted wipe command step . A secure SMS database created by module on the user s phone is deleted based on the decrypted wipe command step . Moreover a wipe command may also result in deletion of data other than or in addition to a secure SMS database. For example via a wipe command the memory contents of a phone or data for other applications may be at least partially and or entirely wiped deleted reset and the like. Additionally module may be configured to automatically wipe a secure SMS database and or an entire phone memory responsive to repeated failed local authorization attempts or other reasons as desired. In this manner security of data located on a phone may be enhanced.

Moreover in various embodiments one or more components of system may be configured to log record or otherwise monitor communications between a phone and a server for example to detect attempts to spoof or otherwise impersonate a phone or other telecommunications device or otherwise misrepresent the origination or other attributes of one or more messages. System may also inform a user a system administrator a third party and the like of the contents of such records for example attempts to spoof a user s identity or to send messages purporting to come from a particular user or a particular mobile device.

Turning now to in some embodiments a user sends a message from one phone to another e.g. from phone or to phone or in a secure manner step . Prior to sending the message the message is encrypted on the first phone e.g. using a first encryption key step . The encrypted message is sent to gateway or server step and gateway or server receives the encrypted message step . The encrypted message is decrypted at gateway or server e.g. using the first encryption key step . A determination is made as to whether the message is from one phone to another of a user step . If the message is not from one phone to another of a user e.g. from a user phone to a third party then the message is sent to the third parties server for example using Web Services Java remote method invocation RMI HTTP S Post and the like step . A delivery confirmation may then be sent to the phone. If the message is from one phone to another of a user then the message is encrypted e.g. using a second encryption key at gateway or server for the recipient user step . The encrypted message is sent to the receiving user s phone step . The receiving user s phone receives the encrypted message. step . A delivery confirmation is sent to gateway or server that the message was delivered to the receiving user s phone step . The encrypted message is decrypted e.g. using the second encryption key at the receiving user s phone and opened. A delivery confirmation may be displayed on the sender s phone by changing the icon associated with the sent message or may be shown on a status page. Once the receiving user opens the decrypted message an open acknowledgement or other suitable read confirmation is sent to gateway or server step . Gateway or server may forward the open acknowledgement to the sender s phone. The open acknowledgement may be displayed on the sender s phone by changing the icon associated with the sent message may be shown on a status page and or the like.

In various embodiments the original message sent is encrypted differently than the message finally received so that only users or third parties who have the relevant encrypted key can decrypt open and read the message. Each user or third party can have their own unique key so that one user or third party cannot access open or read another user or third party s message. Each unique key can also be changed as desired for example periodically for additional security. Moreover a user may modify its own encryption key manually or at a specific time interval. This key change made by the user is communicated to gateway to keep module in synchronization with gateway . Moreover the encryption key associated with a particular mobile device may be stored off the mobile device for additional security.

In certain embodiments an encryption key associated with a particular module may be updated. Gateway is configured with two encryption keys per module a current key and a new key. Module is configured to use the current key. Responsive to a predetermined interval a key change request from module and or a key change instruction from gateway module is configured to replace the current key with the new key. The current key is kept active on gateway and a new key is generated. A key change command including the new key is sent to module . The status of module is changed to from current to pending . Messages to and from module are held in a queue on gateway until the status of module returns to current .

When the key change command is received by module module stores the new key in place of the current key and transmits a key change acknowledgement to gateway using the new key. When gateway receives the key change acknowledgement from module the new key is copied to the current key and the new key is set to a blank value. The status of module is changed to current . Messages in the queue for module may then be processed utilizing the current key which was formerly the new key and messages sent and or received using the old key formerly the current key will fail and may be logged.

In the event module does not return a key change acknowledgement after a key change command is sent to module gateway may re send the key change command to module one or more times. If a key change acknowledgement is not received from module for example within a predetermined time period in response to a predetermined number of transmitted key change commands and the like the status of module may be changed to suspended . Moreover gateway may be configured to periodically check all pending key change requests resend key change commands and or disable one or more modules as appropriate.

If module is suspended responsive to an uncompleted key change or disabled by an administrator associated with gateway module may be required to re register with gateway . Upon re registration with gateway the status of module may be set to current and queued messages for module may be processed.

In various embodiments one or more messages may be queued and or otherwise stored on gateway . Messages queued on gateway may be encrypted via a third encryption key for example a storage encryption key associated with gateway . Queued messages may be marked for automatic or manual processing. Messages marked for automatic processing may be processed when the associated module returns to current status. Messages marked for manual processing may be processed via a system administrator or other manual process. Messages may be kept in a queue for a predetermined period of time for example three days. Messages which have been in a queue longer than a predetermined period of time may be archived.

As discussed above in various embodiments module may have a status associated therewith for example pending whitelisted current suspended disabled and the like. A whitelisted module has been placed on a whitelist but has not registered with gateway . A current module has registered with gateway and its encryption key is up to date. A pending module has registered with gateway and a key change command has been sent to module but a key change acknowledgement has not yet been received from module . A suspended module has registered with gateway and a key change command has been sent to module but a key change acknowledgement has not been received from module within an allowed time within a predetermined number of requests and the like. A disabled module was once registered with gateway but has been disabled by an administrator or other supervisory entity associated with gateway for example in response to an unpaid bill a report of a lost mobile device repeated entry of an incorrect password and the like.

When module is pending messages may be queued. When module is whitelisted messages may be queued. When module is current messages may be processed. When module is suspended messages may be queued. When module is disabled messages may be flagged as invalid and or deleted. Moreover module may be associated with any appropriate status and messages associated with module may be queued processed deleted and the like in any suitable manner to enable secure communications between module and gateway .

A message sender can run reports to determine which messages have been received and or read opened. Moreover server and or gateway may be configured to store various information related to a user for example a mirror or duplicate copy of one or more items of information stored on a users phone e.g. personal information credit card information identification information financial information health records and the like records of user messages sent and received and the like. Because server and or gateway may track monitor and or store each message in and out of server and gateway and whether the message was delivered and opened and the like such tracking of information can be used for compliancy reports e.g. under the Sarbanes Oxley Act or Federal Information Security Management Act audit trail evidence internal company control of information within company e.g. through information technology or in and out of company fraud risk assessment and detection or any other desired use. Since gateway tracks delivery of every message gateway can be configured to resubmit a message that has not been delivered e.g. due to error or any other reason . Gateway can be configured to set the duration between resubmission of a message to a predetermined period of time or based on the status of the message e.g. received opened and the like .

The present disclosure also provides various methods including for example methods of managing information for a number of users methods of authorizing actions methods of authenticating transactions methods of authenticating access and methods of alarming as to proximity to a location. illustrate examples of such methods and different methods in accordance various embodiments may include a selection of the operations or acts shown in described herein or both which may be performed or accomplished in the order presented or in many embodiments in a different order.

Turning now to this figure is a flowchart illustrating examples of various methods including for instance methods of managing information for a number of users using the Internet and mobile phones of the users. Many embodiments have some but not all of the acts shown in . In certain embodiments method includes receiving information from a user act . This may include in some embodiments at least for some of the users receiving a first set of personal information e.g. of the user from the user through at least one of the Internet and the mobile phone of the user.

For example user shown in may access website through computer and the Internet may open an account and may enter information select options etc. Information that may be entered or selected may include for example names of financial institutions account numbers names of airlines frequent flyer numbers names of insurance companies insurance policy numbers driver s license numbers passport information and the like. In some cases this personal information may be complete while in other cases the first set of personal information may include information to facilitate receipt or completion of information from one or more third parties e.g. to such as by identifying the third parties accounts and the like.

In certain embodiments method further includes downloading a mobile phone module act . In some embodiments for example for multiple users the user instructs the server e.g. or selects at a website e.g. to download a mobile phone module for example second software module or both shown in . In a particular embodiment for instance second software module is downloaded from first software module through the Internet and mobile phone network to mobile phone upon instruction by user . In other embodiments software module may be downloaded to mobile phone for example through the Internet and computer for instance through a USB port or a wireless network. In other embodiments software module or both may be loaded onto the phone at a store where the mobile phone was purchased or at an establishment of the entity that controls server that operates website or that provides a service or system of managing information for a number of users.

In various embodiments method further includes transmitting information to a different party act . In many such embodiments the user may e.g. first select or otherwise provide instructions or commands to send certain information to the third party evaluated in act . In particular in some embodiments e.g. in the order indicated or in another order at least for several of the users method may include upon instruction by the user e.g. evaluated in act transmitting e.g. in act at least a portion of the second set of personal information e.g. received in act selected in act transmitted in act or a combination thereof to a different party mobile phone. In some embodiments this may be accomplished through the mobile phone network e.g. for storage on the different party mobile phone for instance for access by the different party.

Referring to for an example user may provide an instruction or command e.g. in act for instance through user s mobile phone to send at least a portion of the information received e.g. in act to different user specifically via mobile phone . In different embodiments mobile phone may send the portion of the information to mobile phone for example through mobile phone network or mobile phone may instruct server or first software module to send the portion of the information to mobile phone for instance through the Internet mobile phone network or both as examples. In some embodiments delivery may be certified or delivery may be tracked and the sender may be notified when delivery has been accomplished or alternatively when delivery has been unsuccessful.

In some embodiments the first software module receives a command e.g. in act from the user e.g. for instance through mobile phone network and upon the receipt of the command e.g. in act transmits e.g. in act at least a portion of the nuggets e.g. or fraction of the personal information to the different party e.g. through the Internet . In some embodiments the system e.g. system may send the particular information fraction thereof or nuggets in different ways e.g. in act depending on whether the different party is a user of system e.g. has visited website and elected to have their personal information managed by system or has downloaded e.g. act or otherwise received or has installed the second software module on their mobile phone .

In some embodiments the user e.g. may select e.g. in act at least a portion of the personal information that is stored on the mobile phone e.g. select or enter e.g. in act an identifier of at least one of a different party e.g. and a different party mobile phone e.g. and elect e.g. in act to send e.g. in act the at least a portion of the personal information to the different party mobile phone e.g. . In many embodiments the first software module evaluates whether the different party mobile phone e.g. contains a copy of the second software module and if the different party mobile phone e.g. contains a copy of the second software module then the first software module sends e.g. in act the portion of the personal information to the copy of the second software module on the different party mobile phone e.g. for example through the mobile phone network e.g. by SMS . In some embodiments delivery may be certified or a notification message may be sent e.g. by SMS to user when delivery has been accomplished or alternatively after a certain amount of time or number of attempts when delivery has been unsuccessful.

Still referring to in many embodiments method further includes receiving a local signal act transmitting a local signal act or both. As used herein a local signal is a signal that is transmitted and received without going through the main transmitter that the mobile phone uses for placing telephone calls and without going through the main receiver that the mobile phone uses for receiving telephone calls. In addition a local signal does not go through the mobile phone network e.g. . For example a local signal from mobile phone may be transmitted by local transmitter or communications device and received i.e. directly by reader or communications device or vice versa. Examples of local signals include near field communication NFC signals and Bluetooth communication signals for example that use transmitters receivers or both e.g. device on the mobile phone that are separate from the transmitter and receiver that are used for telephone conversations.

In particular embodiments method further includes for each of multiple users using signal receiving hardware e.g. device shown in located on the user s mobile phone e.g. and using the second software module e.g. under the control of the user e.g. user receiving e.g. in act a local signal from a transmitter e.g. device within proximity to the mobile phone e.g. . Further some embodiments include for example for each of a number of the users using local signal transmitting hardware e.g. device located on the user s mobile phone e.g. and using the second software module e.g. under the control of the user e.g. transmitting a local signal e.g. in act that includes at least a portion of at least one of the first set of personal information e.g. received in act and the second set of personal information e.g. received in act to a reader e.g. device within proximity to the mobile phone e.g. . As used herein proximity in this context means within ten 10 feet and close proximity means within one 1 foot.

In certain embodiments method further includes organizing certain information act for example information that is handled by system . For example in many embodiments the second software module organizes act at the mobile phone e.g. the fraction e.g. nuggets or both of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act and transmitted in act which may include in various embodiments where applicable decrypting the information decompressing the information making the fraction of the second set of personal information accessible to the user act for instance on the user s mobile phone or a combination thereof. In some embodiments for each of multiple users the second software module e.g. organizes act the fraction of the second set of personal information based on topic and makes the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. nuggets or both accessible act to the user e.g. for instance based on the topic of the information e.g. in folder or folders .

In various embodiments some or all of the acts of method may be repeated. For example in some embodiments e.g. for each of some or all of the users method may involve repeating at least a number of times the receiving act for example of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction act and the transmitting of the fraction act . In many embodiments where applicable the encrypting act compressing act providing of an alarm act transmitting of information to a different party act receiving or transmitting or both of local signals acts or both the organizing of the information act the providing of the information to the user act or a combination thereof may be repeated as appropriate. Further in some embodiments the receiving of information from the user act may be repeated but may be repeated less often than certain other acts such as the receiving of information from third parties act for instance.

In many embodiments e.g. for each of multiple users the repeating includes e.g. as part of act replacing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information for instance based on the topic of the information. Further in various embodiments for each of more than one of the users the repeating includes e.g. as part of act synchronizing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone with corresponding personal information that was already stored on the mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information based on the topic of the information. As used herein synchronizing of information includes both replacing and appending the information while sorting or maintaining a sorted organizational structure based on topic. Topics may include for example travel information account information which may be sorted for different accounts bank card information loyalty information insurance information etc.

In various embodiments a user e.g. may be able to use a mobile phone e.g. to gain access to a physical space such as an elevator floor or area of a building parking garage etc. Access may be obtained in some embodiments for example by passing the phone e.g. by or over a reader e.g. communications device transmitting a local signal e.g. in act for example using near field communication NFC . In some embodiments for instance user selects the desired code or number on phone and then rubs phone against the reader or device or passes phone over or by device . In certain embodiments user may provide or select the code by name for example elevator which may be selected from a menu on mobile phone or input as a voice command for instance.

In some embodiments the mobile phone e.g. software module on phone may prevent the user e.g. or another user who might not be authorized from accessing module or module if the software e.g. or the phone e.g. has not been used for a specified period of time for example one minute two minutes and the like if the user has failed to provide the correct password for the software e.g. if a remote lock command has been received by phone and the like. Access to module and or module may afterward be restored for example via entry of the correct password. In other embodiments the software e.g. software module on phone may provide the GPS coordinates of the phone e.g. to module on server at regular intervals upon accessing or exiting the software e.g. upon accessing the phone upon sending a secure message upon turning the phone off upon turning the phone on upon running out of battery charge or a combination thereof as examples. In various embodiments GPS coordinates or other location data may be transmitted as a secure SMS message from module on phone to module on server . Moreover a delivery acknowledgement an open acknowledgement and or the like may also include GPS coordinates timestamp information cell tower triangulation information and or the like.

As described herein specific embodiments include among other things ways to communicate information to other electronic devices and in certain embodiments ways to affirmatively make selections. In some embodiments the electronic device or reader e.g. device may query the phone e.g. for the particular information that is needed a handshake routine may be followed or both. In some embodiments an affirmative act of assent may be required at least for certain functions for example to authorize a transaction or payment or to authorize access. Such an act of assent may include in some embodiments for example user entering a personal identification number PIN or a password into a graphical user interface or keyboard on the mobile phone providing a signature on a touch pad providing a biometric passing the phone e.g. by an NFC reader e.g. device or the like.

Further in some of these embodiments for yet another example the first software module e.g. module includes programming instructions to receive e.g. in act instructions from the user identifying at least one threshold for alarm e.g. used in act for at least a portion of the particular information e.g. nugget . In some of these embodiments at least one of the first software module e.g. and the second software module e.g. includes programming instructions to compare e.g. in act at least a portion of the particular information to the threshold. And in some such embodiments at least one of the first software module e.g. and the second software module e.g. includes programming instructions to provide an alarm e.g. in act to the user if the particular information passes the threshold e.g. in act .

Referring now to in a particular embodiment provided as an example system manages personal information and or enables secure communication for any number of users and includes a SECURE MOBILE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SMIM platform and Personal Data Providers . SMIM platform is an example of a technology platform for system which enables mobile phone users e.g. to to have access to certain personal information via their mobile phone e.g. to in some embodiments even when there is no signal or internet connection for the cell phone e.g. from mobile telephone network . In this embodiment SMIM platform includes one or more blocks of code configured to provide the framework and foundation of system and encompasses functionality from defining standards under which development takes place to defining security to communication between components and various core software applications.

In certain embodiments SMIM platform includes module e.g. MICRO AGENT module or MICRO AGENT TECHNOLOGY MAT module and module e.g. WEB SERVICES module or CELLTRUST WALLET WEB SERVICES module . In this example of an embodiment module runs on mobile phones and is an example of the second software module or a portion thereof and module is an example of first software module or a portion thereof. In this example module is a block of code or software that runs on server and that communicates with or exchanges data with module on the phones website and secure storage for example. Module may be a communication layer between module website and storage for instance. Module may provide or allow authentication communication protocol definition auditing of the integrity of data prevention of unauthorized access and so on and may allow access to website from the Internet . Module allows users and to create send receive and store secure SMS and MMS messages via phones and .

Module also in various embodiments allows third parties e.g. to or Personal Data Providers e.g. banks airlines merchants health care providers and the like to communicate with a customer for example to update their customer s accounts or personal information on storage website and or secure areas thereof to exchange electronic medical records in a HIPAA compliant manner to provide flight information and or booking and so forth . Module or second software module provides a user interface local storage synchronization and alerts components in this embodiment on one or more of phones to . Further in certain embodiments a user interface within mobile phone or second software module may gather information from the user e.g. and provide information back to the user. For example Personal Data Providers include financial institutions airlines retailers or merchants. Module allows Personal Data Providers to update customer accounts or personal information such as bank account information and statements flight information credit card information and charges.

In some embodiments local storage e.g. folder on mobile phone enables the application e.g. second software module to store information e.g. nuggets and of information on the phone e.g. which may provide for faster access reduce dependence on the network e.g. mobile phone network the Internet or both and may reduce the total cost of ownership by limiting the amount of data communication through mobile phone network that takes place e.g. at the expense of user . In some embodiments the data e.g. nuggets and on the phone e.g. is synchronized with data on server to ensure that the user e.g. has access to updated information both on their phone e.g. and on the web i.e. Internet which may be accessed at least by user through computer for instance .

In certain embodiments data is compressed encrypted or both for communication with the mobile phone or device e.g. between module and module or between the first software module and the second software module . In addition in some embodiments alerts may provide substantially real time notification of various events or activities that can be sent to a phone e.g. running module an example of module or a portion thereof . For example alerts may inform the user of an important or critical event such as a large withdrawal from their account or a flight cancellation flight changes gate changes or the like. In addition in some embodiments module provides a middle tier between users e.g. operating on their computers e.g. and module module or both. In some embodiments module may provide information e.g. from Personal Data Providers to module which may then be provided to module module e.g. on the mobile phones or both.

As used herein passive or passively means to not be powered by the battery or electrical system of the phone or electrically connected to the phone or another battery or electrical system . Further as used herein in this context the component of the phone excludes disposable packaging for the phone that may contain a bar code for product sales or tracking purposes for example . Further in some embodiments the component is comprises a back of the mobile phone a battery cover of the mobile phone a battery for the mobile phone or a case for the mobile phone as examples.

Further in some embodiments the mobile phone has a phone number and the passive code comprises the phone number of the mobile phone. Further in some embodiments for another example the passive code comprises a number that is unique to the component from all other components for mobile phones and all other mobile phones. In other embodiments the passive code may comprise or include the name of the user an indicia for the user an indicia for an account a portion thereof or a combination thereof as examples.

With further reference to website may include a main or home page or more than one such page to which new users and new third parties may be directed. New users may be directed to this page or pages or to website by search engines advertisers brokers agents or the like as examples. Users e.g. to may be assigned or asked to elect user names user ID s passwords and or the like which they may use to access secure areas or pages of website for example where their personal information may be entered displayed updated and or the like. In some embodiments security of such areas may be provided for example using novel systems and methods which may be described herein for instance. In some embodiments these secure areas may include information entered by third parties e.g. and . Further in some embodiments third parties e.g. to may have their own secure areas e.g. that are password protected or protected as described herein for example within website or on server or another server in which the third parties e.g. some or all of and may be able to enter view update or a combination thereof information for a number of users.

In some embodiments the first software module filters the personal information and selects nuggets of the personal information which the first software module sends to the mobile phone e.g. of the appropriate user e.g. . As used herein a nugget of information is a discrete piece of information that is a subset of the total information. Nuggets of information may be in digital form for example and may be in text form in the form of numbers or values or a combination thereof as examples. In some embodiments nuggets may include pictures text graphics or the like as further examples. These nuggets may be sent for example through mobile phone network for instance and may be sent as text MMS messages or SMS messages for instance. In some embodiments server may access mobile phone network through the Internet for example.

In various embodiments a second software module is operating e.g. independently on more than one of the mobile phones e.g. to although module is shown only on phone . Further in this embodiment the second software module is configured to receive the nuggets of the personal information of the user e.g. from the first software module through the Internet and through mobile phone network and to store the personal information on mobile phone so that the personal information may later be accessed by user for example even when mobile phone is not connected to mobile phone network . User may access the personal information for instance by viewing folder containing nuggets and which may be organized by subject matter for example. One such subject may be financial information for example which may include account balances transaction records and the like and another such subject in some embodiments may be travel information as another example which may include for example flight departure times and locations and the like. Other examples of subjects are described herein and include insurance information bank card information medical records appointments and the like.

In some such embodiments for multiple users e.g. to second software module is downloadable by the users from first software module to the mobile phones e.g. to for example through website through the Internet through mobile phone network or a combination thereof. Further in some embodiments for many of the users e.g. to first software module includes instructions to search some or all of the e mails received for or to the users e.g. to for keywords identifying numbers or both and to select the nuggets e.g. and of the personal information from the e mails using the keywords identifying numbers or both. For example software module may search e mails received for a specific user e.g. or for account numbers flight numbers names of third parties e.g. one or more of and etc. and may extract nuggets of information pertaining thereto. In some embodiments software module may search all e mails e.g. sent to particular users while in other embodiments only e mails from certain sources or certain e mail addresses may be searched.

In addition in some such embodiments for many or all of the users second software module contains instructions to allow the user e.g. to select at least a portion of the personal information that is stored on the mobile phone e.g. select nugget select or enter an identifier of at least one of a different party e.g. and a different party mobile phone e.g. and elect to send the personal information e.g. nugget to the different party mobile phone e.g. . Examples of such a different party are other users for instance for user users and may be different parties and their phones and may be different party mobile phones. Examples of such an identifier include the name of the different party the phone number for the different party a user identification number etc. In many embodiments for multiple users the first software module further contains instructions to evaluate whether the different party mobile phone has certain functionality or contains a copy of particular software such as second software module .

In some such embodiments if the different party mobile phone contains a copy of the second software module for example then the first software module may send the at least a portion of the personal information to the copy of the second software module on the different party mobile phone for instance through mobile phone network the Internet or both. On the other hand in some embodiments if the different party mobile phone does not contain a copy of the second software module for example or in some cases other software having adequate equivalent functionality then the first software module may send the at least a portion of the personal information to the different party mobile phone in another form for instance in the form of a standard e mail or text message.

In other embodiments software module may send the information directly to the different party rather than having the first software module e.g. module do it. In some embodiments for more than one of the users the first software module further contains instructions to receive a command from the user e.g. from user for instance through mobile phone network and upon the receipt of the command to transmit at least a portion of the nuggets of the personal information to a different party e.g. to user or or specifically in some embodiments to their phones or for example through the Internet .

In addition in some embodiments for many or all of the users first software module contains instructions to receive a command from the user e.g. one of users to for instance through mobile phone network to dispute a financial transaction for a particular account described in the nuggets of the personal information. In particular embodiments for example upon the receipt of the command first software module may contain instructions to transmit a dispute of the transaction to a manager of the particular account through a network such as Internet for example. The manager of the account may be third party for example and may be a bank or financial institution for instance. Such a dispute of the transaction may be transmitted to the third party e.g. in the form of an e mail or a text message for example sent via the Internet mobile phone network or both while in other embodiments a dispute of a transaction may be sent through a private or financial network as another example.

In various embodiments software module software module and or various other components may be configured to support a particular application and or user group for example mobile banking entry of health care information domain registration airline check in intra and inter government agency communication enterprise communication and the like.

Further in some embodiments some or all of the mobile phones e.g. to may be configured to transmit receive or both local signals. For example mobile phone includes local transmitter receiver antenna or a combination thereof local communication device which in this embodiment communicates with reader or local communication device . In different embodiments device may read signals send signals or both. Communications devices and may exchange signals in one or both directions through near field communications a personal area network Bluetooth bar codes WiFi or the like as examples.

Various embodiments also include second software module for running e.g. that is running on the user s mobile phone e.g. the appropriate one of phones to . Second software module may include programming instructions to store e.g. in folder the particular information on the user s mobile phone e.g. the appropriate one of phones to and provide access to the particular information by the user e.g. one of users to . Such a second software module may be recorded on a computer readable medium for instance such as a hard drive random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a disk a memory stick or the like as examples.

In some embodiments second software module may be stored or recorded on a server e.g. server for downloading onto the user s mobile phone e.g. the appropriate one or more of phones to . In a number of embodiments second software module may be recorded on memory within the user s mobile phone e.g. the appropriate one of phones to for example. Such a second software module may be for example part of software module shown in on mobile phone . The particular information may be include or be included within for example the nuggets or both for instance as described herein.

Further in some embodiments first software module or includes programming instructions to encrypt the particular information before sending the particular information to the user s mobile phone e.g. . In some embodiments second software module or includes programming instructions to decrypt the particular information. Even further in some embodiments first software module or includes programming instructions to compress the particular information before sending the particular information to the user s mobile phone e.g. . And in some embodiments second software module or includes programming instructions to decompress the particular information. Decryption and compression may be used together or separately in different embodiments.

Additionally in certain embodiments first software module or includes programming instructions to receive instructions from the user e.g. user identifying at least one threshold for alarm for at least a portion of the particular information. In particular such embodiments first software module or or second software module or or a combination thereof includes programming instructions to compare at least a portion of the particular information to the threshold. Furthermore in some embodiments first software module or or second software module or or a combination thereof includes programming instructions to provide an alarm to the user if the particular information passes the threshold. Such an alarm may be for example in a manner described herein such as an audible alarm a light or display a vibratory alarm or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments for example for one or more of multiple users e.g. users to the particular information includes financial account information which may include for instance amounts of withdrawals or debits from an account such as a financial or bank account. In certain embodiments the e.g. at least one threshold may be or include the amount of a withdrawal or debit for example and first software module or second software module or both may include programming instructions to provide an alarm to the user e.g. the appropriate one or more of users to if a withdrawal or a debit or both exceeds the threshold. In another example in some embodiments for each of a number of the users e.g. users to the particular information includes travel information which includes a departure time a departure location e.g. a departure gate or both. In some such embodiments first software module or second software module or both includes programming instructions to provide an alarm if there is a change in the departure time or the departure location or both as examples. In other embodiments alarms may be provided for other thresholds or other criteria.

Further in a number of embodiments for one or more of the users e.g. users to second software module contains programming instructions to allow the user e.g. user to select at least a portion of the particular information that is stored on the mobile phone e.g. select or enter a third party mobile phone number e.g. the phone number of user and elect to send at least a portion of the particular information to the third party mobile phone e.g. to mobile phone of user . In some embodiments at least for many users e.g. user first software module further contains instructions to evaluate whether the third party mobile phone e.g. mobile phone of user contains a copy of second software module module or both. In some such embodiments if the third party mobile phone e.g. mobile phone of user contains a copy of second software module for example then first software module may send the portion of the personal information to the copy of second software module on the third party mobile phone e.g. mobile phone of user for example through mobile phone network the Internet or both.

The invention also provides various methods of managing information for a number of users methods of authorizing actions methods of authenticating transactions methods of authenticating access and methods of alarming as to proximity to a location. illustrate examples of such methods and different methods in accordance with the invention may include a selection of the operations or acts shown in described herein or both which may be performed or accomplished in the order presented or in many embodiments in a different order.

Turning now to this figure is a flowchart illustrating an example method of managing information for a number of users using the Internet and mobile phones of the users. Some methods of the invention can include some of the acts shown in . In the particular embodiment illustrated method includes receiving information from a user act . This may include in some embodiments at least for each of a plurality of the users receiving a first set of personal information e.g. of the user from the user through at least one of the Internet and the mobile phone of the user.

For example user shown in may go to or access website through computer and the Internet may open an account and may enter information select options etc. Information that may be entered or selected may include for example names of financial institutions account numbers names of airlines frequent flyer numbers names of insurance companies insurance policy numbers driver s license numbers passport information etc. In some cases this personal information may be complete while in other cases the first set of personal information may include information to facilitate receipt or completion of information from one or more third parties e.g. to such as by identifying the third parties accounts etc.

Further in some embodiments the first set of personal information includes identification of information that is important to the user which may include a criteria for alarming. Such a criteria e.g. received in act may be entered by the user or selected from one or more menus for example. The criteria may include for instance an election to receive an alarm if a withdrawal debit or charge from a financial account exceeds a threshold that is entered or selected by the user. In some embodiments the criteria e.g. received in act may include a selection or indication of whether the user is to receive alarms throughout the day or only during certain hours of the day as another example which may vary depending upon the nature of the alarm or the particular threshold. Other examples of alarms include whether travel departure times departure locations or the like have changed whether bills are due whether insurance coverage has expired whether stock prices have changed whether weather conditions or forecasts or other environmental conditions meet a certain criteria whether a document or credential is about to expire whether someone has requested a particular action or access whether children have traveled into a region of concern etc.

In certain embodiments method further includes downloading a mobile phone module act . In some embodiments for example for at least a plurality of users the user instructs the server e.g. or selects at a website e.g. to download a mobile phone module for example second software module shown in . In a particular embodiment for instance second software module is downloaded from first software module through the Internet and mobile phone network to mobile phone upon instruction by user . In other embodiments software module may be downloaded to mobile phone for example through the Internet and computer for instance through a USB port or a wireless network. In other embodiments software module may be loaded onto the phone at a store where the mobile phone was purchased or at an establishment of the entity that controls server that operates website or that provides a service or system of managing information for a number of users.

In a number of embodiments and methods of the invention and in the particular one shown in method includes receiving information from third parties act . In some embodiments for example for each of a plurality of the users this act includes receiving a second set of personal information of each user from at least one third party for instance through a network e.g. the Internet . In many embodiments this act may be performed or accomplished for a particular user after receiving personal information act from that particular user which may identify the third party provide information with which the third party can identify the particular user identify particular information that the particular user authorizes or requests be provided from the third party identify bank accounts etc.

In many embodiments the user may directly request a third party to send the information. For example the user may visit a third party website e.g. via the Internet login to the third party website and provide information to the third party through the website to identify the user in system which would also indicate the user s willingness for the third party to send the information. In various embodiments the information received from the third parties e.g. in act may include one or more account balances one or more descriptions of account transactions e.g. an amount of a withdrawal which may include who the withdrawal is to flight information changes in flight information insurance information loyalty information passwords pass codes calendar entries navigational information account numbers bank card numbers location information concerning regions of concern etc.

In the embodiment illustrated method further includes selecting a fraction of the information act . In some embodiments a fraction of the information received from the third parties e.g. in act may be selected for example by the first software module . As used herein selecting a fraction of certain information means selecting less than all of that information. For example particular subsets or nuggets of the information may be selected. In some embodiments the fraction of the information may be selected e.g. in act using a criteria that has been predefined e.g. in module . In some embodiments the fraction of the information may be selected e.g. in act using the criteria e.g. received in act .

In various embodiments in act particular information is selected that is considered to be of particular importance or concern to the user. Examples include changes in departure time status or departure location for a flight that the user is booked on withdrawals from an account that exceed a threshold account balances etc. In particular embodiments for each of a plurality of the users for instance act may include selecting a fraction of the second set of personal information described herein while in various embodiments act may include selecting a fraction of the first set of personal information instead or in addition.

Various embodiments and methods of the invention include encrypting the fraction of the information act . The information that is encrypted may be the fraction of the information that is selected in act for example. In some embodiments a fraction of the second set of personal information in encrypted e.g. in act for example. Information may be encrypted e.g. in act for example to maintain its confidentiality. Information may be encrypted e.g. in act for example using PGP pretty good privacy public key cryptography asymmetric key encryption or the like as examples.

Further various embodiments of the invention include compressing the fraction of the information act . The information that is compressed may be the fraction of the information that is selected in act for example. In some embodiments a fraction of the second set of personal information in compressed e.g. in act for instance. Information may be compressed e.g. in act for example to make it easier quicker or less expensive to transmit store or both.

In different embodiments information may be compressed e.g. in act encrypted e.g. in act or both in either order. In some embodiments method further includes for each of a plurality of the users before the transmitting of the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. act for example to the user s mobile phone at least one of encrypting e.g. act the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act and compressing act the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act . In certain embodiments the encrypting e.g. act and the compressing act for example of the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act may be repeated for instance along with other acts as described herein.

In the embodiment illustrated method also includes as mentioned transmitting information act . Such information may include for example the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act . In various embodiments the receiving act for example of the first set of personal information the receiving act for example of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction act and the transmitting of the fraction act are all performed by the first software module residing on server connected to the Internet . And in some embodiments the first software module further forms the at least one Internet website . In some embodiments methods include for example for each of a plurality of the users transmitting the fraction e.g. selected in act of the second set of personal information to the user s mobile phone for example through the mobile phone network e.g. network shown in for storage on the user s mobile phone for instance using second software module e.g. residing on the phone .

In this embodiment method further includes evaluating whether information satisfies a criteria act . Such a criteria may be as described herein or provided or selected by the user e.g. in act . If the information e.g. the fraction of the information selected in act transmitted in act or both satisfies the criteria e.g. for alarming for instance as determined in act then an alarm may be provided act . In some embodiments the method includes for each of a plurality of the users for example using the second software module providing an alarm to the user act if at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information satisfies the criteria. Such an alarm e.g. of act may be audible visual or for example in the form of a vibration. In some embodiments a sound or vibration may be produced by the mobile phone of the user e.g. in act and the reason for the alarm may be displayed on the screen of the phone for instance. In some embodiments the default ring tone of the phone or an existing phone ring setting may be used for the alarm e.g. in act as examples.

In some embodiments the user may be prompted to acknowledge the alarm or the description of the reason for the alarm or may be asked to make a response or take an affirmative action to provide consent for example for the reason for the alarm or an event described in the description. For example if the reason for the alarm is that a withdrawal has been made from the user s bank account the mobile phone may ring or vibrate. The user may then open the phone or press a button on the phone to acknowledge the alarm. The phone may then display the amount of the withdrawal for example along with a description of the account and of the transaction. In some embodiments the user may be asked to make a selection to provide consent to the withdrawal for instance. In another scenario the phone may ring to provide an alarm that the user s flight has been delayed as another example. The user may open the phone to acknowledge the alarm and a brief description of the delay and new estimated departure time may be provided on the screen of the mobile phone for instance. Other examples are described herein.

In some such methods for example for each of a plurality of the users the first set of personal information e.g. received in act includes an identification of at least one financial account the second set of personal information e.g. received in act includes an identification of deposits into the account withdrawals from the account and a balance of the account and the providing of an alarm act includes at least one of alarming if a withdrawal exceeds a first threshold identified within the criteria and alarming if the balance of the account drops below a second threshold identified within the criteria. As used herein such a withdrawal may be a debit from or a charge to the account as examples.

As another example in some methods for each of a plurality of the users the first set of personal information e.g. received in act includes at least one of travel information e.g. frequent flyer information such as a frequent flyer identification number and an identification of at least one of a common carrier and a travel agent. Further in some embodiments the second set of personal information e.g. received in act includes travel itinerary which may include identification of a departure time and a departure location for example. And the providing of an alarm act may include alarming if there is a change in at least one of the departure time and the departure location in some embodiments. In many embodiments if the information e.g. the fraction of the information selected in act transmitted in act or both does not satisfy the criteria e.g. for alarming for instance as determined in act then an alarm may not be provided and act may be skipped at least for that particular iteration of method .

In various embodiments method further includes transmitting information to a different party act . In many such embodiments the user may e.g. first select or otherwise provide instructions or commands to send certain information to the third party evaluated in act . In particular in some embodiments e.g. in the order indicated or in another order for at least a plurality of the users method may include upon instruction by the user e.g. evaluated in act transmitting e.g. in act at least a portion of the second set of personal information e.g. received in act selected in act transmitted in act or a combination thereof to a different party mobile phone. In some embodiments this may be accomplished through the mobile phone network e.g. for storage on the different party mobile phone for instance for access by the different party.

Referring to for an example user may provide an instruction or command e.g. in act for instance through user s mobile phone to send at least a portion of the information received e.g. in act to different user specifically via mobile phone . In different embodiments mobile phone may send the portion of the information to mobile phone for example through mobile phone network or mobile phone may instruct server or first software module to send the portion of the information to mobile phone for instance through the Internet mobile phone network or both as examples. In some embodiments delivery may be certified or delivery may be tracked and the sender may be notified when delivery has been accomplished or alternatively when delivery has been unsuccessful.

In some embodiments the first software module receives a command e.g. in act from the user e.g. for instance through mobile phone network and upon the receipt of the command e.g. in act transmits e.g. in act at least a portion of the nuggets e.g. or fraction of the personal information to the different party e.g. through the Internet . In some embodiments the system e.g. system may send the particular information fraction thereof or nuggets in different ways e.g. in act depending on whether the different party is a user of system e.g. has visited website and elected to have their personal information managed by system or has downloaded e.g. act or otherwise received or has installed the second software module on their mobile phone .

In some embodiments the user e.g. may select e.g. in act at least a portion of the personal information that is stored on the mobile phone e.g. select or enter e.g. in act an identifier of at least one of a different party e.g. and a different party mobile phone e.g. and elect e.g. in act to send e.g. in act the at least a portion of the personal information to the different party mobile phone e.g. . In many embodiments the first software module evaluates whether the different party mobile phone e.g. contains a copy of the second software module and if the different party mobile phone e.g. contains a copy of the second software module then the first software module sends e.g. in act the portion of the personal information to the copy of the second software module on the different party mobile phone e.g. for example through the mobile phone network e.g. by SMS . In some embodiments delivery may be certified or a notification message may be sent e.g. by SMS to user when delivery has been accomplished or alternatively after a certain amount of time or number of attempts when delivery has been unsuccessful.

In particular embodiments for example the portion of the second set of personal information e.g. transmitted in act includes a travel itinerary for instance. Thus a user is able to conveniently send their travel itinerary to another person. In in many embodiments if the user does not instruct particular information to be sent to a different party then the act of transmitting information to a different party act is omitted at least for that iteration of method .

Still referring to in many embodiments of the invention and in the embodiment illustrated method further includes receiving a local signal act transmitting a local signal act or both. As used herein a local signal is a signal that is transmitted and received without going through the main transmitter that the mobile phone uses for placing telephone calls and without going through the main receiver that the mobile phone uses for receiving telephone calls. Similarly a local signal does not go through the mobile phone network e.g. . For example a local signal from mobile phone may be transmitted by local transmitter or communications device and received i.e. directly by reader or communications device or vice versa. Examples of local signals include near field communication NFC signals and Bluetooth communication signals for example that use transmitters receivers or both e.g. device on the mobile phone that are separate from the transmitter and receiver that are used for telephone conversations.

In particular embodiments method further includes for each of a plurality of the users using signal receiving hardware e.g. device shown in located on the user s mobile phone e.g. and using the second software module e.g. under the control of the user e.g. user receiving e.g. in act a local signal from a transmitter e.g. device within proximity to the mobile phone e.g. . Further some embodiments of the invention include for example for each of a plurality of the users using local signal transmitting hardware e.g. device located on the user s mobile phone e.g. and using the second software module e.g. under the control of the user e.g. transmitting a local signal e.g. in act that includes at least a portion of at least one of the first set of personal information e.g. received in act and the second set of personal information e.g. received in act to a reader e.g. device within proximity to the mobile phone e.g. . As used herein proximity in this context means within ten 10 feet and close proximity means within one 1 foot.

In the embodiment illustrated method further includes organizing certain information act for example information that is handled by system . For example in many embodiments of the invention the second software module organizes act at the mobile phone e.g. the fraction e.g. nuggets or both of the second set of personal information e.g. selected in act and transmitted in act which may include in various embodiments where applicable decrypting the information decompressing the information making the fraction of the second set of personal information accessible to the user act for instance on the user s mobile phone or a combination thereof. In some embodiments for each of a plurality of the users the second software module e.g. organizes act the fraction of the second set of personal information based on topic and makes the fraction of the second set of personal information e.g. nuggets or both accessible act to the user e.g. for instance based on the topic of the information e.g. in folder or folders .

In various embodiments of the invention some or all of the acts of method may be repeated. For example in some embodiments e.g. for each of a plurality of the users method may involve repeating at least a plurality of times the receiving act for example of the second set of personal information the selecting of the fraction act and the transmitting of the fraction act . In many embodiments where applicable the encrypting act compressing act providing of an alarm act transmitting of information to a different party act receiving or transmitting or both of local signals acts or both the organizing of the information act the providing of the information to the user act or a combination thereof may be repeated as appropriate. Further in some embodiments the receiving of information from the user act may be repeated but may be repeated less often than certain other acts such as the receiving of information from third parties act for instance.

In many embodiments e.g. for each of a plurality of the users the repeating includes e.g. as part of act replacing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information for instance based on the topic of the information. Further in various embodiments for each of a plurality of the users the repeating includes e.g. as part of act synchronizing at least a portion of the fraction of the second set of personal information that is stored on the user s mobile phone with corresponding personal information that was already stored on the mobile phone while maintaining the organization of the information based on the topic of the information. As used herein synchronizing of information includes both replacing and appending the information while sorting or maintaining a sorted organizational structure based on topic. Topics may include for example travel information account information which may be sorted for different accounts bank card information loyalty information insurance information etc.

In some embodiments the mobile phone e.g. software module on phone may lock the user e.g. or another user who might not be authorized from accessing information if the software e.g. or the phone e.g. has not been used for a specified period of time or if the user has repeatedly failed to provide the correct password for the software e.g. . In other embodiments the software e.g. software module on phone may provide the GPS coordinates of the phone e.g. to module on server at regular intervals upon accessing or exiting the software e.g. upon accessing the phone e.g. upon turning the phone off upon turning the phone e.g. on upon running out of battery or a combination thereof as examples.

Further in some of these embodiments for yet another example the first software module e.g. module includes programming instructions to receive e.g. in act instructions from the user identifying at least one threshold for alarm e.g. used in act for at least a portion of the particular information e.g. nugget . In some of these embodiments at least one of the first software module e.g. and the second software module e.g. includes programming instructions to compare e.g. in act at least a portion of the particular information to the threshold. And in some such embodiments at least one of the first software module e.g. and the second software module e.g. includes programming instructions to provide an alarm e.g. in act to the user if the particular information passes the threshold e.g. in act .

In a number of embodiments such examples of method also include for each of a plurality of the users e.g. users to shown in sending e.g. in act the particular information to the user s mobile phone e.g. phone of user through a mobile phone network e.g. for storage on the user s mobile phone e.g. and access by the user e.g. . In some embodiments the particular information that is sent may be contain or be similar to the nuggets e.g. and and may be stored for example within folder by module for example . In some embodiments software module on server may be a sorting software module and may perform or initiate the acts of receiving the e mails e.g. act searching for keywords or identifying numbers or both and extracting the particular information e.g. in act and in some embodiments transmitting or sending e.g. act the particular information. In some embodiments the particular information may be the same or similar to the fraction of the information described herein for example with reference to acts to .

In many embodiments method also includes acts of repeating for example multiple times the searching e.g. part of act the extracting e.g. part of act and the sending e.g. act . Various embodiments of such methods may be performed in various orders and may include additional acts. For example in some embodiments method may include e.g. for each of a plurality of the users to after the extracting of the particular information e.g. in act and before the sending of the particular information e.g. in act for example to the user s mobile phone e.g. to acts of encrypting the particular information act compressing the particular information act or both.

In particular embodiments e.g. for each of a plurality of the users method may include acts of receiving instructions e.g. in act from the user e.g. one of users to and identifying at least one criteria or threshold for alarm for at least a portion of the particular information. In some such embodiments after the extracting of the particular information e.g. act method may include comparing e.g. in act at least a portion of the particular information to the criteria or threshold for alarm and providing an alarm e.g. in act to the user e.g. one of users to if the particular information satisfies the criteria or passes the threshold as examples.

Still other embodiments include e.g. for at least a plurality of the users to upon instruction by the user e.g. user transmitting e.g. act at least a portion of the particular information to a third party e.g. mobile phone e.g. for instance through mobile phone network for storage on the third party mobile phone e.g. for access by the third party e.g. user . In some such embodiments the at least a portion of the particular information e.g. transmitted in act does not include a complete e mail e.g. an e mail received by user or by module and forwarded to user . As an example in some embodiments the at least a portion of the particular information includes a travel itinerary e.g. of user . Thus user can easily send his travel itinerary or other of the particular information to another person to facilitate such communication.

Turning now to this flowchart illustrates among other things an example method of authorizing an action and authenticating access. Most of the various acts of the method may be performed in an automated process for instance by server module or both shown in . In various embodiments method may be performed by a company or business for instance as a service for other companies or businesses or the like.

In method includes receiving act for example from a person having authority to authorize the action an identification of a first phone number for obtaining authorization for the action. Such a person having authority to authorize the action may be for example one of users to shown in . In some embodiments the person having authority to authorize the action may provide the phone number e.g. received in act through their computer or mobile phone for example. For instance if user is the person having authority to authorize the action user may provide the phone number e.g. received in act of phone via phone or via computer and website .

In some embodiments the person having authority to authorize the action may enter or key in the phone number directly while in other embodiments the person e.g. user may enter or select a name for example or other identifier or indicia which may be used e.g. in act for instance by server or module to look up the appropriate phone number e.g. of phone . In some embodiments the person having authority to authorize the action may select the phone number for example from a menu or the number may be read automatically from the person s phone or from a caller ID feature or service when the phone is used. As used herein all such are examples of acts e.g. of receiving from a person having authority to authorize the action an identification of a first phone number for obtaining authorization for the action.

Still referring to method also includes an act of receiving for instance from a person seeking the action a request for authorization of the action. In different embodiments acts and may occur in either order including for example the order shown in . In different embodiments or different situations the person seeking the action e.g. who requests authorization in act and the person having authority to authorize the action e.g. who provides the number in act may be the same person or may be different people e.g. of users to .

After the receiving of the identification of the first phone number e.g. in act and after the receiving of the request for authorization e.g. act in the embodiment illustrated method also includes an act of sending a first message for example through a mobile phone network e.g. shown in to a first mobile phone for instance having the first phone number. In such embodiments the first message e.g. of act may include a description of the action for which authorization is requested for example. In some embodiments the first phone message is sent e.g. in act automatically meaning herein that other than making the request for authorization e.g. received in act and providing the number and any criteria e.g. received in one or both of acts and no human interaction is involved i.e. between acts and .

In addition in the embodiment illustrated after the sending of the first message e.g. after act method includes an act of receiving for example from the first mobile phone i.e. having the first phone number a second message which may authorize the action. In various embodiments the second message e.g. received in act may be the result of the person who controls the phone taking an affirmative action to indicate authorization of the action act . Act may be performed by one of users to shown in for example.

In some embodiments the first message e.g. of act includes at least one menu and at least one prompt to authorize the action by making a selection from the menu. The person who controls the phone may take an affirmative action to indicate authorization of the action act by making a selection from the menu for example. In some embodiments authorization is indicated act and the second message authorizing the action is sent e.g. which is received in act by pressing for example a single button on the mobile phone after the first message e.g. sent in act is received by the mobile phone. As used herein pressing a single button does not include such actions such as opening a flip phone scrolling to view a message or pressing send . In other words when determining how many buttons have been pressed opening a flip phone scrolling to view a message or pressing send are not counted.

In some embodiments the first message e.g. sent in act the second message e.g. received in act or both are SMS messages. One or both e.g. of the first and second messages sent in act and received in act respectively may be transmitted e.g. sent and received through the mobile phone network e.g. shown in . Further in some embodiments the first message e.g. sent in act the second message e.g. received in act or both are voice message as further examples which may be computer generated interpreted using voice recognition software or both as examples. In some embodiments the first message e.g. sent in act may be a voice message while the second message e.g. received in act is an SMS message. Other embodiments may have other combinations.

In the embodiment illustrated method also includes an act of evaluating whether the second message e.g. received in act authorizes the action. If so then in act the action may be allowed facilitated or performed as examples. Some embodiments include an act of allowing the action act only if the second message is received e.g. in act and the second message authorizes the action e.g. as determined in act . Some embodiments further include repeating the receiving of the request for authorization of the action e.g. act the sending of the first message e.g. act and the receiving of the second message e.g. act . These acts may be repeated for example for requests for different actions requests for the same action for different people requests for the same action or same person at different times etc.

Further still some of these embodiments further include an act of encrypting the first message for example before the sending of the first message e.g. act for instance to the first mobile phone. Some embodiments also or instead include an act of decrypting the second message for example after the receiving of the second message e.g. act for instance from the first mobile phone. In such embodiments the first mobile phone may decrypt the first message and encrypt the second message as examples. In some embodiments compression and decompression may also or instead be utilized.

In some embodiments prior to the receiving of the request for authorization of the action e.g. act the first phone number is received e.g. in act through an Internet website e.g. website via the Internet shown in the mobile phone network e.g. or both. Some embodiments further include an act of receiving for instance through an Internet website e.g. website via the Internet or a mobile phone network e.g. or both for example from each of at least a plurality of persons having authority to authorize the action an indication of a criteria for obtaining authorization for the action for instance for that particular person. Such a criteria may be typed in or entered verbally by the person or may be selected by the person from one or more menus for example. In some embodiments act may be similar to act shown in and described herein. Further in some embodiments act may be included within act or vice versa or acts and may be performed in another order.

As an example in some embodiments of method act includes receiving for instance from the person having authority to authorize the action through at least one of the Internet website e.g. website via the Internet shown in and the mobile phone network e.g. an identification of time limits for sending the first message e.g. in act . In many such embodiments the sending of the first message e.g. act may be performed only in accordance with the time limits. For example in some embodiments the person may not want to be prompted for certain kinds of authorization during certain nighttime hours and may enter a criteria or make selections accordingly.

In a number of embodiments the person who controls the phone e.g. who is in a position to indicate authorization in act is in fact or is intended to be the person having authority to authorize the action e.g. from whom the number was received in act criteria was received in act or both . In other embodiments the person who controls the phone is in fact or is intended to be a person who is authorized by the person having authority to authorize the action e.g. from whom the number was received in act criteria was received in act or both . Further some embodiments provide certain assurances that the person who controls the phone is the correct person.

For example in some embodiments the second message e.g. received in act includes a password or an authorization code which has been memorized by the person having authority to authorize the action and keyed into the first mobile phone e.g. in act after receiving the first message e.g. sent in act and before sending the second message e.g. received in act . As another example certain embodiments include for example in the first message e.g. in act an act of asking a personal question about the person having authority to authorize the action who is expected to be in control of the mobile phone. Such embodiments may also include in the second message e.g. in act an act of receiving a present answer to the personal question. Such embodiments may further include e.g. in act an act of comparing the present answer to a previous answer to the personal question provided e.g. in act for instance by the person having authority to authorize the action.

In a number of embodiments the first message e.g. sent in act identifies the person seeking the action. And in some embodiments the first message e.g. sent in act also or instead identifies the action being requested e.g. in act . Such information may be valuable for example in embodiments or situations where the person requesting the authorization e.g. in act is different than the person who has the authority to authorize the action e.g. that provided the number received in act to which the first message was sent in act who indicates the authorization in act etc. . In some embodiments on the other hand the first mobile phone is controlled by the person seeking the action e.g. who requests the authorization received in act and in some embodiments the person seeking the action e.g. who requests the authorization received in act is the same person having authority to authorize the action e.g. in act act or both .

Moreover some embodiments further include an act e.g. within act of receiving from the person having authority to authorize the action for instance through the Internet website e.g. website via the Internet shown in or the mobile phone network e.g. or both an identification of a second phone number for advising a third person of the action e.g. the action for which a request is received in act which is allowed in act or both . Some such embodiments include an act e.g. for example after receiving the request for authorization e.g. in act of automatically sending the first message the second message a third message or a combination thereof e.g. in act to the second phone number. The act of notifying the third parson may include for example sending a description of the action for which authorization is requested identifying the person requesting the action e.g. in act or both as examples.

In the embodiment illustrated method further includes act of tracking the authorization granted for the action over time which may include reporting results of the tracking. For example a report may be issued which may indicate which authorizations were requested e.g. in act when authorizations were requested who requested such authorizations whether and when authorizations were granted e.g. in act and whether or when actions were allowed e.g. in act . In some embodiments such a report or data may be provided e.g. in act to or through the e.g. first or second mobile phone for example as SMS messages or nuggets of information described herein as examples.

In some embodiments information may be provided via a local signal received in act . Act may be similar to act shown in and described herein with reference thereto. A local signal may be received e.g. in act for example via local communications devices and shown in and described herein with reference thereto wherein device is receiving and device is transmitting. A local signal may be received e.g. in act via NFC for instance and may be received e.g. in act when the mobile phone is passed by a reader e.g. device .

In different embodiments different types of actions are requested e.g. in act authorized e.g. in act and allowed e.g. in act . Some embodiments are limited to particular types of actions. For example some actions involve providing access physical or otherwise and some embodiments involve transfer of funds or money from one entity or account to another for instance. As a specific example in some embodiments the action is granting of computer access to electronically stored information and the person seeking the action e.g. requesting the authorization in act is seeking the computer access to the electronically stored information. Embodiments of method may be used to provide computer access for example instead of a password if a password has been forgotten or in addition to a password for example to provide an added level of security in case an unauthorized user has obtained the password. In some such embodiments the first message e.g. of act may include a description of the computer access or electronically stored information for which authorization is requested.

In another example the action is granting of physical access to a controlled space and the person seeking the action e.g. requesting the authorization in act is seeking the physical access to the controlled space. Physical access may be controlled for example to a building part of a building a floor of a building a room an enclosure a compound a storage area a parking area a road furniture such as a desk or filing cabinet a safe etc. In such embodiments physical access may be allowed e.g. in act for example by electronically unlocking or opening a door gate or compartment by allowing an elevator to reach a particular floor etc. In such embodiments the first message e.g. of act may include a description of the room floor building space etc. for which authorization for access is requested.

In another specific example in particular embodiments the action e.g. requested in act authorized in act allowed in act or a combination thereof is or includes a financial transaction the first message e.g. sent in act includes an amount of the transaction and the second message e.g. received in act includes an authorization e.g. from act of the transaction. Some such embodiments include e.g. in act receiving from the person having authority to authorize the action for example through an Internet website e.g. website via the Internet shown in or a mobile phone network e.g. or both an identification of a threshold monetary value of transactions. In some such embodiments the first message is sent e.g. act for transactions exceeding the threshold and transactions below the threshold are approved or authorized without sending the first message e.g. without acts through .

Further in some embodiments the transaction is or includes a withdrawal or a debit from a bank account and the person having authority to authorize the action is an authorized user of the account. Thus in some embodiments a user e.g. to shown in can elect e.g. in selecting or indicating the criteria that is received in act to be notified via their phone e.g. to of large withdrawals or debits e.g. in act but not to be bothered e.g. by a first message sent in act with smaller e.g. routine withdrawals or debits. Furthermore in a number of embodiments the user must authorize e.g. in act the larger transactions thus protecting the user the bank or other financial institution or both from losses resulting from unauthorized withdrawals or debits.

Turning now to this flowchart illustrates an example method of providing positional awareness for instance of a particular individual using mobile phones. In the embodiment illustrated method includes acts of obtaining act and storing act location information. Particular embodiments include at least the act of obtaining act or storing act or both at least one location coordinate defining at least one region of concern for example. Such location coordinates may be or include global positioning system GPS coordinates for example latitude and longitude grid coordinates elevation coordinates or distances from one or more known points Cartesian coordinates polar coordinates or the like as examples.

A region of concern may be defined by one such coordinate and a distance therefrom by more than one coordinate and a distance therefrom e.g. by two coordinates defining a line segment and a distance therefrom or by three four or more coordinates which may define a perimeter or parcel of land e.g. four coordinates defining corners of squares or rectangles as examples. In other embodiments street addresses may be used. Location information or coordinates defining regions of concern may be obtained for example from a third party e.g. to shown in from an Internet website through Internet from a user e.g. to or the like. In some embodiments there may be a number of locations regions of concern coordinates or the like which may correspond to different regions of concern which may be of concern for different reasons in certain embodiments.

In the embodiment illustrated method also includes monitoring the location of a first mobile phone act which may be possessed by a particular individual for example. Such monitoring may be for example continuous at regular intervals of time during certain times of the day or the like which may be selectable by the user in some embodiments. In some embodiments the frequency of monitoring may be increased if the particular individual is near a region of concern. In the embodiment illustrated method also includes evaluating whether the first phone is near or within a region act for example of concern and providing an alarm act for example through a second mobile phone when the first mobile phone passes into a region of concern or within a predetermined distance of a region of concern. Such a predetermined distance may be for example 25 feet 50 feet 75 feet 100 feet 200 feet 300 feet 500 feet or the like and may be user selectable in some embodiments. In addition or instead of alarming at the second phone in some embodiments an alarm may be provided e.g. in act at the first mobile phone which may be the same or a different alarm in different embodiments.

An alarm may be provided e.g. in act in a manner similar to other alarms described herein for example in act shown in or may be similar to the notification of the third person act or the first message e.g. sent in act shown in or a combination thereof. An alarm e.g. provided in act may include a typical ringing of the phone making a particular ring tone a text or SMS message a vibration a synthetic voice message one or more lights or a combination thereof as examples. The nature of the alarm e.g. provided in act may be selectable by the user in many embodiments for example in an act similar to act act or both. In some embodiments the alarm e.g. provided in act may identify the first phone the person to which the first phone is assigned the phone number of the first phone a name of the region of concern the reason why the region is of concern how far away from the region of concern the first phone is located uncertainty associated with such information etc.

In some such embodiments for example the location coordinate e.g. obtained in act stored in act or both is for a reported residence of a registered sex offender. In some such embodiments the first phone e.g. of which the location is monitored in act may be assigned to or used by a child and the second phone e.g. which receives the alarm in act may be assigned to a parent or guardian of the child. Thus the parent or guardian may be alerted e.g. automatically if the child enters or approaches the residence of a registered sex offender. In some embodiments the alarm e.g. provided in act may indicate that the region of concern is the residence of a registered sex offender in some embodiments including details of the offender crimes that he has been convicted or accused of a description of him a picture of him etc.

In some embodiments registered residences of a number of registered sex offenders may be obtained e.g. in act for example through the Internet for instance from one or more governmental websites which may be converted into coordinates for example demarking the property boundary the center of the property or the like. Location information may be stored e.g. in act for instance on server in storage by software module or the like which may be temporary storage for example for the area in which the first mobile phone is located. Other information included in alarms e.g. provided in act may be obtained from the website s as well in act or both.

In other embodiments regions of concern may be for other threats such as traffic hazards pollution or toxic waste sites areas of high radioactivity industrial areas neighborhoods with high crime rates gang controlled areas quarantine areas areas with insect infestations high drug use or dealing areas bars adult establishments houses of prostitution gambling establishments construction areas areas of severe weather areas of fighting in theater of war forbidden areas foreign territory private land areas below high tide areas where rip tides occur areas of shallow water coastlines or other maritime navigational hazards etc. Besides protecting children embodiments may notify e.g. in act protect or both individuals with substance abuse alcohol or gambling problems police officers fire fighters probation officers parole officers census workers soldiers delivery personnel salesmen missionaries sailors etc. In some embodiments the alarm e.g. provided in act may be provided to the first phone in addition to or instead of the second phone.

In some embodiments special software may be provided on one or more mobile phones to accomplish certain acts of the method e.g. method . For instance a number of embodiments of method further include for example the acts of providing a first mobile phone software module for installation on the first mobile phone act providing a second mobile phone software module for installation on the second mobile phone act or both. In some such embodiments the first mobile phone software module e.g. provided in act includes programming instructions for the monitoring e.g. in act of the location of the first mobile phone for instance possessed by the particular individual. And in some embodiments the second mobile phone software module e.g. provided in act includes programming instructions for the providing of the alarm e.g. in act for example through the second mobile phone when the first mobile phone passes into a region of concern or within the predetermined distance of a region of concern. In some embodiments the first mobile phone software module e.g. provided in act the second mobile phone software module e.g. provided in act or both may be similar at least in some respects or part of the second software module described herein for example.

Particular embodiments of such methods e.g. method further include an act of obtaining or providing a third software module act for example installed on at least one Internet server e.g. and forming at least one Internet website e.g. . In some embodiments the third software module e.g. provided in act may be similar at least in some respects or part of the first software module described herein for example. In some of these embodiments at least a plurality of users e.g. users to visit the website e.g. through the Internet and elect to be provided the alarm e.g. in act through their mobile phone for example through the second mobile phone. In various embodiments information criteria selections etc. may be received from the users or potential users for example in acts similar to acts or both shown in and described herein with reference thereto.

In a number of such embodiments the third software module e.g. obtained or provided in act further contains instructions to download e.g. in act for instance through mobile phone network for example to the first mobile phone the first mobile phone software module. In many such embodiments the first mobile phone software module e.g. provided or downloaded in act the third software module e.g. obtained or provided in act or both includes programming instructions for the monitoring e.g. in act of the location of the first mobile phone for instance possessed by the particular individual. Further in some such embodiments the third software module e.g. obtained or provided in act further contains instructions to download e.g. in act for instance through mobile phone network for example to the second mobile phone the second mobile phone software module.

In many such embodiments the second mobile phone software module e.g. provided or downloaded in act includes programming instructions for the providing of the alarm e.g. in act for instance through the second mobile phone when the first mobile phone passes into the region of concern or within the predetermined distance of the region of concern. And in particular embodiments the first mobile phone software module e.g. provided or downloaded in act also or instead includes programming instructions for the providing of the alarm e.g. in act or instance through the first mobile phone when the first mobile phone passes into the region of concern or within the predetermined distance of the region of concern.

Moreover in many embodiments at least a plurality of the users e.g. to enter e.g. in act for example through the Internet website e.g. at least one location coordinate defining at least one region of concern. Thus in different embodiments some or all of the regions of concern may be of specific concern to the particular user. On the other hand in some embodiments the third software module e.g. obtained or provided in act further contains instructions to obtain from a third party website e.g. from one or more of third parties to data with which to determine at least one location coordinate defining at least one region of concern. An example of such data includes street addresses which may be used to determine longitude and latitude or GPS coordinates for example. In some such embodiments for example the third party website contains reported residence addresses or locations for a plurality of registered sex offenders there are at least a plurality of regions of concern e.g. monitored in act and at least a plurality of the regions of concern surround at least one of the reported residences of the registered sex offenders as examples.

Some or all of the acts of method or other methods described herein may be repeated. For example in many embodiments location information may be obtained e.g. act and stored e.g. act periodically when the first phone moves into another area when new information becomes available or the like. Further in some embodiments location information that is stored e.g. in act may be used many times e.g. in acts and and if appropriate in act between instances when location information is obtained e.g. in act . In a number of different embodiments the acts illustrated or described may be combined in various combinations or with other acts or features or both described herein.

Referring now to in a particular embodiment provided as an example SECURE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SMIM includes a platform for system which enables mobile phone users e.g. to to have access to certain personal information via their mobile phone e.g. to even when there is no signal or internet connection for the cell phone e.g. from mobile telephone network . In this embodiment SMIM includes one or more blocks of code that provide the framework and foundation of system and encompasses functionality from defining standards under which development takes place to defining security to communication between components and various core software applications.

In certain embodiments SMIM includes MICRO AGENT and WEB SERVICES. In this example of an embodiment MICRO AGENT runs on mobile phones and is an example of the second software module or a portion thereof and WEB SERVICES is an example of first software module or a portion thereof. In this example WEB SERVICES is a block of code or software that runs on server and that communicates with or exchanges data with MICRO AGENT on the phones website and secure storage for example. WEB SERVICES may be a communication layer between MICRO AGENT website and storage for instance. WEB SERVICES may provide or allow authentication communication protocol definition auditing of the integrity of data prevention of unauthorized access and so on and may allow access to website from the Internet .

In some embodiments local storage e.g. folder on mobile phone enables the application e.g. second software module to store information e.g. nuggets and of information on the phone e.g. which may provide for faster access reduce dependence on the network e.g. mobile phone network the Internet or both and may reduce the total cost of ownership by limiting the amount of data communication through mobile phone network that takes place e.g. at the expense of user . In some embodiments the data e.g. nuggets and on the phone e.g. is synchronized with data on server to ensure that the user e.g. has access to updated information both on their phone e.g. and on the web i.e. Internet which may be accessed at least by user through computer for instance .

Still another embodiment implements a method of eliminating a need to carry a card. This example of a method includes replacing an old component of a mobile phone with a new component. In some embodiments the new component includes at least one of a back a battery cover a battery and a case for the mobile phone as examples. In some embodiments the new component includes a magnetic code area configured to produce a magnetic code to be read by a card reader e.g. device when the phone is passed in close proximity to the card reader. Other embodiments may use a bar code as another example.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and element s that may cause benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of the claims. Reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. As used herein the terms comprises comprising or a variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further no element described herein is required for practice unless expressly described as essential or critical . Moreover those skilled in the art will recognize that changes and modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention. Thus different embodiments may include different combinations arrangements and or orders of elements or processing steps described herein or as shown in the drawing figures. For example the various components elements or process steps may be configured in alternate ways depending upon the particular application or in consideration of cost. These and other changes or modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

