---

title: Guided edit optimization
abstract: Techniques for optimizing a guided edit process for editing a member profile page are described. According to various embodiments, profile edit task information associated with a member of an online social network service is accessed, the profile edit task information identifying one or more candidate profile edit tasks to be performed to update a member profile page of the member. Thereafter, if it is determined that the member recently completed a difficult profile edit task, a difficult candidate profile edit task is identified, and the member is prompted to perform the difficult candidate profile edit task. If it is determined that the member has not recently completed a difficult profile edit task, an easy candidate profile edit task is identified, and the member is prompted to perform the easy candidate profile edit task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09253226&OS=09253226&RS=09253226
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09253226
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for optimizing a guided edit process for editing a member profile page.

Online social network services such as LinkedIn are becoming increasingly popular with many such websites boasting millions of active members. Each member of the online social network service is able to upload an editable member profile page to the online social network service. The member profile page may include various information about the member such as the member s biographical information photographs of the member and information describing the member s employment history education history skills experience activities and the like. Such member profile pages of the networking website are viewable by for example other members of the online social network service.

Example methods and systems for optimizing a guided edit process for editing a member profile page are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Briefly an existing guided profile edit feature of the online social network service LinkedIn prompts members to perform profile edit tasks in connection with their member profile such as adding photos or information to their profile . Currently there is a predetermined order of profile edit tasks which are displayed to every member. Moreover a particular profile edit task is repeatedly displayed to the member until that member either completes or skips that profile edit task. Various techniques described herein dynamically optimize the order in which profile edit tasks are displayed to a member in order to maximize the efficient completion of profile edit tasks by the member.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information hometown address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number .

With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein as a guided edit system . The guided edit system is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

Turning now to a guided edit system includes a determination module a prompt module and a database . The modules of the guided edit system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as a guided edit device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned guided edit device may be for example one or more client machines or application servers. The operation of each of the aforementioned modules of the guided edit system will now be described in greater detail below.

Generally each member of an online social network service such as LinkedIn has a member profile page that includes various information about that member. An example member profile page of an example member Jane Doe is illustrated in . As seen in the member profile page includes identification information such as the member s name Jane Doe member s current position Computer Programmer at XYZ and geographic address location information San Francisco Bay Area . The member s profile page also includes a photo area for displaying a photograph of the member. Further the member profile page includes various sections also known as fields . For example member profile page includes an experience section including listings of past or present experience positions of the member e.g. employment volunteer experience position an education section including listings of past or present educational credentials of the member e.g. university degree or diploma earned or currently being earned by the member and a skills endorsements section including listings of various skills of the member and endorsements of those skill listings by other members. Member profile page is merely exemplary and while the member profile page includes certain sections e.g. experience sections and education sections these sections or fields may be supplemented or replaced by other sections or fields e.g. a general portfolio section field an art portfolio section field a music portfolio section field a photography portfolio section field a multimedia section field a volunteer section field and so forth . A member profile page may include other information such as various identification information name username social media handle email address geographic address networks location phone number fax number etc. past or present education information past or present employment information past or present volunteer information resume information skills endorsements recommendations title industry company size seniority level activities group membership images photos preferences news status links or URLs on the profile page and so forth.

It is often challenging for members to update the information on their profile or otherwise make their profile as complete as possible. Accordingly social network services such as LinkedIn include a guided profile edit or guided edit feature that assists members in editing profile pages by performing various profile edit tasks. For example the system may maintain a list of profile edit tasks that need to be performed in order to complete a member profile page e.g. add title add photo add employment history add education history add skills add profile summary add any other attributes described above in conjunction with etc. . Thereafter a guided edit system may display prompts e.g. see prompt in associated with each outstanding profile edit task in the list that is each profile edit task in the list that has not been completed . In some embodiments the list of profile edit tasks may have a particular or fixed order. For example this list of profile edit tasks may have a predetermined order that is defined manually. Accordingly the guided edit system may display prompts associated with each outstanding profile edit task based on their order in the list. For example if the list includes tasks A B C and D the system will prompt the member to perform task A until task A is performed or skipped and then the system will prompt the member to perform task B and so on. Thus conventionally if a profile edit task is outstanding and needs to be performed the guided edit system will display this profile edit task repeatedly until the member finishes the task e.g. by clicking on the Complete button illustrated in or until the member affirmatively skips the task to proceed to the next task in the ordered list e.g. by clicking on the Skip button illustrated in .

As described in various embodiments herein the guided edit system is configured to order or reorder the list of profile edit tasks in order to optimize the profile editing process for members. For example in some embodiments the guided edit system may reorder the list of profile edit tasks based on a response metric associated with each profile edit task. An example of a response metric associated with a profile edit task is a click through rate or CTR e.g. representing the amount of clicks on the Complete button in in comparison to the number of impressions of the prompt . In some embodiments the task with the highest CTR may be placed at the top of the re ordered list the task with the second highest CTR may be placed second in the list and so on and the system may prompt the member to perform each task based on the updated ordering of the list. Thus the guided edit system may prompt the member to perform the task with the highest CTR first and then once the member finishes or skips that task the guided edit system may prompt the member to perform the task with the next highest CTR and so on. In some embodiments the guided edit system may prompt the member by displaying a prompt via a user interface on a client device where the prompt invites the member to update their member profile page by performing a specific profile edit task e.g. see . In some embodiments the guided edit system may prompt the member by transmitting a message to the member that invites the member to update their member profile page by performing a specific profile edit task. In some examples the message may be an email a text message e.g. short message service SMS message or multimedia messaging service MMS message a social network instant message a chat message etc.

The system may identify the response metrics associated with each task by accessing response metric information identifying a response metric value e.g. CTR associated with each of various tasks such as response metric information illustrated in . Such response metric information may be stored locally at for example the database illustrated in or may be stored remotely at a database data repository storage server etc. that is accessible by the guided edit system via a network e.g. the Internet . In some embodiments the guided edit system may generate the response metric information itself by accessing log history information e.g. see database in identifying historical responses to profile edit task prompts by members of an online social network service. In some embodiments the response metrics described herein may correspond to any type of metric or measurement of how a member interacts with a prompt or how a member performs a task. For example the response metric may measure how many members actually complete a given profile edit task.

In some embodiments the guided edit system may infer the difficulty of a task and or the likelihood that a member may complete a task based on a response metric e.g. CTR associated with the task. Accordingly the CTR associated with the task may correlate to or serve as a proxy for the difficulty of the task with tasks having higher CTR and being correlated with easier or lightweight tasks and vice versa and tasks having lower CTRs being correlated to more difficult or heavyweight tasks and vice versa. In some example embodiments the system may reorder a list of candidate profile edit tasks based on the difficulty of each task. For example the guided edit system may access task difficulty information identifying a difficulty classification associated with each of various tasks such as the task difficulty information illustrated in . The difficulty classification associated with each task may be for example one of easy medium or hard or one of lightweight and heavyweight or a number within a predetermined range of numbers such as the range 0 to 1 1 to 10 1 to 100 etc. . In some embodiments the guided edit system may generate the task difficulty information where the difficulty classification of each task may be determined based on the CTR or another response metric associated with that task e.g. tasks with a CTR higher than a predetermined threshold may be classified as easy tasks otherwise they may be classified as difficult tasks as described above. The difficulty classification associated with each task may also be determined in other ways such as receiving user input regarding the difficulty of each task e.g. via user responses to surveys or questionnaires or from comments or questions received from users etc. .

In some embodiments the guided edit system may reorder the list of profile edit tasks based on an importance value associated with each profile edit task. For example the guided edit system may access task importance information identifying importance values associated with each of various tasks such as the task importance information illustrated in . The task importance information may be stored locally at for example the database illustrated in or may be stored remotely at a database data repository storage server etc. that is accessible by the guided edit system via a network e.g. the Internet . In some embodiments the task with the highest importance value may be placed at the top of the re ordered list the task with the second highest importance value may be placed second in the list and so on and the system may prompt the member to perform each task based on the updated ordering of the list. Thus the guided edit system may prompt the member to perform the task with the highest importance value first and then once the member finishes or skips that task the guided edit system may prompt the member to perform the task with the next highest importance value and so on. The guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust the importance value associated with each of the profile edit tasks.

In some embodiments the importance value may represent the importance or value of the completion of that task to the overall completeness quality value impact success etc. of the member s profile. In other words the importance value may represent the impact the performance of that task may have on a member s profile quality e.g. in terms of an increase in profile views member connections messages received such as LinkedIn InMails and so on . For example adding a photo may lead to a huge increase in profile views whereas adding a skill may lead to a small increase in profile views. Thus by placing tasks having a greater importance higher up in the list of profile edit tasks people may receive more value sooner out of the guided edit process. In some embodiments the importance value may represent the importance of the completion of that task from the business or financial perspective of a website or social network ecosystem. As one example websites or social networks often serve advertisements and other content to members based on the current location of the member. Thus the completion of a profile edit task whereby the member adds their location to their profile may be very important or valuable from a business perspective of a social network notwithstanding its impact on profile views for the member profile. Thus by placing tasks having a greater importance higher up in the list of profile edit tasks websites or social networks may receive greater business benefits out of the guided edit process. The guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust the importance value associated with each of the profile edit tasks.

In some embodiments the guided edit system may reorder a list of profile edit tasks based on any combination of response metrics difficulty classifications or importance values associated with each profile edit task. The guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust weights associated with each of the factors response metrics importance values etc. that can be utilized for ranking the list of profile edit tasks.

In some example embodiments instead of showing the same profile edit task to a member until he skips or completes the task the system may perform an impression discounting technique by moving on to the next task if that member has viewed the same task prompt a number of times. The inventors have determined that the CTR of every task decreases exponentially with its number of impressions to a particular member. Accordingly if the guided edit system determines that a member has viewed a prompt inviting them to perform a specific profile edit task e.g. see a predetermined number of times e.g. during a predetermined time interval then the system may avoid prompting that member to perform that profile edit task and may begin prompting the member to perform another profile edit task e.g. the next profile edit task in a list of candidate profile edit tasks . The guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust the aforementioned predetermined number and or predetermined time interval e.g. associated with all or each of the profile edit tasks . The guided edit system may determine the prompts the member has already viewed by for example accessing log history information identifying content e.g. profile edit task prompts displayed to each member. Such log history information may be stored locally at for example the database illustrated in or may be stored remotely at a database data repository storage server etc. that is accessible by the guided edit system via a network e.g. the Internet .

In some embodiments instead of showing the tasks in the same order to everyone the system may dynamically determine the order of tasks based on the state of the profile of a member and recent profile update tasks performed by that member. For example if a member has just completed a heavyweight task like editing their summary then it is more likely that he is in a flow or mode of profile editing also referred to herein as a profile edit session and is therefore more likely to finish another heavyweight task like adding a photo. Accordingly for such a member the system may prompt the member to perform another heavyweight task after he finishes the current heavyweight task. However if a member has not recently completed a heavyweight task e.g. even after the member has been prompted a number of times the system may follow up with a prompt for a lightweight task. The guided edit system may determine the prompts the member has already viewed or the profile edit tasks the member has already performed by for example accessing log history information identifying content e.g. profile edit task prompts displayed to each member and profile edit tasks performed by each member. Such log history information may be stored locally at for example the database illustrated in or may be stored remotely at a database data repository storage server etc. that is accessible by the guided edit system via a network e.g. the Internet .

Referring back to if the determination module determines that the member has recently performed a difficult profile edit task Yes then in operation the determination module identifies a specific one of the candidate profile edit tasks accessed in operation that is classified as a difficult task e.g. adding a member photo to the member profile page . For example the prompt module may access task difficulty information e.g. see identifying a difficulty classification e.g. difficult or easy associated with various profile edit tasks. In operation the prompt module prompts the member to perform the specific profile edit task identified in operation .

Referring back to if the determination module determines that the member has not recently performed a difficult profile edit task No then in operation the determination module identifies one of the candidate profile edit tasks accessed in operation that is classified as an easy task e.g. adding a skill from a list of one or more suggested skills . For example the prompt module may access task difficulty information e.g. see identifying a difficulty classification e.g. difficult or easy associated with various profile edit tasks. In operation the prompt module prompts the member to perform the profile edit task identified in operation . It is contemplated that the operations of method may incorporate any of the other features disclosed herein. Various operations in the method may be omitted or rearranged as necessary.

As described above in conjunction with if the member has recently completed a difficult task Yes then the member may be presented with another difficult task. It is possible that this flow may continue for a long period of time e.g. if there are a large number of difficult tasks to perform and the member continues to perform them . In order to prevent the member being continuously confronted with difficult tasks the system may not automatically assign a difficult task to the member but instead may introduce a lightweight task after the member completes the heavyweight task. For example in some embodiments if the member has performed a predetermined number of heavyweight tasks e.g. within a predetermined time period then a lightweight task may be presented thereafter instead of a heavyweight task. The guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust the aforementioned predetermined number or predetermined time period. In some embodiments if the member has recently completed a difficult task Yes then the system may select the next task randomly with a 90 weighting towards difficult tasks and a 10 weighting towards easy tasks in other words there is a 90 chance that the member may be presented with a difficult task . Similarly if the member has not recently completed a difficult task No then the system may select the next task randomly with a 90 weighting towards the easy tasks and a 10 weighting towards the difficult tasks. The aforementioned percentages are merely exemplary and the guided edit system may display a user interface allowing a user of the guided edit system e.g. administrators or website personnel to adjust the aforementioned percentages.

Various example embodiments described above may be combined. For example the system may order an existing list of candidate profile edit tasks which may have a predetermined ordering e.g. A B C D etc. based on a response metric and or an importance value associated with each of the candidate profile edits tasks to generate a revised list e.g. C A D B . Thereafter when displaying a particular candidate profile edit task to the member e.g. C if the system determines that the member has viewed a predetermined number of prompts or invitations to perform that profile edit task the system may skip past that task and begin displaying prompts to perform that next task in the reordered list e.g. A . The system may avoid displaying the prompt for the skipped task e.g. C until the member has successfully performed all the other tasks per the reordered list e.g. A D and B . Moreover in some embodiments if the system determines that the member has just performed a very difficult task the system may disregard the current ordering of the list and select another candidate profile edit task classified as a difficult task. The system may repeat this until it determines that the member has not recently performed a difficult task and then the system may select an easy task to display to the member.

While various example embodiments herein describe optimizing the ordering of a list of profile edit tasks the embodiments and techniques described herein are not limited merely to profile edit tasks and are applicable to any type of task s to be performed.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

