---

title: Document authentication based on expected wear
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed that enable authentication based on a physical document. Specifically, a document authentication service is disclosed that utilizes characteristics of a physical document, such as an identification card already in a user's possession, to authenticate a user. In one embodiment, the characteristics of a document may be processed based at least in part on an expected wear of the document (e.g., from use by the user). Expected wear may be identified, for example, based on historical data gathered across a number of users of the document authentication service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483629&OS=09483629&RS=09483629
owner: 
number: 09483629
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140925
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 883 133 entitled DOCUMENT AUTHENTICATION BASED ON EXPECTED WEAR and filed Sep. 26 2013 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

User authentication as may be used in a variety of security contexts generally relies on one or more of three authentication factors knowledge e.g. knowledge unique to the user inherence e.g. a unique and inherent characteristic of the user and possession e.g. a unique item in the user s possession . Passwords are a typical example of a knowledge authentication factor as they represent information that is expected only to be known to the user. Knowledge factors generally include substantial limitations. For example the security of a password is directly dependent on its complexity and as complexity is increased a user is less likely to correctly recall the password.

Inherence factors such as biometric information can at least partially correct these features since biometric information can be inherently complex and does not require the user to recall the information. However the hardware required to implement inherence factors can often be prohibitively expensive and the variety of different standards and implementations make widespread adoption problematic.

Possession based authentication generally relies on a unique object in the possession of a user such as a smart card RFID chip or cryptographic key fob. These objects may also be referred to in various forms as security tokens authentication tokens hardware tokens or cryptographic tokens. Often security tokens are associated with similar drawbacks to the use of biometrics in that the tokens or hardware required to use the tokens may be prohibitively expensive and adhere to a number of different standards and implementations. In addition unlike biometric authentication factors security tokens may be lost by users.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and computerized processes for authenticating users based at least in part on inherent characteristics of physical documents. Physical documents may include but are not limited to driver s licenses passports birth certificates social security cards student identification cards and other government or privately issued identification cards or badges. Specifically a document authentication service is disclosed that enables users or authorized parties to submit information regarding a physical document e.g. a photograph or scan of the document to the document authentication service for enrollment. The document authentication service may process the received information to generate a security token representative of the physical document. The security token may be generated based at least in part on physical characteristics of the document such as the size and shape of the document or patterns and colors within the document. In one embodiment abnormalities within the document are utilized in the generation of the security token as these abnormalities are unlikely to exist in other similar documents. For example artifacts resulting from creation printing or manufacture of the document may be utilized to generate the security token. In order to subsequently authenticate with the document authentication service a user may present the same physical document at an authentication end point. Information regarding the document can then be transmitted to the document authentication service for comparison with the previously generated security token. In some embodiments comparison of a presented document with a previously generated security token may be based at least in part on an expected wear of the physical document. For example an acceptance threshold for such a comparison may be based at least in part on the length of time since the physical document was last presented for authentication.

The use of physical documents as authentication tokens may overcome some traditional limitations of security tokens which generally require users to possess an additional unique physical object. Because many if not most people already carry at least one physical document e.g. a driver s license or identification card use of such documents as authenticating tokens would not require users to constantly possess any additional items. In addition the use of already existent physical documents results in a lower cost of service as no security tokens need be distributed to users and no replacement cost for lost or damaged documents is assessed on the document authentication service. For ease of reference the term security token is used within various examples described herein and generally refers to a set of information representative of a document presented for authentication by a user. In some instances information representative of a document may additionally or alternatively be referred to as an authentication token hardware token or cryptographic token.

The document authentication service may generally interact with a number of authentication end points to facilitate both enrollment of documents as security tokens and authentication based on those documents. Authentication end points may include any location at which a user desires or is required to be authenticated including but not limited to a user computing device a point of sale a banking terminal e.g. an automated teller machine and an access checkpoint. Though discussed generally herein as locations authentication end points may in some instances be mobile e.g. where the authentication end point is a user s mobile computing device . Each authentication end point may be configured with a scanner imager or other device capable of capturing required information of the physical document and transmitting such information to the document authentication service. The specific configuration of an authentication end point may be based in part on the document itself and or information required. For example where a document contains optical elements e.g. barcodes watermarks pictures print letters ultraviolet or infrared markings etc. the authentication end points may include an optical scanner or image sensor e.g. camera to capture those optical elements. As a further example where a document contains magnetic or radio frequency accessible information an authentication end point may include magnetic or radio frequency readers to capture such information. Accordingly a user may interact with the authentication end point in order capture any necessary information from the physical document. This information may then be transmitted to the document authentication service for enrollment or authentication. As will be discussed in more detail below in some instances authentication end points may process transform or modify the information prior to transmission to the document authentication service e.g. to normalize the information or facilitate more rapid transmission .

During enrollment a user may provide information regarding a not previously enrolled document to the document authentication service for initial processing. On reception of the document information the document authentication service can process the information in order to generate a security token corresponding to the document. Such a security token generally represents a unique or substantially unique set of information corresponding to the physical document. A security token may be generated based on any set or combination of information within the physical document including both information presented by the document e.g. text photographs or digital encodings represented by the document and characteristics of the document not intended to convey information e.g. size shape color condition or anomalies within all or a portion of the document . In some instances security tokens may be generated based on processing document information according to one or more algorithms. For example a security token may be generated based at least in part on transforming document information from a spatial domain e.g. as represented in an image into a frequency domain e.g. as generated by a Fourier transform of that image . As a further example a security token may be generated based at least in part on transforming image information of a document into textual information e.g. by passing the image through an optical character recognition OCR algorithm . Further generation of a security token may utilize one or more hashing algorithms to both ensure uniqueness of the security token and to reduce the total size or complexity of the security token. In some embodiments specific aspects or portions of a document may be processed in order to determine a set of basis functions representative of a document as well as one or more coefficients for each basis function. Illustratively such coefficients when used in connection with the basis functions may provide a mathematical representation of the document. Basis functions for a presented document or coefficients of such functions may thereafter be compared to basis functions of a previously enrolled document or coefficients related to the previously enrolled document to determine potential validity of a document based on expected wear. In general the basis functions across a number of documents of the same type may be expected to be similar. Accordingly some embodiments of the present disclosure may generate a security token based on basis function coefficients corresponding to a specific document independently of the basis functions themselves. While various examples of algorithms used to generate security tokens are described herein any set of well known algorithms such as wavelet analysis or principal component analysis algorithms may additionally or alternatively be used to generate the security token.

After generation of a security token the document authentication service may store the security token within a data store e.g. a database for future authentication purposes. The document authentication service may also transmit a confirmation to the authentication end point to verify enrollment of the document.

Thereafter a user is enabled to present the same physical document at another authentication end point where the document authentication service again generates a security token based on the document. The generated security token may be compared to security tokens previously collected by the document authentication service to authenticate the user. Because each security token is unique or extremely statistically likely to be unique possession of the document reflects that the user is the same entity that previously enrolled with the document authentication service. Accordingly the user may be granted security rights associated with the previously enrolled document. In one embodiment the document authentication service may compare a generated security token to a single previously generated security token such as a previous security token generated for the user requesting authentication. In another embodiment the document authentication service may compare a generated security token to multiple previously generated security tokens e.g. tokens of multiple documents or multiple users . Such previously generated security tokens may be selected for example based on similarity to the currently presented security token.

Generation of a security token by the document authentication service is not wholly or in some instances even partially dependent on information presented by the document e.g. name date of birth identification number address gender country of issuance etc. . Accordingly forgeries of such information would not be sufficient to imitate an original physical document. Moreover a security token may be generated based at least in part on characteristics inherent to a physical document that are practically or actually unable to be forged such as manufacturing defects or wear patterns e.g. fading cracking or tearing . Accordingly use of the document authentication service may substantially guarantee authentication is granted only to possessors of a single physical document.

While the present application may not require verification of personal information within a document embodiments of the present application may nevertheless verify such personal information or work in conjunction with other systems and methods for verification of personal information. Illustratively the document authentication service disclosed herein may communicate with an identity verification service to verify an identity of a user as will be described in more detail below.

In some embodiments the document authentication service may be configured to authenticate users based on physical documents even when such documents experience changes over time. For example the document authentication service may enable authentication of worn damaged or modified documents such as documents including folds scrapes tears worn features e.g. illegible text or a reduced visibility photograph reduced magnetic signal e.g. based on worn magnetic stripes or altered chemical composition e.g. due to time or exposure based chemical reactions within the document . As will be described in more detail below authentication of a document can be based at least in part on an acceptable deviation of the presented document to a previously enrolled version of the document. In one instance the level of acceptable deviation can be based at least in part on an expected wear of the document and a duration since the document was last presented for authentication. For example where a document has been recently presented and is associated with low expected wear e.g. a robust plastic identity card the acceptable deviation from the previous version of the same document may be very low. Conversely where document has not been recently presented and is associated with high expected wear e.g. a paper identity card the acceptable deviation from the previous version of the same document may be higher. In this manner the document authentication system can authenticate even documents that are expected to degrade over time and with use.

In some instances different portions of a document may be associated with varying levels of expected wear. For example the raised numbering on a credit card may be expected to wear more quickly than text that sits flush with the face of a card. As a further example features on the edges of a card may be expected to wear more quickly than features near the center of the card. In some instances systems of the present disclosure may utilize varying rates of expected wear in order to authenticate a document. For example systems disclosed herein may attempt to authenticate a document based on areas that are expected to wear relatively less quickly than other areas e.g. because the accuracy in predicting expected wear of a given portion may have a direct or proportional relationship to the extent of the expected wear for the given portion . As a further example the system may authenticate a document based at least in part on a determination that multiple portions are wearing at an expected relative rate e.g. that raised numbering is wearing proportionally more quickly than other text that edge features are wearing proportionally more quickly than center features etc. . Illustratively if wear levels for various sections of a document have not incurred wear at their expected relative rates e.g. if all portions show a similar amount of wear despite varying expected wear rates the system may determine that the document has been artificially worn e.g. as part of a forgery attempt . Expected wear of a document may be based at least in part on historical data regarding the document or similar documents. For example expected wear of a document can be based on observed wear that has occurred within documents of the same type submitted to the document authentication service. Documents types may include by way of non limiting example a specific composition of a document e.g. metal plastic laminated paper unlamented paper magnetized stipe etc. a specific purpose of a document e.g. driver s license passport worker ID badge etc. a specific jurisdiction of a document e.g. U.S. military identification card state identification card etc. or any combination thereof.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may utilize document based security tokens independently or in combination with other authentication techniques. For example embodiments of the present application may be utilized in order to allow user authentication based solely on possession of a specific document e.g. a driver s license . Further embodiments of the present application may be utilized to allow document based authentication in conjunction with other authentication techniques such as knowledge based authentication e.g. something you know biometric authentication e.g. something you are or other security token based authentications e.g. something you have . While specific examples may be presented that relate to the use of document based authentication these examples are not intended to exclude the use of alternate authentication techniques.

Turning to a schematic block diagram is shown depicting an illustrative operating environment in which one or more authentication end points may interact with a document authentication system to authenticate a user based on an enrolled document. As will be described below document authentication system may further enable an authentication of users even where an enrolled document has been modified since enrollment e.g. based on continued use or wear of the document . As illustrated in the operating environment includes one or more user authentication end points in communication with the document authentication system via a network .

Authentication end points may include any computing device configured to enable a user to present a physical document for authentication by the document authentication server . Examples of authentication end points include but are not limited to desktops laptops tablets mobile telephones personal digital assistants wearable computing devices point of sale devices automated teller machines kiosks and special purpose authentication computing devices e.g. as may be placed at a security checkpoint in connection with a secured location . In some instances authentication end points may be under control or ownership of the user being authenticated. In other instances authentication end points may be under the control of a third party e.g. seeking to authenticate the user . Authentication end points may include any combination of software and hardware enabling a user to present a physical document for authentication including a network interfaces memories processing units computer readable medium drives and physical document information collection devices e.g. optical scanners cameras barcode readers magnetic stripe readers and radio frequency readers including those used in reading radio frequency identification RFID signals and or near field communication signals NFC . Users utilizing an authentication end point may capture information regarding a physical document and communicate such information to the document authentication system in connection with either or both of enrollment or authentication.

The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network ad hoc or peer to peer network radio access network RAN or combination thereof. Further network may be a publically accessible network e.g. an interoperable public safety broadband network such as FirstNet or privately operated network e.g. as established by a business government or military organization . In the illustrated embodiment the network is the Internet. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The document authentication system is illustrated in as operating in a distributed computing environment including several computer systems that are interconnected using one or more networks. More specifically the document authentication system may include a user interaction server an authentication server and a security token data store discussed in greater detail below. However the document authentication system may have fewer or greater components than are illustrated in . In addition the document authentication system could include various web services and or peer to peer network configurations. Thus the depiction of document authentication system in should be taken as illustrative and not limiting to the present disclosure.

Additionally in some embodiments some or all components of the document authentication system may be executed by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. A hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

Any one or more of the user interaction server the authentication server and the security token data store may be embodied in a plurality of components each executing an instance of the respective user interaction server authentication server and security token data store . A server or other computing component implementing any one of user interaction server the authentication server and the security token data store may include a network interface memory processing unit and computer readable medium drive all of which may communicate which each other may way of a communication bus. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network and or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the respective user interaction server authentication server and security token data store . The memory may generally include RAM ROM other persistent and auxiliary memory and or any non transitory computer readable media.

With further reference to illustrative components of the document authentication system will now be discussed. Specifically the document authentication system includes a user interaction server configured to enable users to interact with the document authentication server to enroll and or authenticate physical documents. In one embodiment the user interaction server includes a web server hosting web content e.g. web pages that is accessible by authentication end points . Illustrative examples of web pages that may be generated based at least in part on the user interaction server are described below with reference to . In another embodiment the user interaction server may enable interaction with dedicated applications operating on an authentication end point such as a desktop application mobile application or dedicated operating system . Interaction with dedicated applications may occur for example by use of an application programming interface API . Such an API may facilitate reception of enrollment or authentication requests from authentication end points reception of physical document information from authentication end points and transmission of authentication result information to authentication end points .

The user interaction server is in communication with an authentication server . The authentication server enables enrollment of documents into the authentication system as well as authentication based on such documents. Specifically the authentication server is configured to generate a security token based on received document information and that uniquely identifies the document. The authentication server generates a security token based on any set or combination of information within the physical document such as information presented by the document and or inherent characteristics or the document. In some instances the authentication server generates a security token based on processing document information according to one or more algorithms such as an OCR algorithm or Fourier transform. Subsequent to generation of a security token the authentication server stores the security token within the security token data store for potential future use.

The authentication server is further configured to authenticate users based on a physical document previously enrolled within the document authentication system . Specifically the authentication server can receive an authentication request from an authentication end point including document information. Thereafter the authentication server can generate a security token of the document as described above. The authentication server may then determine whether a corresponding security token exists within the security token data store . If such a corresponding security token exists the authentication server may indicate successful authentication to the authentication end point e.g. via the user interaction server . In this manner the authentication end point may be notified that the physical document presented for authentication is the same document that was previously enrolled into the document authentication system . In some instances the authentication server may further transmit information regarding the security token or the corresponding physical document such as a picture of the initially enrolled document a document identification number a user associated with the document or a photograph of such a user. Illustratively such information may be used at an authentication point to verify information of the user. In some instances such use may be automated. For example an authentication end point may be configured to only allow entry to a secure area after presentation of a specific physical document associated with an authorized user. In other embodiment information regarding a document may be used by human operators at the authentication end point .

As will be discussed below in some instances the authentication server may not require an exact match between a newly generated security token and a corresponding security token within the security token data store . Specifically in one embodiment the authentication server may be configured to determine an acceptable level of difference between a new and previously generated security token representing the current and previously presented physical documents respectively . Such an acceptable level of difference can be determined based at least in part on the amount of time between presentations of the physical document. For example an acceptable level of difference may be very low for a document that was recently presented for authentication e.g. within the past 24 hours and relatively higher for a document that has not been presented for authentication in the recent past. Such a variance in an acceptable level of difference can account for expected changes to the physical document such as wear and degradation due to use. Such wear and degradation may be apparent for example in either or both of the information contained within a document e.g. photographs text etc. or the physical characteristics of the document itself. Illustratively paper documents may become folded scratched torn or faded over time. Accordingly a paper document presented frequently e.g. every day is likely to show little difference at each presentation. Conversely a paper document that is presented infrequently e.g. once every six months is likely to show a greater difference at each presentation. In some embodiments an acceptable level of difference may further be based at least in part on an expected rate of wear of the document. Illustratively plastic documents e.g. drivers licenses may have a low expected rate of wear compared to paper documents e.g. social security cards . In some embodiments an expected rate of wear of a document may be determined based on historical wear rates of other similar documents. For example the document authentication system may determine an expected rate of wear for a driver s license based on an average rate of wear across all drivers licenses registered with the document authentication system . Still further expected changes within specific features of a document may be based on statistical modeling related to each feature. For example a magnetic stripe feature may be expected to degrade at a specific rate e.g. as determined based on other similar magnetic stripes the composition of the stripes etc. . As a further example a feature comprised of known chemical elements may degrade at a rate dependent on such elements e.g. due to a determined rate of chemical reaction within the feature . The expected degradation of such features may also be determined based on statistical modeling of historical document information.

While an acceptable level of difference is discussed herein with respect to an entire document some embodiments may apply different acceptability levels to different portions of a document. For example historical records of a specific class of document may reflect that specific portions of those documents e.g. color photographs tend to wear quickly while other portions e.g. text tend to wear little. Accordingly the authentication server can be configured to determine whether each portion of a presented document is within an acceptable level of difference from a corresponding portion of a previously enrolled document.

In addition the operating environment may include an identification verification service configured to verify the identity of a user at an authentication end point . As noted above the document authentication system is generally configured to determine whether a physical document presented for authentication corresponds to a previously enrolled physical document. Such a determination may not generally depend upon verification of the identity of the individual presenting the document. For example while document information may be used to generate a security token of a document the document authentication system might not generally attempt to verify that such information is correct. Accordingly in some embodiments the document authentication system may work with an identity verification service configured to verify the identity of a user based at least in part on a physical document. Interaction between the document authentication system and the identity verification service may be facilitated for example by an API of the identity verification service . Thereafter information gained from the identity verification service by the document authentication system may be provided to the authentication end point . The specific functionality of the identity verification service is outside the scope of the present disclosure and multiple examples of such verification services are well known within the art. Accordingly the specific functionality of the identity verification will not be discussed in further detail herein.

In some instances the operating environment may further include a behavioral data store which holds information regarding the actions and behaviors of users and or physical documents. Behavioral information can include for example dates and times associated with actions of users and or physical documents e.g. timing of authentication of users locations of those actions and additional information regarding those actions. For example where a behavioral data store includes financial data of a user behavioral data may include financial transaction dates and times of the user transactional types transactional amounts etc. As a further example where a behavioral data store includes job or housing information of a user behavioral data may include housing addresses and dates rent amounts mortgage information employer identities employment periods compensation amounts etc. Information within the behavioral data store may be utilized by the document authentication system in conjunction with document enrollment and or authentication. For example in one embodiment the authentication server is configured to verify a document presented for authentication based at least in part on a last known location of that document. For example where a document was presented for authentication in New York at a first point in time and only hours later is presented for authentication in Los Angeles the authentication server may determine that at least one of the presented documents is not genuine. In other embodiments the authentication server may utilize information within the behavioral data store to determine anomalous activity of a document or a user. For example where a document is typically presented for authentication according to a set pattern the authentication server may refuse to authenticate the document when presented outside the pattern or may warn the authentication end point that the document is being presented outside of a normal pattern. Accordingly utilization of the information within a behavioral data store may increase the accuracy of the authentication server in authenticating documents.

Though shown as a single data store behavioral data store may include a combination of independent or distinct data stores. Such data stores may be operated by one or more distinct entities either associated or unassociated with the document authentication system .

Other configurations than shown within are possible and within the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some instances the identity verification service and the behavioral data store may be integrated or associated with a single service. As a further example the identity verification service and or the behavioral data store may be integral to or included within the document authentication system . As yet another example in some instances all or a portion of the components of the document authentication service may be integrated with an authentication end point . Illustratively where the authentication end point includes a persistent memory a security token data store may be included in the authentication end point . Accordingly the configuration of elements within is intended to be illustrative in nature.

With reference to an illustrative interaction between an authentication end point and elements of the document authentication system will be described. Specifically the interactions of may represent enrollment of a document into the document authentication system by a user. The interactions being at 1 where a user s physical document is presented at an authentication end point . As noted above the authentication end point may include any of a variety of inputs to receive information regarding the physical document. In the illustrative interaction of the authentication end point includes a camera capable of taking a photograph of the presented physical document. Accordingly a user or authorized third party can take a photograph of the document which may then be transmitted to the user interaction server along with a request to enroll the document within the document authentication system . In some instances a document photograph may be transmitted to the user interaction server without further modification e.g. as a JPG image . In other instances the authentication end point may be configured to modify the document image prior to transmission to the user interaction server such as by compressing the image cropping the image aligning the image and or modifying the contrast or brightness of the image. After such processing the image is transmitted to the user interaction server at 2 . In some instances information regarding the presented document is sent independently. In other embodiments the authentication endpoint may transmit additional information regarding the document or a user presenting the document. Illustratively the authentication endpoint may transmit an indication of an asserted identifier of the document or of the user. Examples of such identifiers include but are not limited to a user name or identifier a document enrollment identifier an account identifier or an organizational identifier. The document authentication service may thereafter utilize the asserted identifier to locate a corresponding document enrolled within the document authentication service .

After reception of the image enrollment request and identifier information the user interaction server at 3 forwards the received image and identifier information to the authentication server . Thereafter at 4 the authentication server generates a security token based at least on the received document image. In one embodiment the authentication server processes the received image to determine both physical attributes of the original document and information contained within or conveyed by the original document. Illustratively the authentication server may utilize an edge detection routine such as the Canny edge detection algorithm to determine the overall size and shape of the document. The authentication server may further process the image to determine other characteristics of the document such as the color tone and texture. In one instance the authentication server may process the entire received image at once to determine overall characteristics of the document. In another instance the authentication server may process one or more portions of the image independently to determine characteristics of each portion of the image. In some embodiments the security token may also be generated based at least in part on identifier information submitted by the user.

In addition the authentication server may process the image to attempt extraction of information conveyed by the image such as textual information. In one instance processing the image to extract information may include passing all or part of the image through an OCR algorithm. In another instance processing the image to extract information may include isolating specific portions of the document such as a photograph printed on the document. In some such instances the authentication server may utilize a facial recognition routine to determine whether a photograph within the received image corresponds to a known photograph or identity. In some embodiments information extracted from the document image can be utilized independently or in addition to submitted information to determine an identifier for the document. For example where an OCR algorithm extracts a user s name from the document such a name may be utilized as a user identifier. Similarly an extracted document identification number may be utilized as a document identifier. In this manner the document authentication service may assign an identifier to a processed document even where no identifier is provided by the authentication end point .

The authentication server may then utilize both characteristics of the document and information conveyed by the document to generate a security token corresponding to the document. In one instance a security token may include all data extracted from the document. In another instance a security token may include only a portion of the data extracted. The authentication server may select such portions based on the uniqueness of the information contained within the portions which may be determined based on a predetermined set of document templates e.g. information as to how an average document would appear and or historical data of similar documents. For example where the originally scanned document is a driver s license the document image may include the text State Driver s License in a corner of the document. The authentication server may compare this text to other scanned driver s licenses or a predefined driver s license template to determine that such text is common among driver s licenses. Accordingly the authentication server may not base a security token off this text. Conversely in an instance where the originally scanned document is a driver s license and the same portion of the document image includes the text Driver s Li se e.g. due to damage or modification to the license due to image recognition issues by the authentication server or both the authentication server may be highly likely to utilize this portion in creating a security token. Additional examples of unique or unusual information within a document image include abnormalities in creation printing or manufacture of the document e.g. artifacts within photographs of the document as well as evidence of unusual wear chipping cracking bend marks bubbling of laminate and staining. Because this information is unlikely to exist within another document the information is a good candidate for generation of a unique security token.

In one embodiment machine learning techniques may be utilized in order to identify unique or non unique portions of a document. Illustratively a training data set may be created including a collection of documents of a given type. The authentication server or an additional component of the document authentication service may thereafter utilize the training set to identify similarities and discrepancies between the documents. For example the authentication server may determine for individual portions of the document collection the range of variation in the portion. In instances where the training data includes new or relatively new documents variation within a portion may be indicative of unique data e.g. a user s name ID number etc. . In instances where the training data set includes documents in various states of wear variations may be indicative of wear to the portion. In some embodiments the training data set may indicate for a given document within the collection the age of the document or other indication of the state of wear of the document . The authentication server can therefore utilize the indicated age to determine whether variations are more likely the result of uniqueness or of document wear. In some instances a machine learning data set may include data regarding a variety of document types. The authentication server can utilize clustering techniques as are well known within the art to automatically sort documents into various document types. Moreover where machine learning techniques are applied to individual portions of a document e.g. a barcode a training data set may include similar portions e.g. similar barcodes extracted from a variety of document types. Thus wear patterns from a particular feature type e.g. barcodes signatures magnetic stripes etc. may be modeled based on data from a variety of different document types include such a particular feature type. In some instances the authentication server can utilize machine learning techniques to identify an expected wear pattern across various portions of a document. As described above expected wear patterns e.g. indicating relative rates of wear across portions of a given document may be compared to a recognized wear pattern within a document in order to authenticate the document. For example where a scanned document s wear pattern varies greatly from an expected wear pattern the document may be determined to be fraudulent or non authenticated. In some instances the authentication server may utilize one or more hashing algorithms to encode information regarding the document image into a security token. Such hashing algorithms may reduce the total size necessary to represent the security token as well as remove or obfuscate sensitive information within the physical document. After creation of a security token the authentication server stores the security token within the security token data store . Though not shown in the authentication server may store additional information within the security token data store such as a date and time of creation of the token the specific authentication end point from which the enrollment request was received the user associated with the security token etc.

In addition after creation of a security token the authentication server may return an enrollment verification notification to the authentication end point confirming that the document was successfully enrolled in the document authentication system .

With reference now to an illustrative interaction for authenticating a user based on a previously enrolled physical document will be described. The authentication point of may be the same authentication point discussed above with respect to or a different authentication point .

With reference to the illustrative interaction may begin at 1 where an image of a physical document is captured at an authentication point . Imaging or otherwise capturing information regarding a physical document is described in more detail above with respect to . Thereafter a document image corresponding to the document is transmitted to the user interaction server at 2 as a request for authentication. The user interaction server in turn forwards the received document image to the authentication server at 3 . As described above the authentication endpoint may in some instances also transmit an asserted identifier of the user or the physical document such as a user name user ID or document ID. Thereafter the authentication server is configured to authenticate the document based on information regarding previously enrolled documents stored within the security token data store independently or in conjunction with a provided identifier. Accordingly at 4 the authentication server generates a security token for the received document image. This security token is generated in the same manner as is described above with respect to to ensure similarity been security tokens generated from the same document.

In order to determine whether the presently generated security token corresponds to any previously enrolled document the authentication server at 5 requests a set of security tokens from the security token data store . In one embodiment the authentication server requests all previously enrolled security tokens. In another embodiment the authentication server requests only a subset of security tokens within the security token data store . Such a subset may be selected for example based on the identifier information of the user provided at the authentication end point or extracted from the presented document e.g. corresponding to a purported user identity or a purported identifier of the presented document based on the generated security token for the presented document e.g. by requesting only similar tokens from the data store or both. In some instances a requested subset of security tokens may include only a single security token. For example the authentication server may request only the most recent security token generated for a purported user attempting to be authenticated. The requested tokens are returned to the authentication server at 6 .

Thereafter the authentication server can verify whether the security token generated for the presently presented document corresponds to any previously generated security token e.g. of a previously enrolled document . In one embodiment verification can include determining whether the newly generated security token directly matches any previous security token within the security token data store . Such a direct match may occur for example when the document has not changed appreciable between authentications.

In other embodiments verification of a correspondence between the newly generated security token and a previously generated token may include determination of an acceptable variation between the tokens. As described above acceptable variation between tokens can be based at least in part on an expected wear of the document or portions thereof and a duration since the document was last presented for authentication. Illustratively a given document may be assigned an expected wear rate represented as a percentage of variation per unit of time. Such an expected wear rate can be manually specified or automatically calculated by the authentication server based on wear of other documents within the document authentication system . Once an expected wear rate is established for a document the acceptable variation may be determined based on the expected wear rate multiplied by the difference in times associated with two security tokens e.g. a duration between the current presentation of the document and a past presentation of the document .

After verifying whether the security token generated for the presently presented document corresponds to any previously generated security token the authentication server transmits a verification result e.g. a verification pass or verification fail to the user interaction server at 8 . This result is then passed to the authentication end point at 9 for output to the user or an authorized third party. Examples of user interfaces displaying verification results are described below with respect to .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art may include alternative or additional interactions. For example though not shown in in some embodiments the authentication server can be configured to store any generated security tokens regardless of whether authentication is or is not successful. Illustratively storage of all security tokens may allow the authentication server to track presentation of documents that fail to be authenticated e.g. for security purposes . In addition the authentication server can in some embodiments be configured to update a valid security token within the security token data store on successful authentication of a document. Update of security tokens may provide historical data regarding a token so that the document authentication system can track changes or wear to a document at each presentation.

In one embodiment the security token data store may include security tokens corresponding to one or more invalid documents such as forged documents. Illustratively security tokens of invalid documents may be generated based at least in part on a known defect in such documents e.g. a typographical or graphical error lack of a security feature etc. . In other instances security tokens of invalid documents may be generated based on a known relationship between a user and a given document. For example security tokens may be generated for invalid documents recovered in the course of a criminal investigation. As a further example security tokens may be generated for documents presented by suspicious persons e.g. known criminals users with a history of presenting invalid documents etc. . In such embodiments illustrative interactions of may further include verification that the received image does not correspond to any invalid documents. For example at 5 the authentication server may request security tokens of invalid documents which may be returned from the security token data store at 6 . Thereafter at 7 the authentication server may verify that the generated security token of the currently presented document does not match or correspond to a security token of an invalid document. Accordingly verification of a security token by the authentication server may include both verification that the presented document corresponds to a previously enrolled document as well as verification that the presented document does not correspond to a known invalid document. illustrates an example of the format and content of a representative display page e.g. web page that is generated by the document authentication system to enable users to submit information within physical documents for authentication. The representative display page is presented as it may appear for example in a web browser. Illustratively the display page is generated by the user interaction server of . As shown in the display page enables an illustrative user of the document authentication system Eugene User to request authentication based on information regarding a physical document such as an identification card. The display page further includes a set of navigation links enabling Eugene User to navigate to other display pages of the document authentication system such as pages for enrolling documents de enrolling documents and viewing previously enrolled documents.

As shown in the display page enables Eugene User to submit a photograph of a physical document for authentication on the document authentication system . Specifically Eugune User may utilize input to select an image e.g. as stored within or captured by an authentication end point for transmission to the document authentication system . While images are illustratively discussed within the context of the user interface may be modified to support input of non optical information such as magnetic or radio frequency accessible information as well as optical information that may not be visible to a user such as infrared or ultraviolet information.

In the current example Eugene User has selected the file MYDOC.JPG an illustrative JPG image file created for example by scanning a physical document at an authentication end point . Eugene User s selection is reflected in text box . In addition the display page is configured to on selection of a document image display a preview of the document image for review by the user e.g. to confirm adequate alignment capture of relevant information etc. . After verification of the image preview Eugene User may select input control to request authentication of the document at the document authentication system .

While only a single image is depicted within in some embodiments multiple images scans or data captures of a document may be provided via the interface . For example a user may present an image of multiple sides of a document. As a further example a user may present multiple images of a single document each representing different visual information e.g. visible spectrum ultraviolet or infrared information . As yet a further example a user may present an image in conjunction with additional information such as a data capture of magnetic or radio frequency information encoded within a document.

While an image of a previously enrolled document is included in the user interface additional or alternative information regarding a successful enrollment may also or alternative be included. For example in one embodiment a photograph of a successfully authenticated user e.g. as captured from an enrolled document or via alternative capture may be presented within the user interface .

At block the authentication server generates a security token corresponding to the received document information. As discussed above the authentication server can generate a security token based on any portion of the received document information. Generally it is expected that the generation of a security token for authentication purposes will be similar or identical to the generation of a security token for enrollment purposes. Due to such similarity correspondence between tokens generated at different points in time can be ensured.

At block the authentication server determines an acceptable level of variance between the generated security token and a security token of a previously enrolled document. As noted above an acceptable level of variance can be based at least in part on an expected wear of the document and a duration since the document was last presented for authentication. Such an expected wear rate can be calculated based on historical data regarding the presented document or other similar documents. Accordingly calculation of an acceptable level of variance may include multiplying an expected wear rate by the difference in times associated with two security tokens e.g. a duration between the current presentation of the document and a past presentation of the document . In some embodiments acceptable variance between presentations of a document may be determined based on specific aspects of the document e.g. wear levels of specific portions of a document differences within various mathematical models of the document e.g. as derived based on various token generation algorithms or a combination thereof.

Thereafter at block the authentication server verifies whether the generated token matches any previously generated token within the acceptable variance. Illustratively verification may include retrieval of one or more previously generated tokens from a data store such as the security token data store of . If the generated token matches a previously generated token to within the acceptable variance the routine proceeds to block where a successful authentication is recorded. Illustratively block may include transmission of information to the authentication end point that authentication is successful e.g. via display page of . The routine may then continue to block where the newly generated token may be stored e.g. within the security token data store for future verification. In one embodiment the newly generated token may be stored in addition to any previously stored token such that changes to the document over time may be recorded. In another embodiment the newly generated token may replace any previous tokens within the data store such that any subsequent authentication must utilize the most recently generated token. In other embodiments block may be optionally omitted. Subsequently the routine may end at block .

In the instance that verification of the newly generated token fails at block the routine continues to block where an authentication failure is recorded. Illustratively block may include transmission of an indication of authentication failure to an authentication end point . The routine thereafter ends at block .

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be automated by a computer system that includes one or more computing devices each of which includes a memory and a processor that includes digital logic circuitry. For example the processes may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers computer processors or machines configured to execute computer instructions. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical discs and or the like. The systems and modules may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . The processes and algorithms may also be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage. In other embodiments the results of the disclosed process and process step may be stored in transitory computer storage such as a signal. The trending content service may for example be implemented by a physical server that comprises one or more computing devices.

While some examples described above may generally utilize linear techniques or algorithms to determine an acceptable level of wear between documents embodiments of this disclosure may also utilize additional or alternative algorithms. For example some embodiments of this disclosure may utilize a nearest neighbor algorithm to establish whether a presented document when compared to a previously enrolled document or a previous presentation of such an enrolled document is likely to represent a valid or invalid match. Illustratively the document authentication service may maintain a data set including a plurality of valid document pairs such that each valid document pair includes two versions of a valid enrolled document e.g. a version as originally enrolled as well as a version after experiencing authentic wear . The document authentication service can further maintain a plurality of invalid document pairs with each pair including a first version of an enrolled document as well as an invalid presentation of the document e.g. a forged version an illegible version an incorrectly submitted version etc. . Thereafter for each document presented and purported to represent a previously enrolled document the document authentication service may generate an evaluation pair comprising the presented document and the previously enrolled document. The document authentication service may then process the evaluation pair along with the set of valid and invalid document pairs to determine whether the evaluation pair most closely corresponds to a valid or invalid pair. In the instance that the evaluation pair most closely corresponds to a valid pair the document authentication service may report successful authentication. Conversely where the evaluation pair most closely corresponds to an invalid pair the document authentication service may report unsuccessful authentication. While embodiments utilizing linear or nearest neighbor algorithms have been described one skilled in the art will recognize that additional decision support or pattern matching algorithms such as decision trees or support vector machines may be utilized to distinguish between valid and invalid documents based at least in part on an expected wear of the document.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

