---

title: Computing technologies for diagnosis and therapy of language-related disorders
abstract: The present disclosure relates to computing technologies for diagnosis and therapy of language-related disorders. Such technologies enable computer-generated diagnosis and computer-generated therapy delivered over a network to at least one computing device. The diagnosis and therapy are customized for each patient through a comprehensive analysis of the patient's production and reception errors, as obtained from the patient over the network, together with a set of correct responses at each phase of evaluation and therapy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489854&OS=09489854&RS=09489854
owner: 
number: 09489854
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141029
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 898 052 filed on Oct. 31 2013 which is herein fully incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Generally the present disclosure relates to computing. More particularly the present disclosure relates to computing technologies for diagnosis and therapy of language related disorders.

In the present disclosure where a document an act and or an item of knowledge is referred to and or discussed then such reference and or discussion is not an admission that the document the act and or the item of knowledge and or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available known to the public part of common general knowledge and or otherwise constitutes prior art under the applicable statutory provisions and or is known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which the present disclosure is concerned with. Further nothing is disclaimed.

Language underlies much of human mental and communicative functioning. Consequently a disorder which hampers a part of language performance can carry broad or significant detrimental effects. Some prevalent examples of such disorder comprise a language related disorder such as dyslexia specific language impairment SLI auditory processing disorder APD aphasia or others. For instance although dyslexia is commonly considered a reading disorder individuals with such condition often experience a host of other difficulties as well. Among such difficulties are problems with speech articulation attention or memory. Accordingly some of such individuals can often struggle in school especially at great personal cost since dyslexia affects many basic language and cognitive functions. Others often drop out of school and suffer self esteem or other psycho social problems. However despite pervasiveness of such language disorders a large number of professionals such as teachers or therapists are not trained accordingly.

Such problematic state of being is further compounded by a fact that some language related disorders such as dyslexia cover a broad spectrum of deficits. Resultantly whether such disorders are even useful as a construct for research and evaluation remains questionable. Furthermore many existing diagnostic tests for language related disorders are not designed for administration to large groups while allowing for self pacing and customization according to each individual user s deficit s . Worse many providers simply stop at diagnosis and do not proceed to recommend therapy to address even most of the deficits found based on the diagnosis. At best some providers who do link therapy to diagnosis use evaluation results to select preset therapy modules intended for all users performing at a certain level of competency.

Although intervention can be useful in treating such disorders at present a state of intervention therapy for reading disability is discouraging. For example some reading disability interventions in middle schools have yielded disappointing results. Furthermore some popular methodologies of reading instruction such as Orton Gillingham approach or Orton Gillingham based approaches have not produced sufficient scientific evidence of efficacy in part or in whole.

The present disclosure at least partially addresses at least one of the above. However the present disclosure can prove useful to other technical areas. Therefore the claims should not be construed as necessarily limited to addressing any of the above.

A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the operations or the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by a data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the operations or the actions.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure includes a method comprising diagnosing a language related disorder via obtaining a first set of criteria via a first computer wherein the first set of criteria is based on a first analysis of a patient data structure against a master data structure wherein the patient data structure comprising a set of actual patient task responses wherein the master data structure comprising a set of cell generation data and a set of predicted patient task responses for a plurality of patients storing a first result in the patient data structure via the first computer wherein the first result is received from a second computer wherein the first result is based on the first computer selecting a first diagnostic shell based on the first set of criteria generating a first diagnostic cell based on the first diagnostic shell and the set of cell generation data and communicating the first diagnostic cell to the second computer obtaining a second set of criteria via the first computer wherein the second set of criteria is based on a second analysis of the patient data structure including the first result against the master data structure and determining at least one of whether to generate a second diagnostic cell and whether to select a second diagnostic shell via the first computer wherein the second diagnostic cell is based on the first diagnostic shell wherein the first diagnostic shell and the second diagnostic shell are different in task type.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure includes a system comprising a first computer facilitating a diagnosis of a language related disorder via obtaining a first set of criteria wherein the first set of criteria is based on a first analysis of a patient data structure against a master data structure wherein the patient data structure comprising a set of actual patient task responses wherein the master data structure comprising a set of cell generation data and a set of predicted patient task responses for a plurality of patients storing a first result in the patient data structure wherein the first result is received from a second computer wherein the first result is based on the first computer selecting a first diagnostic shell based on the first set of criteria generating a first diagnostic cell based on the first diagnostic shell and the set of cell generation data and communicating the first diagnostic cell to the second computer obtaining a second set of criteria wherein the second set of criteria is based on a second analysis of the patient data structure including the first result against the master data structure determining at least one of whether to generate a second diagnostic cell and whether to select a second diagnostic shell wherein the second diagnostic cell is based on the first diagnostic shell wherein the first diagnostic shell and the second diagnostic shell are different in task type.

An example embodiment of the present disclosure includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing a set of instructions for execution via a hardware processor wherein the set of instructions instructing the hardware processor to implement a method the method comprising diagnosing a language related disorder via obtaining a first set of criteria via a first computer wherein the first set of criteria is based on a first analysis of a patient data structure against a master data structure wherein the patient data structure comprising a set of actual patient task responses wherein the master data structure comprising a set of cell generation data and a set of predicted patient task responses for a plurality of patients storing a first result in the patient data structure via the first computer wherein the first result is received from a second computer wherein the first result is based on the first computer selecting a first diagnostic shell based on the first set of criteria generating a first diagnostic cell based on the first diagnostic shell and the set of cell generation data and communicating the first diagnostic cell to the second computer obtaining a second set of criteria via the first computer wherein the second set of criteria is based on a second analysis of the patient data structure including the first result against the master data structure and determining at least one of whether to generate a second diagnostic cell and whether to select a second diagnostic shell via the first computer wherein the second diagnostic cell is based on the first diagnostic shell wherein the first diagnostic shell and the second diagnostic shell are different in task type.

The present disclosure is now described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of the present disclosure are shown. The present disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as necessarily being limited to the example embodiments disclosed herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that the present disclosure is thorough and complete and fully conveys the concepts of the present disclosure to those skilled in the relevant art.

Features described with respect to certain example embodiments may be combined and sub combined in and or with various other example embodiments. Also different aspects and or elements of example embodiments as disclosed herein may be combined and sub combined in a similar manner as well. Further some example embodiments whether individually and or collectively may be components of a larger system wherein other procedures may take precedence over and or otherwise modify their application. Additionally a number of steps may be required before after and or concurrently with example embodiments as disclosed herein. Note that any and or all methods and or processes at least as disclosed herein can be at least partially performed via at least one entity in any manner.

The terminology used herein can imply direct or indirect full or partial temporary or permanent action or inaction. For example when an element is referred to as being on connected or coupled to another element then the element can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element and or intervening elements can be present including indirect and or direct variants. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Although the terms first second etc. can be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not necessarily be limited by such terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another element component region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for describing particular example embodiments and is not intended to be necessarily limiting of the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises includes and or comprising including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence and or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the present disclosure. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs. The terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized and or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Furthermore relative terms such as below lower above and upper can be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another element as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Such relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of illustrated technologies in addition to the orientation depicted in the accompanying drawings. For example if a device in the accompanying drawings were turned over then the elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. Similarly if the device in one of the figures were turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. Therefore the example terms below and lower can encompass both an orientation of above and below.

As used herein the term about and or substantially refers to a 10 variation from the nominal value term. Such variation is always included in any given value term provided herein whether or not such variation is specifically referred thereto.

If any disclosures are incorporated herein by reference and such disclosures conflict in part and or in whole with the present disclosure then to the extent of conflict and or broader disclosure and or broader definition of terms the present disclosure controls. If such disclosures conflict in part and or in whole with one another then to the extent of conflict the later dated disclosure controls.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables a computing technology for providing individualized diagnosis and therapy to patients with language related disorders. The technology enables computer generated diagnosis and computer generated therapy delivered over a network to at least one computing device. The diagnosis and therapy are customized for each patient through a comprehensive analysis of the patient s production and reception errors as obtained from the patient over the network together with a set of correct responses at each level of evaluation and therapy. The technology performs such error analysis via matching the patient s responses to a preset matrix of all possible correct and incorrect responses predicted for a patient population involved. This error analysis enables the technology to provide individual specific diagnostic and therapy cells that efficiently and comprehensively target a specific language processing deficit underlying the patient s disability. Each of the cells is a test and or a practice unit focused on an aspect of language and or language function. The technology further enables a database storing the patient s correct responses and ill formed productions based on which a learning analytics computer algorithm or a similar approach is employed to monitor and improve an efficacy of the technology in correcting language processing deficits. As the present disclosure relates to language processing the scope of the present disclosure further extends beyond language structures to communicative and or cognitive functions served by language. As scientific understanding of language related disorders and disabilities improves the present disclosure can also serve as a preventive program for populations identified to be at risk. Note that although the language related disorder comprises at least one of dyslexia specific language impairment auditory processing disorder and aphasia other language related disorders are included as well.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables a use of the patient s diagnostic results to generate the content of the patient s customized therapy. Via using a computerized diagnostic and therapy program while delivering network services to a variety of remote devices the present disclosure is both relatively efficient and cost effective in reaching large numbers of patients with disorders affecting language processing such as speech disorders dyslexia aphasia or others known to skilled artisans. Via using cloud computing and or other network technologies with comparable advantages the present disclosure offers convenience as a computerized program accessible to a plurality of mobile users at any time or day thus strengthening the program s efficacy. The present disclosure enables both running the program and saving at least some patient data on remote servers thereby expanding a number of remote devices which can be employed by patients.

The present disclosure aims to diagnose evaluate and treat language related disorders in several unique respects. First in some embodiments a diagnosis based on the present disclosure is definitive because the diagnosis is based at least in part on a deterministic model identifying a set of specific problem areas in the language functions and structures of each patient. Each level of evaluation confirms and validates the analyses of prior levels. Currently there is no comparable definitive diagnostic test for dyslexia known as dyslexia in a patient is gauged through a set of tests covering a broad spectrum of verbal and cognitive abilities since dyslexia is considered an unexpected anomaly in an otherwise fully functioning individual with an intelligence quotient IQ in a normal range. Therefore to diagnose dyslexia a psychologist presently may administer a Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children IV Integrated WISC IV Wechsler Individual Achievement Test Ill WIAT III Boston Naming Test Menyuk Syntax Comprehension Test Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning II WRAML II Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test IV together with a neuropsychological assessment and tests of executive functioning. Such tests are time consuming for certified specialists to administer and therefore are too costly for most families. Furthermore diagnoses based on such testing are typically probabilistic based on normative data. Although some segments of scientific community state currently that IQ testing is unnecessary to diagnose dyslexia the relevant field still lacks a reliable diagnostic instrument.

Second in some embodiments the present disclosure enables a creation of an individualized evaluation and therapy. The present disclosure enables a more definitive diagnosis and an efficient and effective therapy because the disclosed technology analyzes and or addresses each patient s reception and production errors at every phase of her training. The program individually customizes diagnostic and therapy cells to address the underlying language processing problems of each user. For example if a patient makes errors with the th sound during a phoneme identification test during a diagnosis phase then words with this sound are included in a word segmentation test during further diagnostic testing to confirm the problem and obtain finer details of her processing deficit. These details may include a sound environment in which such problems with occurs. The sound environment is a phonological context surrounding a particular phoneme such as a sound adjacent to that phoneme and or the position of that phoneme in a word such as word initial word medial and or word final position. For example a patient may have difficulty with the phoneme in the word final position such as tee but not in the word initial position such as ink. In contrast currently many clinicians use pre set diagnostic tests which are uniformly applied to all patients. Moreover currently used methodologies that purport to be individual based merely move users to the next pre set test and or training at a higher or same level of difficulty based on prior performance. Such pre set linear programs cannot fine tune their training regime because such programs cannot analyze the patterns of errors created by users during their performance of tasks and use the analysis results to develop subsequent therapy which the present disclosure enables. Moreover the present disclosure enables future proofing i.e. a response to newly discovered processing problems at any stage of therapy by generating new therapy cells to correct based thereon. More particularly diagnosis evaluation and or therapy are tightly integrated in the present disclosure in a non linear generative manner which is important because language related disorders tend to occur on a continuum with wide individual variation.

Third in some embodiments the present disclosure enables correction of not compensation for language processing deficits. More particularly treatments of dyslexia can generally be divided into those with corrective approaches and those with compensatory approaches. Most providers focus on compensatory techniques and thus typically accept dyslexia as a life long disability. Indeed some experts label dyslexia as a life long condition. The few providers who do attempt to correct the problem have yet to do so successfully in a way that is replicable for the population involved. While some cognitive scientists remain hopeful such goal is still elusive in the field. Further some scientists conclude that corrective programs such as Fast ForWord by Scientific Learning Corporation have failed to achieve this goal. One reason for this gap between hope and realization is clear in a context of the present disclosure corrective programs such as Fast ForWord cannot address most individual s language processing problems directly because the corrective programs are based on linear models with pre set modules. In contrast the present disclosure is non linear and responsive to each user s performance at every stage of training. Moreover such existing methods artificially modify speech input and use non speech sounds to focus on processing speed. In contrast the present disclosure does not digitally alter speech signals in such a way that the input no longer sounds like natural speech. Natural speech is an oral production of native speakers with no speech impairments and is produced spontaneously during human interaction in natural settings. Certain prosodic features of natural speech however may be exaggerated during moments of excitability or interactions with young children. Indeed the present disclosure may use as an input a live and or recorded speech of speakers who exaggerate the prosody of natural speech i.e. length pitch stress to help users hear the input clearly. The present disclosure does not focus only on auditory processing speed but analyzes the user s production and reception of all components of the language and addresses most if not all other underlying issues as well including lexical word representation and retrieval.

Fourth in some embodiments the present disclosure enables a comprehensive correction of each user s language processing problems. One reason why such type of language related disorder such as dyslexia persists is that existing diagnostic evaluation and therapy methods are not sensitive to multiple facets of each individual s language deficit. Most current methodologies at most record the patients correct responses and discard incorrect ones. In contrast the present disclosure enables analysis of the patient s incorrect responses to find patterns of errors identifying specific areas of difficulty. The present technology uses such patterns of errors to build a model of the patient s language reception and production faculties to serve as a roadmap for therapy that targets and corrects only and all the problems specific or unique to each person. In the present disclosure an error analysis is used to compare the patient s actual responses to a set of targeted correct responses. For example the error analysis may reveal that the patient has difficulty processing articles the a an based on the patient s omission and incorrect substitutions in contexts requiring the substitutions. This ongoing error analysis throughout a therapy phase allows a computer program to update therapy and evaluation continually revising as needed. These unique strengths of the program are made possible by the program s predictive feature which is built on a vast knowledge base of a set of verbal behaviors and outputs of patient populations with such language processing disorders and a typical population. Therefore the present disclosure enables an individualized data driven methodology given an absence of an effective standardized approach in reading intervention currently.

Fifth in some embodiments the present disclosure enables an application of learning analytics algorithms and other intelligent data processing techniques and or artificial intelligence AI techniques such as IBM Watson Apple Siri Google Now or Microsoft Cortana to at least one database of stored patient responses to improve the program efficacy continually. The present disclosure enables data mining of accumulated information to discover for example what types of test items are generated frequently and which evaluation units are repeated due to first attempt failures. The program uses this type of stored information to focus resources on improving content of the most frequently used types of tests and on enhancing an effectiveness of certain therapy cells as described herein. Such information is stored in a learning analytics database as described herein. For example since the program can identify which specific functional areas of the patient s brain are affected such information as collected in this database from large groups of users can be used to predict a path of progress of each new patient project her therapy schedule and or estimate duration of therapy.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables a computer program comprising a diagnostic phase and a therapy phase both of which are based on data hosted in at least one computerized database in any manner. The program interfaces with at least one database over a network. Note that at least one of the diagnostic phase and the therapy phase can occur whether in whole or in part without an intervention of a language related disorder clinician whether directly or indirectly.

The diagnostic phase which can be at least partially performed via a hardware module and or a software module comprises a deployment of a plurality of diagnostic shells and a plurality of diagnostic cells. In some embodiments at least one of the diagnostic shells can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. Each of the diagnostic shells is a procedure for a prescribed activity serving as a test of a language function. Such procedure does not contain any test items. Instead a test is delivered through a diagnostic cell which is generated via an insertion of a test item into the diagnostic shell. More particularly each diagnostic shell is a type of test while each diagnostic cell is an actual specific test. In some embodiments at least one of the diagnostic cells can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. The technology disclosed herein enables generation of diagnostic tests for each patient by placing content into the diagnostic shells. Each test thus generated is a diagnostic cell. For example if a diagnostic shell involves lexical word retrieval then the program generates a first diagnostic cell involving nouns and a second diagnostic cell involving verbs. The program generates a diagnostic cell via retrieving specific items and or a specific set of items from a first data structure such as a master matrix. Note that other types of data structures can be used as well such as a queue a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others. Further note that the first data structure can be at least one of indexed and searchable.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a sound symbol matching diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient inputting such as via a keyboard whether physical and or virtual coupled to a computer running the program and or such as via selecting from a set of options displayed on a display coupled to the computer running the program a symbol such as a letter and or a character via matching a sound heard by the patient in an audio recording such as via typing h for the heard sound h output via the program. The program then matches patient s response against a set of stored correct responses in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches the patient s incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a lexical access diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient listing words according to a specified criterion such as words that start with B by speaking within set time constraints into a microphone which is coupled to a computer running the program or by typing via a keyboard whether physical and or virtual coupled a computer running the program. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of correct responses in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then classifies the patient s incorrect responses into a set of categories such as sound based or phonological errors meaning based or semantic errors and matches the incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors in a relevant category as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a lexical retrieval diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient naming an object as an image of the object is displayed on a display coupled to a computer via speaking into a microphone which is coupled to the computer running the program or selectively activating clicking on a name from a list screens of options displayed on the display. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then classifies the patient s incorrect responses into a set of categories such as sound based or phonological errors meaning based or semantic errors and matches the incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors in a relevant category as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a syllabification diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient breaking up a word whether auditory output via a speaker coupled to a computer running the program and or visual output via a display coupled to the computer running the program. Such word break up occurs via inputting such as via typing into a keyboard whether physical or virtual coupled to the computer running the program and or speaking into a microphone coupled to the computer running the program a number of individual syllables in the word in order such as un der stand. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a word segmentation diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient breaking up a word displayed on a display coupled to a computer running the program. Such word break up occurs via speaking the word s individual sound segments in order such as k k for click into a microphone coupled to the computer running the program. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a word recognition diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient hearing a recorded sound or word and or seeing a symbol or word displayed on a display coupled to a computer running the program. From a passage displayed on the display the patient picks out any words in print with that sound and or symbol or that match the uttered word via highlighting such as via an input device for instance a keyboard or a touchpad or clicking on any of such words such as via an input device for instance a mouse. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a phoneme identification diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient picking out any word containing a certain sound from a string of output words whether visually such as via a display coupled to a computer running the program and or auditorily such as via a speaker coupled to the computer running the program. Such picking out is performed via clicking on a button whether physical or virtual on the display and or repeating the selected word into the microphone. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches the patient s incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a rhyming diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient picking out any word that rhymes response words with an output word stimulus word . The output word is output whether visually such as via a display coupled to a computer running the program and or auditory such as via a speaker coupled to the computer running the program. Such picking out is performed via clicking on a button whether physical or virtual on the display as a response word appears or via speaking a word that rhymes with the output word stimulus word into the microphone. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a morpheme recognition diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient highlighting with an input device such as a mouse coupled to a computer running the program and or typing on a keyboard coupled to the computer running the program affixes found in any word displayed on a display coupled to the computer running the program. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a rapid naming diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient reading into a microphone which is coupled to a computer running the program a word flashed on a display which is coupled to the computer running the program under set time constraints or at accelerating speeds. The word may display in any manner such as one letter at a time from left to right or some letters in different colors or forms. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses at targeted speeds and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a rapid processing diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient performing one or more of tests in at least one other diagnostic shell under set time constraints or at accelerating speeds. The program then matches the patient s response against a set of correct responses as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses at targeted speeds and other feedback as needed. The program then matches incorrect responses to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a reading fluency diagnostic shell. For example such shell involves a patient reading a passage displayed on a display which is coupled to a computer running the program into a microphone which is coupled to the computer running the program. The program then uses voice or speech recognition software or a live assistant to identify and record reading errors and gives feedback as needed. The live assistance can be contacted via at least one method such as a telephone call a teleconferencing session a chat or others. The program then classifies any caught reading errors into a set of categories such as sound based or phonological errors meaning based or semantic errors and matches the patient s errors to a set of predicted errors as stored in the data structure such as the master matrix to generate a new diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell.

Note that any cell test or cell task may be performed through a new modality or a device such as a touchscreen feature a clicker or app. Further note that any cell test or cell task may be repeated in one cell. Additionally note that any cell test or cell task may be designed as age appropriate interactive games.

The therapy phase which can be at least partially performed via a hardware module and or a software module whether distinct from the diagnosis module or as one module comprises a deployment of a plurality of therapy shells and a plurality of therapy cells. In some embodiments at least one of the therapeutic shells can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. Note that such embodiments can be identical to and or be dissimilar to the at least one of the therapeutic shells. The therapy cells are generated from the therapy shells similarly to the diagnosis cells being generated from the diagnosis shells. In some embodiments at least one of the therapeutic cells can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. Note that such embodiments can be identical to and or be dissimilar to the at least one of the therapeutic cells. Further each therapy cell contains a training unit and an evaluation unit. The training unit allows practice with a new drill while the evaluation unit assesses performance on aspects covered previously or presently. However in other embodiments the therapy cells are generated from the therapy shells dissimilarly to the diagnosis cells being generated from the diagnosis shells. Also in some embodiments at least one of the training units can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. Furthermore in some embodiments at least one of the evaluation units can be embodied via at least one of a set of instructions a function a procedure a call a routine a subroutine a vector an algorithm a heuristic a parameter a criterion an applet a library an operation a command a module a data structure for instance a matrix a queue an array a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others a class an object a node a flag an alphanumeric value a symbolic value a hash a file a driver a software application and or any combinations and or equivalents thereof. Note that such embodiments can be identical to and or be dissimilar to the at least one of the training units.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a phoneme discrimination therapy shell. For example such shell involves a computer display showing a minimal pair such as pit and bit. An audio recording plays one word at a time in random order at a specified speed. The patient selects clicks on that word or presses on an arrow key representing each word as such word is uttered before the recording plays the next word. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses in the first data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches a total of the patient s correct responses to specified criteria in the first data structure such as the master matrix to generate new therapy cells. Note that as part of the therapy phase the patient may go through an identical phoneme discrimination cell with an identical minimal pair multiple times at increasing speeds to improve her auditory processing speed.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a rapid word recognition therapy shell. For example such shell involves a computer display showing a minimal pair such as pit and bit. One of such two words is highlighted one word at a time in random order at a specified speed. The patient reads that highlighted word by speaking into a microphone as that word is highlighted before a next word is illuminated. The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses in the first data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of the patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program matches a total of the patient s correct responses to specified criteria in the first data structure such as the master matrix to generate new therapy cells. Note that as part of the therapy phase the patient may go through an identical rapid word recognition cell with an identical minimal pair multiple times at increasing speeds to improve her reading speed.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure comprise a word amplification therapy shell. For example such shell involves the program playing an audio file and or a video file of a speaker elongating and amplifying a prosodic feature of a word such as a br segment in brick or an intonational contour of variety. Alternatively such amplification is done through a live assistant functionality and or animation. The patient records her imitation of the amplified form by speaking into a microphone or by using a camera whether included in and or coupled to a computer with or without bodily gestures such as using a chopping motion to indicate syllable breaks or waving her hand high or low to signal pitch. The program matches the patient s recording against a set of stored parameters in the first data structure such as the master matrix and provides a corrective or evaluative feedback as needed such as lengthen br clusters further to create two distinct segments. The patient answers a series of questions on her articulation of the word in question such as Where is the tip of your tongue when you say the I in help The program then matches the patient s responses against a set of stored correct responses in the first data structure such as the master matrix and provides a total of patient s correct responses and other feedback as needed. The program then matches a total of patient s correct responses to specified criteria in the first data structure such as the master matrix to generate new therapy cells.

In the training unit in some embodiments each therapy cell focuses on only one specific language processing problem identified in the patient s response during diagnosis and or therapy. Each cell is designed to correct only one such problem through sufficient practice followed by an evaluation to confirm that the deficit has been addressed satisfactorily. For example if the patient has difficulty processing words with the sound then the program generates from the data structure such as the master matrix a list containing this phoneme as well as a syllable such as a real word and or a nonsense word such as ure lu or um and a sentence containing this sound such as This is urely the best ow in town. Each list is then placed into separate shells specifying different tasks. For example in one such therapy cell the patient may practice articulating such sound precisely by imitating a syllable or word containing each time she hears a prompt in a form of a sound recording of this phoneme. Alternatively she may be required to draw out this sibilant hissing sound for a specified duration as indicated by prompts on a display coupled to a computer running the program. In another embodiment the program uses voice or speech recognition software to give the patient real time feedback as to an accuracy of each of her oral responses once a baseline in terms of fundamental frequency has been set for her particular voice. For example the patient s speech signal is represented as a spectrogram voiceprint that is converted by the program into a visual cue on the display indicating a distance between her production and a target form as she tries to approximate the target. In another therapy cell the user may activate click such as via an input device for instance a keyboard whether physical or virtual a touchpad a mouse a clicker a joystick or a touchscreen on a word with such sound from a list displayed on the display. The tasks in the therapy cells may mirror those performed for the diagnostic tests. Other therapy cells may cover other reception and or production difficulties. The tasks may range from attending to phonetic features to full texts. Collectively a cluster of cells may cover complex tasks such as reading while individual cells in the cluster may focus on spelling rules and lexical acquisition vocabulary building .

In the evaluation unit in some embodiments after sufficient practice in the training unit of the therapy cell the patient proceeds to the evaluation unit of that same cell. The patient performs that same task with test items similar or identical to those in the associated training unit. The user has to pass this evaluation before moving on to a next therapy cell. A passing score is pre specified in the data structure such as the master matrix for each evaluation unit. Correct and incorrect responses are recorded in a second data structure such as a patient matrix and used for computer generation if needed of a new therapy cell in a manner as described with reference to the first data structure such as the master matrix herein. Note that other types of data structures can be used as well such as a queue a stack a deck a linked list a table a tree or others. Further note that the first data structure and the second data structure can be a subset of and or be a parent data structure. The first data structure and the second data structure can be stored in separate computerized databases whether remote or local to each other or in one computerized database. Further note that the second data structure can be at least one of indexed and searchable.

In another embodiment the evaluation unit may be separate from the training unit or more than one evaluation units may accompany a training unit in a cell or vice versa or evaluation may be incorporated into the training phase itself. Cells may also contain other types of units such as practice units such as viewing a video or webinar and different modalities such as described herein. In still another embodiment the program may administer further diagnostic testing if needed while the patient is in the therapy phase before she resumes her therapy.

In yet another embodiment the disclosed technology may employ interactive games such as to facilitate movement through at least one of the diagnosis phase and the therapy phase. More particularly a therapy cell may be in a form of an age appropriate interactive game with the game being a shell that can house different content appropriate for each user following error analysis of her responses. For example the articulation therapy cell as described herein may use at least one audio visual cue in a game to prompt the patient to approximate a target sound or word. Various game rewards or penalties may be included to encourage the patient to reach the prescribed goal. Note that such rewards which can operated based on a loyalty system can be redeemable such as for prizes cash goods services airline miles extra therapy sessions a personal diagnosis and or therapy session and so forth.

The first data structure such as the master matrix contains a set of inventories of predicted responses to assigned tests and tasks as well as information needed to generate a diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell. As described herein the first data structure can be embodied in a computerized database whether in whole or in part. In other embodiments the first data structure is embodied among a plurality of databases whether similar or dissimilar to each other such as a relational database or a non relational database whether hosted remotely and or locally from each other in any manner whether directly and or indirectly. The first data structure is hosted residing remotely such as on a server computer as described herein instead of a patient s computer thus allowing more flexibility for end users such as patients while providing for more efficient content updates due to such residence hosting. However in other embodiments the first data structure can be hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly. Such configuration can enable a periodic update such as weekly or monthly whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly from a central data repository such as a computerized database. For example in such configuration the first data structure hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part is at least a partial copy of the first data structure hosted residing remotely from the patient s computer.

In some embodiments the first data structure contains most if not all predicted responses and feeds data to a computer as described herein such as when the first data structure is a database. The computer is configured to direct generate cell content and shells based on such data feed. The first data structure contains inventories of responses predicted to be made by a given population with language processing problems while performing a task based on a diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell according to the program. If desired then the computer initially classifies the incorrect responses into categories such as phonological semantic morphological or lexical and sub classifies such as morphological affixes prefixes in visual depictions such as graphs for instance a mathematical object comprising a vertex and or an arc for storage in the first data structure. The first data structure can also contain phonemes a lexicon vocabulary phrasal and or sentence patterns as well as other components of a target language needed to generate a diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell. For example the target language may be any natural language i.e. a first language spoken by any group of people in any world region .

For example as shown and described in reference to each stimulus item in a diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell is represented as a node on a graph with connected vertices at a next lower level representing most if not all possible correct and incorrect responses predicted to be made by a population involved such as patients with aphasia. The program matches a patient s incorrect response to an identical predicted error node in the relevant graph and proceeds down the graph to locate an appropriate set of test and or practice items to generate a next diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell. Thus for an example illustrated in a stimulus item in the word segmentation diagnostic test is a word be. In such test the patient has to segment the word into its individual sounds. The corresponding node in the first data structure such as the master matrix for this stimulus item is connected to its correct response bi and predicted incorrect responses. The incorrect responses include most if not all possible instances predicted by knowledge of principles and rules of natural languages linguistics processes underlying language acquisition or development as well as processes governing exceptional languages i.e. language of speakers outside a typical population such as individuals with communicative disorders . In the case of the stimulus word be the predicted incorrect responses include instances whereby users omit the consonant b or replace this consonant or the vowel i . Knowledge from a set of fields at least identified above helps to predict that say if b is replaced then a likely substituted phoneme is p or d due to their phonetic similarity. The graph also allows for other possible substitutions. Further a patient s particular incorrect response such as no b leads to a particular computer operation Generate words with b . The words generated may be real words in the lexicon or nonsense words with the desired sound combinations. When the patient s incorrect response is a substitution error such as p for b at least one pair of words with the crucial contrast are computer generated such as minimal pair pit pt v. bit bt . If a patient s response contains more than one error then most if not all the affected nodes on the graph are activated which means that the patient has to practice with more than one list of words in the therapy phase. When this list of words is placed in the listen and repeat therapy shell then the patient performs a required task by going through each word in such list one by one. Additionally as a full test usually contains several stimulus items such test may yield more than one incorrect response from a patient. Thus several graphs may be activated in the first data structure such as the master matrix from one test output. For example the rapid naming diagnostic test may yield errors involving several words. In such a case a computer implemented priority ranking algorithm determines which set of test or practice items to present to the patient next.

The second data structure such as the patient matrix is uniquely associated with each patient. As described herein the second data structure can be embodied in a computerized database whether in whole or in part. In other embodiments the second data structure is embodied among a plurality of databases whether similar or dissimilar to each other such as a relational database or a non relational database whether hosted remotely and or locally from each other in any manner whether directly and or indirectly. The second data structure is hosted residing remotely such as on a server computer as described herein instead of a patient s computer thus allowing more flexibility for end users such as patients while providing for more efficient content updates due to such residence hosting. However note that the server computer can host the first data structure and the second data structure or the first data structure and the second data structure are hosted reside on different server computers as described herein. Further note that in other embodiments the second data structure can be hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly. Such configuration can enable a periodic update such as weekly or monthly whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly from a central data repository such as a computerized database. For example in such configuration the second data structure hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part is at least a partial copy of the second data structure hosted residing remotely from the patient s computer. In further embodiments the first data structure and the second data structure are one data structure which can be hosted in whole or in part in any way as described herein with reference to at least one of the first data structure and the second data structure individually.

The second data structure stores patient personal information such as a user identification ID a name a domicile address a background whether personal medical sociological ethnic racial or others as well as her responses to diagnostic and evaluation tests. Furthermore the second data structure can be updated dynamically and automatically via a computer whether via a service requester segment as described herein or via a service provider segment as described herein. Such update can occur after each new response from that patient is filtered through the first data structure via the computer. Further the second data structure contains an inventory of errors and correct responses produced by a particular patient while performing a task via a diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell in the program. The patient s errors are classified via the computer into categories such as phonological semantic morphological or lexical and sub classified such as morphological affixes prefixes in graphs in the manner of the first data structure such as the master matrix.

When a patient s incorrect response is located on a node on one of the graphs in the first data structure such as the master matrix the connected vertices at the next lower level of this graph and a computer implemented priority ranking algorithm determine a next diagnostic cell and or a therapy cell for this patient. The second data structure such as the patient matrix is continually updated throughout therapy as the patient makes new errors and or provides all correct responses for a previously identified problem. The second data structure such as the patient matrix is used to track the patient s progress and the patient may access her progress report in a suitable format such as a spreadsheet document a visual depiction document a word processor document or any combinations thereof in real time. Pertinent information in the second data structure such as the patient matrix is sent to the learning analytics database for analysis and monitoring of an efficiency of the program in whole or in part.

The technology is further enabled via a database storing the patient s correct responses and ill formed productions based on which a learning analytics computer algorithm or a similar approach is employed to monitor and improve an efficacy of the technology in correcting language processing deficits. For example the program s efficacy is enhanced by mining stored patient data using learning analytics or similar approaches such as via the second data structure s which contains a lot of useful information such as patient demographics common types of errors for instance phonological morphological lexical semantic or syntactic errors success rates of different therapy cells and so forth. Efficient data management and retrieval of individual and group information by specified criteria yield useful insight for research and therapy enhancement. Furthermore the learning analytics data can be stored in a computerized database as described herein with respect to at least one of the first data structure and the second data structure or in another computerized database whether in whole or in part. In other embodiments the learning analytics data is embodied among a plurality of databases whether similar or dissimilar to each other such as a relational database or a non relational database whether hosted remotely and or locally from each other in any manner whether directly and or indirectly. The learning analytics data is hosted residing remotely such as on a server computer as described herein instead of a patient s computer thus allowing more flexibility for end users such as patients while providing for more efficient content updates due to such residence hosting. However note that the server computer can host the learning analytics data the first data structure and the second data structure or the learning analytics data the first data structure and the second data structure are hosted reside on different server computers as described herein. Further note that in other embodiments the learning analytics data can be hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly. Such configuration can enable a periodic update such as weekly or monthly whether in whole or in part whether directly and or indirectly from a central data repository such as a computerized database. For example in such configuration the learning analytics data hosted residing locally on the patient s computer whether in whole or in part is at least a partial copy of the learning analytics data hosted residing remotely from the patient s computer. In further embodiments the learning analytics data the first data structure and the second data structure are one data structure which can be hosted in whole or in part in any way as described herein with reference to at least one of the learning analytics data the first data structure and the second data structure individually.

The learning analytics database can be employed in a backend computer infrastructure that collects and stores most if not all results of patient performance history including game play. A computer implemented learning analytics algorithm running on the backend infrastructure analyzes such results to determine themes such as a common performance problem or an error a frequency of live assistance invoked a frequency of a type of a game played and or a task performed a type of game or a task prone to repeated failures a time of play by time of day and a day of a week a duration of continuous play an interval between plays a frequency with which the patient requested help for assistance and so forth. Based on such algorithm analysis changes to the first data structure such as the master matrix may be implemented to help enhance a speed and or an efficiency of patients progress. Such changes may be implemented with a rapid reboot of a server computer to bring new changes to all patients immediately. Alternatively such changes may be implemented live in real time without a reboot of the server computer.

Data stored in the learning analytics database may be analyzed by a computer algorithm running on the backend computer infrastructure or viewed by themes or diagrams by a system administrator to identify a trend and or troubleshoot quickly. Such algorithm may be designed to remotely alert the system administrator of trouble spots via a message such as an email a text a chat a sound a vibration a visual cue or others allowing for more rapid or real time changes to at least one of the service provider or service requester technologies described herein. Similar mechanisms may be deployed to identify particular patients needing immediate or extra attention.

In some embodiments the disclosed technology enables a computer implemented error analysis algorithm. More particularly the program performs the error analysis algorithm via processing a test output through the first data structure against a set of pre specified predicted patient responses. For example for a question asking a patient to identify an affix in a word hunter the predicted responses comprise 1 er correct 2 hunt incorrect 3 none incorrect 4 hunter incorrect or 5 other incorrect . Therefore the error analysis algorithm entails an analysis of learners errors using knowledge of structures and processes principles and rules of natural languages to identify patterns of errors and trace sources of errors as problems arise. As described herein such error analysis algorithm is used to compare the patient s actual responses to a set of targeted correct responses. For example an error analysis of a patient s productions may reveal that she consistently fails to recognize common affixes such as er hunt or edit and tion act . In this case a result of the analysis algorithm is based at least in part on a word formation process morphological but such error analysis can cover any component of language phonological semantic lexical syntactic and can be based on any defined dimension. Note that the error analysis algorithm can be run on the backend computer infrastructure. Further note that the error analysis algorithm is adopted from a field of second language acquisition.

In some embodiments the disclosed technology enables a computer implemented priority ranking algorithm. More particularly most if not all category and or item in the first data structure such as the master matrix is assigned a weighted value based on a frequency of occurrence in a language a communicative function a significance of impact from its omission or ill formedness and so forth. This value determines which diagnostic or therapy item or cell will be presented next. The priority ranking algorithm would select the article the over the adjective unimportant since the former occurs more frequently than the latter. Note that the priority ranking algorithm can be run on the backend computer infrastructure.

In some embodiments the disclosed technology enables a live assistant functionality. More particularly if a patient is unable to pass a cell s evaluation test after several tries such as two or if the patient produces responses that are not predicted via a content of the first data structure then a live assistant may step in to help the patient proceed to a next stage. For example such live assistance takes a form of an automated program with an advanced speech recognition a human computer interaction and or a communicative capability. Alternatively such live assistance takes a form of a communication with a live human operator such as in a call center. For example such communication can comprise a telephone communication a teleconference a chat or a personal visit such as when the disclosed technology is embodied in an office lab setting.

In some embodiments for ease of accessibility the present disclosure enables patient diagnosis and or patient therapy from an internet based website or an online portal and runs the program on a cloud server. However such delivery method can be complemented and or supplemented in whole or in part via a mobile app as described herein. One convenience of such deployment a relatively simple maintenance of a patient s profile and allowance of an easy access to her diagnosis and or therapy program through a network. Note that different apps may be developed for different therapy shells tasks . Further note that such deployment may allow a temporary halt and resumption of at least one of diagnosis and therapy. Therefore such functionality can be utilized over periods of time such as over several months.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables multiple modalities. More particularly diagnostic and or therapy cells may use any or a combination of modalities including video audio text graphics animation web conferencing or others enabled by new technologies. Patient may employ electronic and or physical supports such as self facing or rear facing cameras during speech articulation practices and other future technologies. The program may also employ voice and or speech recognition software to train as well as to receive and analyze input from patients. Biometric monitoring and feedback may be incorporated to increase the program s sensitivity to patients performance and responses and thus the program s efficacy. This may be particularly useful for those with attention deficits. Sensing systems may be installed with the program to collect biometric data which may include eye gaze to monitor focus of attention pulse and blinking rates to monitor stress and mental fatigue and lip movements to monitor articulation . Such sensors may provide biometric feedback to the program as well as to the patient. When the patient receives such information as instantaneous feedback the program especially if delivered unobtrusively on a wearable or other portable device can become seamlessly integrated into her daily life. In this embodiment the program may provide real time corrections to her language errors as she commits them in her daily functions.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables a performance trail patient s performance history. More particularly the program not only stores the patient s correct and incorrect responses in the second data structure such as the patient matrix but displays in an easily accessible format her scores from all previously completed diagnostic and therapy cells. The patient s progress report may be updated continually as she completes each cell. The program may display a comparison of the patient s performance history and the projected prescribed path of development. This visual display encourages the patient to keep working towards her prescribed goal a satisfactory removal of all language processing problems identified.

In some embodiments the present disclosure enables a reward system. More particularly a diagnostic test an evaluation test and or a training practice may be delivered as age appropriate interactive games. The patient s performance for each part may be scored and converted to reward points that the patient can trade for virtual or physical objects earned time for multiplayer games or such like or other forms of incentives to motivate the patient to put in the effort to complete her training satisfactorily. Note that such rewards which can be operated based on a loyalty system can be redeemable such as for prizes cash goods services airline miles extra therapy sessions personal diagnosis and or therapy session and so forth.

The network includes a plurality of nodes such as a collection of computers and or other hardware interconnected via a plurality of communication channels which allow for sharing of resources and or information. Such interconnection can be direct and or indirect. The network can be wired and or wireless. The network can allow for communication over short and or long distances whether encrypted and or unencrypted. The network can operate via at least one network protocol such as Ethernet a Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP and so forth. The network can have any scale such as a personal area network a local area network a home area network a storage area network a campus area network a backbone network a metropolitan area network a wide area network an enterprise private network a virtual private network a virtual network a satellite network a computer cloud network an internetwork a cellular network and so forth. The network can be and or include an intranet and or an extranet. The network can be and or include Internet. The network can include other networks and or allow for communication with other networks whether sub networks and or distinct networks whether identical and or different from the network . The network can include hardware such as a computer a network interface card a repeater a hub a bridge a switch an extender and or a firewall whether hardware based and or software based. The network can be operated directly and or indirectly by and or on behalf of one and or more entities irrespective of any relation to contents of the present disclosure.

The server can be hardware based and or software based. The server is and or is hosted on whether directly and or indirectly a server computer whether stationary or mobile such as a kiosk a workstation a vehicle whether land marine or aerial a desktop a laptop a tablet a mobile phone a mainframe a supercomputer a server farm and so forth. The server computer can be touchscreen enabled and or non touchscreen. The server computer can include and or be a part of another computer system and or a cloud computing network. The server computer can run any type of operating system OS such as iOS Windows Android Unix Linux and or others. The server computer can include and or be coupled to whether directly and or indirectly an input device such as a mouse a keyboard a camera whether forward facing and or back facing an accelerometer a touchscreen a biometric reader a clicker and or a microphone. The server computer can include and or be coupled to whether directly and or indirectly an output device such as a display a speaker a headphone a joystick a videogame controller a vibrator and or a printer. In some embodiments the input device and the output device can be embodied in one unit. The server computer can include circuitry for global positioning determination such as via a global positioning system GPS a signal triangulation system and so forth. The server computer can be equipped with near field communication NFC circuitry. The server computer can host run and or be coupled to whether directly and or indirectly a database such as a relational database or a non relational database which can feed data to the server whether directly and or indirectly.

The server via the server computer is in communication with the network such as directly and or indirectly selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted wired and or wireless via contact and or contactless. Such communication can be via a software application a software module a mobile app a browser a browser extension an OS and or any combination thereof. For example such communication can be via a common framework application programming interface API such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS .

The client can be hardware based and or software based. The client is and or is hosted on whether directly and or indirectly a patient computer whether stationary or mobile such as a terminal a kiosk a workstation a vehicle whether land marine or aerial a desktop a laptop a tablet a mobile phone a mainframe a supercomputer a server farm and so forth. The patient computer can be touchscreen enabled and or non touchscreen. The patient computer can include and or be a part of another computer system and or cloud computing network. The patient computer can run any type of OS such as iOS Windows Android Unix Linux and or others. The patient computer can include and or be coupled to an input device such as a mouse a keyboard a camera whether forward facing and or back facing an accelerometer a touchscreen a biometric reader a clicker and or a microphone and or an output device such as a display a speaker a headphone a joystick a videogame controller a vibrator and or a printer. In some embodiments the input device and the output device can be embodied in one unit. The patient computer can include circuitry for global positioning determination such as via a GPS a signal triangulation system and so forth. The patient computer can be equipped with NFC circuitry. The patient computer can host run and or be coupled to whether directly and or indirectly a database such as a relational database or a non relational database which can feed data to the patient whether directly and or indirectly.

The client via the patient computer is in communication with network such as directly and or indirectly selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted wired and or wireless via contact and or contactless. Such communication can be via a software application a software module a mobile app a browser a browser extension an OS and or any combination thereof. For example such communication can be via a common framework API such as HTTPS.

In other embodiments the server and the client can also directly communicate with each other such as when hosted in one system or when in local proximity to each other such as via a short range wireless communication protocol such as infrared or Bluetooth . Such direct communication can be selective and or unselective encrypted and or unencrypted wired and or wireless via contact and or contactless. Since many of the clients can initiate sessions with the server relatively simultaneously in some embodiments the server employs load balancing technologies and or failover technologies for operational efficiency continuity and or redundancy.

Note that other computing models are possible as well. For example such models can comprise decentralized computing such as peer to peer P2P for instance Bit Torrent or distributed computing such as via a computer cluster where a set of networked computers works together such that the computer can be viewed as a single system.

Note that the service provider segment can comprise more than one server computer and or more than one database whether structurally and or functionally identical and or different from each other whether communicatively coupled to each other and or not communicatively coupled to each other such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted via contact and or contactless whether synchronous and or asynchronous whether controlled via a single entity and or via a plurality of entities irrespective of any relation to contents of the present disclosure. Likewise note that the service requester segment can comprise less than five and or more than five computers whether structurally and or functionally identical and or different from each other whether communicatively coupled to each other and or not communicatively coupled to each other such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted via contact and or contactless whether synchronous and or asynchronous whether controlled via a single entity and or via a plurality of entities irrespective of any relation to contents of the present disclosure.

The computer is in communication with the network such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted via contact and or contactless whether synchronous and or asynchronous. The computer facilitates such communication via a hardware unit such as a hardware component of the computer for example a network card. However in other embodiments the computer facilitates such communication via a software unit such as a software application a software module a mobile app a browser a browser extension an OS and or any combination thereof. For example such communication can be via a common framework API such as HTTPS. Due to a size of the service requester segment the computer employs load balancing technologies and or failover technologies for operational efficiency continuity and or redundancy.

The computer is operably coupled to the database such that the computer is in communication with the database such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted. The computer facilitates such communication via a hardware unit as a hardware component of the computer for example a network card. However in other embodiments the computer facilitates such communication via a software unit such as a software application a software module a mobile app a browser a browser extension an OS and or any combination thereof. For example such communication can be via a common framework API such as HTTPS employed via a database management system DBMS hosted on the computer such as MySQL Oracle or other suitable systems. Also note that the computer can host the database locally and or access the database remotely. Alternatively the computer and the database can be in one locale yet distinctly embodied. Further note that the computer can host and or be operably coupled to more than one database such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted via contact and or contactless whether synchronous and or asynchronous. Also note that the database can be hosted on more than one computer such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted via contact and or contactless whether synchronous and or asynchronous.

The database comprises an organized collection of data. The data can be of any type whether a primitive type such as a Boolean and or a character a composite type such as an array and or a union and or an abstract data type such as a list a queue a deck a stack a string a tree and or a graph. The data can be organized of any structure such as a linear structure such as an array a map a table a matrix a vector and or a list a tree structure such as a tree a pagoda a treap a heap and or a trie a hash structure such as a table a list and or a filter a graph structure such as a graph a matrix a stack and or a diagram and or any combinations of any thereof. The organized collection of data can contain content such as patient information language related disorder shell information language related disorder cell information patient matrix information master matrix information analytics information and or other relevant information. The database is accessed via the computer such as via the DBMS running on the computer . The database is a relational database but other database models are possible such as post relational. Note that although the computer and the database are distinctly positioned from each other in other embodiments the computer hosts the database . Note that the computer and the database are operated via a single actor but in other embodiments the computer and the database are operated via different actors. Further note that the database can be in communication with the network such that the computer communicates with the database via the network .

The workstation computer the tablet computer the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone are in communication with the network such as directly and or indirectly wired and or wireless selectively and or unselectively encrypted and or unencrypted synchronous and or asynchronous on demand and or non on demand. In any combinatory manner the workstation computer the tablet computer the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone facilitate such communication via a hardware unit such as a hardware component of the workstation computer the tablet the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone for example a transceiver and or a network card. In other embodiments the workstation computer the tablet computer the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone facilitate such communication via a software unit such as a software application a software module a mobile app a browser a browser extension an OS and or any combination thereof. For example such communication can be via a common framework API such as HTTPS. Further note that other types of service requesters are possible such as a standalone camera an automated teller machine ATM a crypto currency miner a kiosk a terminal a wearable computer such as an eyewear computer an implanted computer or other suitable computing devices.

Note that at least two of the workstation computer the tablet computer the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone can communicate via the network concurrently and or non concurrently in an identical manner and or in a different matter. Further note that the workstation computer the tablet computer the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone are operated via different actors but in other embodiments at least two of the workstation computer the tablet the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone are operated via a single actor.

The service provider segment serves data via the network to the service requester segment. Such serving can be via push technology and or pull technology. For example the push technology enables request initiation via the service provider segment such as via the computer . Resultantly periodically updateable information can be pushed via the computer such as via synchronous conferencing messaging and or file distribution onto the service requester segment. Also for example the pull technology enables request initiation via the service requester segment such as via the mobile phone . Resultantly information can be pulled via the mobile phone such as via web browsing and or web feeding from the service provider segment.

In one mode of operation language related disorder diagnosis data and or therapy data based thereon is provided via the service provider segment to the service requester segment via the network . For example the computer feeds the diagnosis data and or the therapy data from the database onto the mobile phone on demand as operated via a language related disorder patient. The computer receives patient responses from the mobile phone and processes such responses dynamically and iteratively for more granular diagnosis and or therapy. An operator of the computer and or the database can control how such feeding takes place such as via patient subscription and or update the diagnosis data and or the therapy data such as based on data obtained iteratively from other language related disorder patients dynamically.

The processor comprises a hardware processor such as a multicore processor. For example the processor comprises a central processing unit CPU .

The memory comprises a computer readable storage medium which can be non transitory. The medium stores a plurality of computer readable instructions such as a software application for execution via the processor . The instructions instruct the processor to facilitate performance of a method for diagnosis and or therapy of language related disorder as described herein. Some examples of the memory comprise a volatile memory unit such as random access memory RAM or a non volatile memory unit such as a hard disk drive or a read only memory ROM . For example the memory comprises flash memory. The memory is in wired communication with the processor . Also for example the memory stores a plurality of computer readable instructions such as a plurality of instruction sets for operating at least one of the network communication unit the camera the display the speaker the geolocating unit the graphics unit the microphone or other input and or output units.

The network communication unit comprises a network interface controller for computer network communication whether wired or wireless direct or indirect. For example the network communication unit comprises hardware for computer networking communication based on at least one standard selected from a set of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802 standards such as an IEEE 802.11 standard. For instance the network communication unit comprises a wireless network card operative according to a IEEE 802.11 g standard. The network communication unit is in wired communication with the processor .

The camera comprises a lens for image capturing such as a photo and or a video. The camera stores captured visual information on the memory which can be in a compressed format or an uncompressed format. The camera can allow image display on the display such as before during and or after image capture. The camera can comprise a flash illumination unit. The camera can allow for zooming whether optical or software based. The camera is in wired communication with the processor . The camera can also be remotely coupled to the processor such as wirelessly.

The display comprises an area for displaying visual and or tactile information. The display comprises at least one of an electronic visual display a flat panel display a liquid crystal display LCD and a volumetric display. For example the display comprises a touch enabled computer monitor. The display is in wired communication with the processor . The display can also be remotely coupled to the processor such as wirelessly.

The speaker comprises a loudspeaker such as an electroacoustic transducer providing sound responsive to an electrical audio signal input. For example the speaker is a dynamic speaker. The speaker is in wired communication with the processor . The speaker can also be remotely coupled to the processor such as wirelessly.

The geolocating unit comprises a GPS receiver. The geolocating unit is in communication with the processor . Note that other types of geolocation are possible such as via cell site signal triangulation. The geolocating unit can also be remotely coupled to the processor such as wirelessly.

The graphics unit comprises a graphics processing unit GPU for image processing. The graphics unit is a graphics dedicated unit but in other embodiments the processor is integrated with the graphics unit . For example the graphics unit comprises a video card. The graphics unit is in wired communication with the processing unit .

The microphone comprises an acoustic to electric transducer sensor operative to convert sound in air into an electrical signal for subsequent use such as output via the speaker . The microphone can be electromagnetic induction based capacitance change based or piezoelectric based. The microphone can be coupled to a preamplifier upstream from an audio power amplifier. For example the microphone is a dynamic microphone. The microphone can also be remotely coupled to the processor such as wirelessly.

The power source powers the computer . The power source comprises at least one of an onboard rechargeable battery such as a lithium ion battery and an onboard renewable energy source such as a photovoltaic cell a wind turbine and or a hydropower turbine. Note that such power can be via mains electricity such as via a power cable.

Note that the computer can also include and or be operably coupled to at least one input device such as a computer keyboard a computer mouse a touchpad a clicker a scanner a fax a biometric reader a pointer or other suitable input devices. Likewise the computer can include and or be operably coupled to at least one output device such as a printer a projector or other suitable output devices. Further at least one of the computer the workstation computer the tablet the desktop computer the laptop computer and the mobile phone can be built according to the computer schematic.

Further Dxyis followed by Dxyand Dxy. This does not necessarily mean that Dxy Dxy and Dxyare pre defined cells with pre defined content provided in a pre defined order. Rather such cells are generated following an analysis of each patient s results. As such the process may deploy a different set of diagnostic cells from that same diagnostic shell for another patient a different sequence of those same set of cells or skip such shell altogether depending on an at least one underlying language problem identified.

Further the process enables a generation of the diagnostic cells Dxy Dxy Dxy all together but the patient takes such tests consecutively in an order dynamically set via the first data structure such as the master matrix. The patient s responses based on the cells enable an automatic selection of the diagnostic shell Dx to generate a next test in the cell Dxy . The patient s responses to the cell Dxy leads to an automatic generation of yet another cell Dxy for further testing. The patient s results for the cell Dxy then enables the process to automatically return to selecting the shell again for further more granular testing but this time with new content retrieved from the first data structure such as the master matrix to generate the diagnostic cell Dxy . Based on her results the patient then proceeds to the next diagnostic shell Dx and then the cell Dxy in an order dynamically set via the first data structure such as the master matrix.

As shown in the process captures a portion of the therapy phase for one patient. Such process can be computer implemented via at least one of the service provider segment and the service requester segment. At a stage of the process illustrated the therapy cell TxyExy is administered such as via a computer architecture in . To proceed to a next cell the patient is obliged to pass an evaluation contained in this cell according to a criteria specified by the first data structure such as the master matrix. If the patient passes then the process continues onto a generation of a next cell TxyExy from the shell TxExvia again retrieving selected content from the first data structure such as the master matrix. However if the patient fails to pass the evaluation of cell TxyExy then the process as per block generates a practice cell Pxy to help the patient build up a needed skill to pass. Repeated failures entail more practice cells Pxy or other therapy cells TxyExy . Other therapy cells TxyExy may be deployed to help this patient build up the skill needed to pass the original therapy cell TxyExy . If the patient still fails to pass that same cell TxyExyafter several attempts such as two then live assistance functionality as described herein is invoked.

The patient proceeds to the generated therapy cell TxyExy upon successfully performing tasks based on the cell as evaluated against the second data structure such as the patient matrix. Similarly if the patient passes then the patient proceeds to the next cell generated which is cell . However if the patient fails then a similar process as with a cycle involving the cell TxyExy occurs. However different cycles of failures with different cells may entail different types of cells and different sequences of their presentation. For example in with the first cycle of failures involving cell TxyExy two practice cells Pxy Pxy were administered before another therapy cell TxyExy . Although the process may deploy similar or different types of practice cells to aid the patient depending on the problems identified. with the second cycle of failures involving cell TxyExy as per block a therapy cell TxyExy was administered before practice cells. However the cell is administered upon successful passing of a task based on the cell . In some cases as appropriate at least some answers are provided before the patient attempts a same evaluation one last time prior to proceeding to the next therapy cell. However in other cases instructional videos or other aids may be provided following failed attempts as appropriate. Further as the process goes on the patient s responses are recorded in the second data structure such as the patient matrix as the patient goes through new therapy cells. Based on such recordation the process enables a modification and augmentation of the patient s therapy continually updating a type and an order of cells to activate next based on information from the first data structure such as the master matrix. At least one of the diagnostic phase and the therapy phase is thus based on a responsive generative model for a creation of an individualized diagnostic and therapy cells for each patient.

In block the system obtains first filtering data such as via comparing analyzing or filtering the second data structure such as the patient matrix against the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system selects a diagnostic shell based at least in part on the first filtering data from block .

In block the system generates a diagnostic cell based at least in part on the diagnostic shell from block .

In block the system runs the diagnostic cell selected in block . Such run can comprise interfacing with the patient computer such as via network communication with the patient computer . The patient computer runs the diagnostic cell to receive patient input.

In block the system stores a result of the diagnostic cell in the second data structure such as the patient matrix. Such storage which can be dynamic is based at least in part on receiving at least some of the patient input from the patient computer whether in real time or in a delayed manner.

In block the system stores statistics in an analytics data structure such as a computerized database. Such storage which can be dynamic is based at least in part on obtaining the statistics from the result as stored in the second data structure. Alternatively the statistics can be obtained based at least in part on receiving at least some of the patient input from the patient computer whether in real time or in a delayed manner.

In block the system obtains second filtering data such as via comparing analyzing or filtering the second data structure such as the patient matrix as updated in block against the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system analyzes patient performance based at least in part on the second filtering data from block . Such analysis enables a determination if another diagnostic cell using that same shell from block is needed. Further such analysis is based at least in part on factors as described herein.

In block the system makes a decision as to whether a generation of a next diagnostic cell should take place. If yes the process continues onto block . Otherwise the process continues onto block .

In block the system makes a decision as to whether a selection of a next diagnostic shell should take place. If yes the process continues onto block . Otherwise the process continues onto block .

In block the system determines that patient diagnosis is complete. Such determination can comprise an output to the patient computer . For example such output can be visual auditory vibratory or other.

In block the system generates a next diagnostic cell based at least in part on the diagnostic shell from block . Note that a content of such cell is generated based on the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system selects a next diagnostic shell for activation. Note that this process goes through as many cycles as needed until information from the first data structure and the second data structure indicates that the diagnostic testing phase is complete for this patient where the process can optionally continue onto the therapy phase. Further note that since most steps are performed via the system the patient computer is light on resources for other background tasks. Note that the diagnosis phase can be paused or resumed via the patient at any time.

In block the system obtains first filtering data such as via comparing analyzing or filtering the second data structure such as the patient matrix against the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system selects a therapy shell based at least in part on the first filtering data from block .

In block the system generates a therapy cell based at least in part on the therapy shell from block .

In block the system runs the therapy cell selected in block . Such run can comprise interfacing with the patient computer such as via network communication with the patient computer . The patient computer runs the therapy cell to receive patient input. For example such therapy cell can be TxyExy.

In block the system stores a result of the therapy cell in the second data structure such as the patient matrix. Such storage which can be dynamic is based at least in part on receiving at least some of the patient input from the patient computer whether in real time or in a delayed manner.

In block the system stores statistics in an analytics data structure such as a computerized database. Such storage which can be dynamic is based at least in part on obtaining the statistics from the result as stored in the second data structure. Alternatively the statistics can be obtained based at least in part on receiving at least some of the patient input from the patient computer whether in real time or in a delayed manner.

In block the system obtains second filtering data such as via comparing analyzing or filtering the second data structure such as the patient matrix as updated in block against the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system analyzes patient performance based at least in part on the second filtering data from block . Such analysis enables a determination if another therapy cell using that same shell from block is needed. Further such analysis is based at least in part on factors as described herein. Note that both new and previous information entered into the second data structure is compared analyzed or filtered through the first data structure to determine if another therapy cell using same shell TxEx as per block is needed.

In block the system makes a decision as to whether a generation of a next therapy cell should take place. If yes the process continues onto block . Otherwise the process continues onto block .

In block the system makes a decision as to whether a selection of a next therapy shell should take place. If yes the process continues onto block . Otherwise the process continues onto block .

In block the system generates a next therapy cell based at least in part on the therapy shell from block . Note that a content of such cell is generated based on the first data structure such as the master matrix.

In block the system selects a next therapy shell for activation. Note that this process goes through as many cycles as needed until information from the first data structure and the second data structure indicates that the therapy phase is complete for this patient. Further note that since most steps are performed via the system the patient computer is light on resources for other background tasks.

In block the system determines that patient therapy is complete at least for one therapy session or one therapy act. Such determination can comprise an output to the patient computer . For example such output can be visual auditory vibratory or other. Note that the therapy phase can be paused or resumed via the patient at any time.

In one mode of operation such as based on the computing architecture of the diagnostic phase is structured to provide a comprehensive profile of the patient s ability to process linguistic information as a speaker listener reader and writer. The underlying structure is designed to allow the patient to move methodically through most if not all language components important in performing such roles with built in mechanisms to confirm evaluation accuracy. For example the process starts with the phoneme identification diagnostic shell. The first phoneme identification diagnostic cell generated cell A tests patient s ability to distinguish p from b in the word medial position such as shown in . The phonemes p and b are distinguished from each other by a phonetic feature of voicing. Pairs of words that are distinguished by just one phonetic feature are called minimal pairs such as staple and stable. When the phoneme identification diagnostic cell A is administered with the p b contrast the patient hears strings of words containing p or b in a random order such as staple clamber or flappy. The patient is asked to pick out only words that have p . If the patient makes no error in this cell then the process generates a next cell B with the pr br contrast in word initial position such as im or im. If the patient makes no error again then the process proceeds onto a next phonemic contrast in a sequence which is t d . If the patient commits errors in cell B then the process generates cells D F to test her ability to distinguish p b in the word initial position and the word final position as well as confirm at least one previous error in word medial position.

If the patient commits errors in cell A then the process generates a next cell C with the p b contrast in a word medial position again to confirm the errors in cell A. From cell C if the patient commits no error then the process enables generation of cell G to test her ability to distinguish pr br in the word initial position. Cells B and G both test the same pr br contrast in word initial position but are labeled differently to indicate the patient s different paths through the process and to underscore the fact that the process generates each cell with different content because the if patient commits error in cell C then the process first generates cells H and I containing the p b contrast in the word initial and the word final positions before generating cell J with the pr br contrast in the word initial position. One reason for presenting the word medial contrast before word initial is because the former is expected to be more difficult to detect than the latter. Therefore if the patient can perform a harder task first then an easier task need not necessarily be administered.

Other contrasts relevant to the phoneme p can be included in the same manner as described above such as p t ip ip p f it it p k ick ick and p v. kee key . Consonant clusters such as pl bl ume oom pr tr ick ick spl sl ay ay both in word initial and word final positions can similarly be incorporated into the diagnostic phase through more diagnostic cells.

Note that phoneme identification tasks may incorporate a measuring of processing speed. In such a case the rapid processing diagnostic shell is used. The phoneme identification task remains as described above but now the patient performs under a time limit. For example the patient auditory detects phonemic contrasts at a normally rapid speed of natural speech. If the patient fails to detect most contrasts at this speed then those same tasks are given at slower speed such as 60 80 words per minute. A distinct discrepancy between her performances at normal and slow speeds would point to a problem with processing speed.

The process is further uniquely structured to ensure efficiency rendering an order of presentation of the diagnostic cells important. Finer contrasts are tested before more obvious ones. For example the patient is only tested on the o au contrast hle hl if she fails the o contrast hle hll because a patient who can detect the latter is likely to be able to detect the former as well and thus need not be necessarily tested on the easier contrast.

Most if not all results from the diagnostic cells are recorded in the second data structure such as the patient matrix for generation of therapy cells later. This part of the diagnosis phase covers most if not all phonemes and phoneme clusters in a language. At an end of such diagnosis the process yields a substantial if not complete phonological profile of the patient that specifies which phonemes and phoneme clusters are problematic in which sound environments.

Diagnostic cells can also be incorporated in the therapy phase. For example more complicated consonant clusters such as spr skr can be tested at an end of the therapy phase for p to see if there are still lingering problems with this phoneme.

From the phoneme identification diagnostic shell the process can proceed to the sound symbol matching diagnostic shell. The process can use a result of the phoneme identification diagnostic cells to generate the cells for sound symbol matching. For example if the patient made errors with the v w contrast in the phoneme identification shell then the process can generate sound symbol matching cells that ask the patient to input such as via typing letters that match recorded sounds v and w . Thus sound symbol matching cells can be used to confirm the results of the phoneme identification cells administered earlier.

From the phoneme identification diagnostic shell the process can separately proceed to syllabification diagnostic shell and onto the word segmentation diagnostic shell. From a sound found to be problematic for the patient from the earlier phoneme identification testing any words containing these particular phonemes can be generated in the syllabification diagnostic cells. For example if the patient produced errors in the phoneme identification cells involving p in word medial and word final positions then the syllabification diagnostic cell may include the word harpsichord to see if the patient retains the p sound in breaking this word into its syllables. If the patient omits the p then the subsequent word segmentation diagnostic cell can include more words with p in these positions such as mishaps and capsized. The patient is then asked to segment these words into individual sounds giving finer detail of her phonemic ability. In performing these tasks in syllabification and word segmentation shells new errors may trigger the program to run the phoneme identification cells again for phonemes that were not initially found to be problematic in certain sound environments.

Other kinds of phonological tests can also be administered from phoneme identification including rhyming. Particularly when the patient commits errors with vowels in the phoneme identification shell the process can generate rhyming diagnostic cells such as asking the patient to produce words that rhyme with i when she failed to detect the i i contrasted earlier in the phoneme identification shell such as br v. b . To perform this task she may record her words using a microphone type or select pairs of words that rhyme.

From sound symbol matching the diagnosis phase can proceed onto word level tests such as lexical access and lexical retrieval. If the results of the phoneme identification and sound symbol matching diagnoses suggest that the patient faces difficulty processing the phoneme b in certain sound environments then the process can generate lexical access diagnostic cells that ask her to produce either by recording or typing as many words as possible with the b sound in word initial word medial or word final position within a set time. The process first scores a number of words she can produce within a time limit to determine if accessing words with b is problematic in and of itself. The process then matches her productions against stored words to detect further problems and obtain additional details about her processing difficulties. For example if she misspells blubber as blummer then such error confirms that she has difficulty with the b m contrast in the word medial position. However if she spells bubble correctly in a same task then this result would suggest that her problem may be confined to the b m contrast in word medial position only when the word ends with r . In short subsequent diagnostic cells in the process can confirm and yield finer details about the patient s processing problems.

The lexical retrieval diagnostic shell can follow from or precede the lexical access shell. When following the lexical access shell the lexical retrieval diagnostic cells can be used to trace in finer detail the parts of the patient s mental lexicon network of stored words in the brain that have been adversely affected by processing difficulties at a phonetic level. For example a lexical retrieval diagnostic cell may require the patient to name the objects pear rail and crest from images on the screen. If the patient records her answers as pail wail and quest then such results not only suggest that she has difficulty with the phoneme r in all positions but also which of her stored words with r are ill formed due to interference from l and w .

From these word level diagnostic cells the patient can proceed to others such as morpheme recognition. For example the process generates a morpheme recognition diagnostic cell that asks the patient to type in words with the suffix er based on her earlier errors with the phoneme r in phoneme identification syllabification and or word segmentation.

Another important word level test is rapid naming. For example the process generates a rapid naming cell that requires the patient to read words displayed on the display as such words appear. The words used can involve i I vowels if these were found to be problematic in the earlier diagnostic cells such as beat v. bit. When incorporated in the rapid processing shell the process requires the patient to recognize words speedily and automatically at a speed necessary for fluent reading.

Other diagnostic shells can involve sentence level and text level tests as described in the sample diagnostic shells section. Also the shells may involve reading or writing. Further some diagnostic cells are sensitive to an age of the patient while others are not. For example most if not all patients are expected to have acquired a full inventory of phonemes of the language. However at least one word used in the cells can be selected based on age.

In the therapy phase the therapy shells can be used as diagnostic shells and vice versa. Three therapy shells described below are novel to the field phoneme discrimination as administered here rapid word recognition and word amplification.

With respect to therapy cells problems found via phoneme identification shell in the diagnosis phase can lead the process to activate the phoneme discrimination therapy shell. In the phoneme discrimination shell a minimal pair of words e.g. pleats bleats is used for a phonemic contrast of interest p b . These two words are shown on the display. An audio recording plays such two words randomly at a set speed while the patient selects by clicking or other input means a word that is uttered at that point in time. The patient may begin at a slow speed of 60 words per minute wpm and proceed onto faster and faster speeds exceeding 100 wpm. One goal is to approach a speed needed for auditory discrimination of speech sounds and for automatic recognition of words in fluent reading.

In the rapid word recognition shell a minimal pair of words is used for the phonemic contrast of interest as in the phoneme discrimination shell. Such two words are shown on the display. This time the patient says a word that is highlighted on the display. Again the patient may begin at a slow speed and proceed onto speeds exceeding 100 wpm. The rapid word recognition shell may be administered independently of the phoneme discrimination shell or the rapid word recognition shell may follow the phoneme discrimination shell when the patient fails to progress to quicker speeds in the latter. In the second scenario the rapid word recognition shell shows improvement in a speed for the phoneme discrimination shell.

In the word amplification shell the patient is taught to attend to prosodic features of a word or phrase such as intonation stress pattern and vowel quality. For example if a patient registered problems with the pr consonant cluster in the phoneme identification shell during diagnosis then the process may generate a word amplification cell that plays a video or audio file of a person speaking that elongates a sound segment and exaggerates an intonational contour of the word especially a beginning pr segment. This may be similar to motherese language with an exaggerated prosodic pattern that caretakers use with infants. The patient is asked to imitate this amplified pattern by recording and playing back her production or by answering a series of questions about a position and movement of her articulators such as her lips tongue jaws and so forth or by noting various auditory features such as pitch and juncture.

One sequence of activating therapy shells depends on a problem identified in the diagnostic phase and new problems discovered in the therapy phase. To illustrate if the patient displayed problems with the p b contrast in word initial position in the diagnosis phase then the process activates an articulation therapy cell that allows the patient to view from a model practice record and review her articulation of the p and b phonemes. Next the process presents her with a word discrimination cell that requires her to select the right word or image associated with that word when an audio recording plays a phrase or sentence. This cell may play five phrases or sentences. Her correct and incorrect responses are entered into the second data structure such as the patient matrix for later analysis. Next the process activates the phoneme discrimination cell with five minimal pairs involving the p b contrast in word initial position. If there is no error in task performance as described above for this type of cell then the patient moves from pair to pair and to higher and higher speeds. However if the patient encounters problems proceeding in this manner then the process may run other cells such as rapid word recognition involving a same minimal contrast before returning to phoneme discrimination to see if the patient can clear the hurdle the second time. Other cells may be invoked on other failed attempts such as additional articulation therapy cells that give more detailed cues or live assistant may be called in at this point. Following this the process activates the spelling pattern cell for p which involves teaching the patient to recognize when p is pronounced as f ph . Further the process trains and tests the patient in a rapid naming of words containing the letter p p or f sound and the sound b . The process may use an error committed earlier in word discrimination and elsewhere to generate the words in the rapid naming cell. The patient may start off slow at 1.0 second per word and proceed onto quicker and quicker speeds to approach 0.3 second per word. Note that typically developing students in Grade 4 and above are expected to achieve 120 180 correct words per minute. Once the patient reaches this goal the training phase for the p b contrast in word initial position is complete and the patient proceeds to the next shell or cell. If the patient displayed problems with the p b contrast in word medial position instead during the diagnosis phase then the syllabification therapy cell is activated. This is because the syllabification therapy cell can help to train the patient to attend to phonetic features in the middle of words such as focusing on the difference between flabby fl bi and flappy fl pi .

Further note that any end user based technology disclosed herein whether patient based or operator based can be employed via any graphical user interfaces whether monochrome grayscale or in color. For example such interface can comprise a structural element such as a window a menu an icon a control unit widget or a tab. Also for example such interface can comprise an interaction element such as a cursor a selection unit or an adjustment handle.

Moreover in some embodiments the computer can be configured to detect the geolocation of the patient automatically such as via the geolocating unit . Based on such detection the computer can be configured to at least partially output at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole based on a language or a dialect associated with that geolocation. For example if the computer detects that the patient is in France then the computer at least partially outputs at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole based in French whether in part or in whole. Note that relevant cell data shell data game data and so forth can be translated automatically whether in part or in whole via the computer and or be available already pre translated whether in part or in whole. Note that such acts can be performed via the computer system and or the patient computer in any manner. Further note that the patient can override whether in part or in whole and or disable whether in part or in whole such feature such as for travel purposes.

Additionally in some embodiments the computer can be configured to detect patient language automatically as vocally input into the microphone such as via speech or voice recognition software. Then based on such detection the computer at least partially outputs at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy based in that language whether in part or in whole.

Moreover in some embodiments the computer can be configured to at least partially employ the NFC circuitry to interact with another NFC circuit during at least partial output at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole. For example based on a cell task the patient can be instructed to move the computer such as via waving against or touching another object such as an NFC unit. Upon such movement the NFC circuitry can instruct the computer whether the task was performed and if so then whether the task was properly performed.

In addition in some embodiments the computer such as the mobile phone can be configured to run a software application which at least partially embodies at least some of the technology disclosed herein such as for the diagnosis phase and or the therapy phase whether in whole or in part. The software application can run silently in a background of the computer . The software application can be configured such that the computer listens to the patient s responses via the microphone when the patient goes about her day and converses with other people such as at work school home and so forth. Such listening can be whether the patient is using the computer such as via conducting a telephone call or a teleconferencing session and or the patient is not using the computer such as when the computer is resting on a table. The application can be configured to automatically filter for background noises and or voices other than the patient. Further for privacy and or for data security purposes the application can also be configured to automatically delete the background noises and or the voices other than the patient as preset in advance. However for any language as spoken via the patient and recorded via the application the system can be configured to process such information such as upon receipt from the computer and utilize this information for the provision of the diagnosis phase and or the therapy phase whether in whole or in part such as via a diagnosis cell and or a therapy cell.

Furthermore in some embodiments the computer can be implantable such as a hearing aid or wearable such as with an optical head mounted display OHMD . Such computer can comprise a vibrator for bone conduction such as for sound hearing or a similar device for articulation analysis. For example the vibrator can provide a vibrational output to a jaw bone such that the jaw bone conducts a sound to an inner ear of the patient. Alternatively the computer can be configured to provide information on the patient s articulation of particular sounds by monitoring such features as the vibration of the patient s vocal cords and manner of airflow in the patient s oral cavity. Accordingly the computer can be configured to provide at least partial output of at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole even in the language as selected via the geolocating unit based on the geolocation of the computer .

Moreover in some embodiments the computer can be configured for facial coding in order to categorize patient facial movements via their facial appearance such as for emotion determination and articulation training or speech therapy during at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole. Such categorization can be used as an iterative feedback loop to enhance in at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole. For example the computer can detect the patient s face in at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole extract a geometrical feature of the patient s face produce a temporal profile of each patient facial movement and then supply such profile such as to the computer system whether to the first data structure and or the second data structure for use as an iterative feedback loop to enhance in at least one of the diagnosis phase whether in part or in whole and the therapy phase whether in part or in whole.

Further in some embodiments the computer can be implantable or wearable. Such computer can identify and map problem areas of the patient s brain for language processing as determined through at least one of the diagnosis phrase and therapy phase. As an implanted or wearable device the computer can monitor activity of nerve cells and use brain signals to correlate physical areas of the brain with the functional areas mapped by the program through at least one of the diagnosis phase and the therapy phase. Such computer can then stimulate brain circuits through corrective action through the therapy phase. Such computer can monitor changes in brain circuitry as determined through brain activation and patient output from the therapy cells. For example this monitoring of the activated areas in the brain may indicate that a patient is close to reaching a target sound in her approximations during therapy. In such a case the program intensifies her therapy at this juncture to get her past this goal and reinforces her training to ensure secure acquisition.

In addition in some embodiments the computer can be configured for second language learning. In such a case the first data structure such as the master matrix would be configured to predict errors likely to be committed by second language learners for the language or dialect in question. Most of the therapy shells would remain especially if learners are aiming for native like fluency. New diagnostic and therapy shells would cover and or be updated to cover more components of grammar sentence construction and pragmatics language use in context especially if at least some information is obtained from other patients utilizing the computer system .

Further in some embodiments the computer can be configured for accent modification in which a patient receives speech therapy to alter her native accent. For example a person may decide to reduce a regional or stigmatized accent for professional reasons. In such a case her therapy will focus more on phoneme identification and discrimination and word amplification and less on rapid word recognition. The appropriate therapy cells would have been generated by the diagnostic shells selected for such a program. Namely the diagnostic shells will primarily cover articulation at the segmental sound and prosodic utterance levels. In other embodiments the patient can be a machine that produces human like speech during task performance such as for machine learning purposes. In such instances the computer can be configured to provide corrective training so that the patient machine approximates natural speech at the segmental prosodic and syntactic levels.

Additionally the applicants conducted a study on a therapy method delivered in person that forms a basis of the present disclosure. An experimental group in this study adopted a flexible data driven methodology that used detailed ongoing linguistic cognitive profiles of each student to generate individualized training drills. A control group used an Orton Gillingham based approach. A comparison of segmentation skill between the experimental group and the control group showed statistically significant transfer effects in the former and a slight drop in the latter. With the experimental group the combined training in phonemic awareness and rapid automatized naming also resulted in stronger performance in word recognition.

More particularly the study compared an individualized approach based on the methodologies disclosed herein to a standardized approach to intervention for struggling readers in middle school. The Wilson Reading System based the on Orton Gillingham principles served as the standardized approach in the control group. The individualized approach used in the experimental group was a new form of intervention that used creative problem solving to address the specific reading and language processing problems identified in each student. Called responsive intervention here the approach required the development of detailed linguistic cognitive profile of each student in order to customize training. The study design followed the recommended criteria of the National Reading Panel 2000 and the Institute of Education Sciences 2013 for efficacy research. The results showed a significant impact difference in segmentation skill between the two methods providing further confirmation and explanation for the weaknesses of existing intervention programs.

The site of the present study was a public junior high school with an enrollment of over 1 400 with around 260 students in special education. This junior high school was located in a predominantly middle to upper middle income area in the state of New York. The study was conducted in conjunction with an afterschool reading program on site that ran from March June 2014. The program was organized by the research team and offered as a community service to participants.

This study conformed to the National Reading Panel s 2000 criteria for a well designed experiment that provides strong evidence for cause as well as those of the Institute of Education Sciences 2013 . The National Reading Panel 2000 meta analysis of reading studies concluded that effect sizes were larger when children received focused and explicit instruction on no more than one or two phonemic awareness PA skills. Also programs that focused on both letters and phonemes were more effective than those that only covered one. In the present study the experimental group learned IPA International Phonetic Association symbols in addition to letters and phonemes. The experimental group practiced recognizing individual sounds in words phoneme isolation as the only PA skill taught directly. But the end of program assessment tested another PA skill segmentation to determine transference.

The National Reading Panel s review also found that effects were greater when students were taught in small groups compared to classrooms or one to one settings. The optimal total time of instruction was found to be five to 18 hours. In the current study group sizes ranged from an average of seven to 10 students per session. Instruction time averaged 35 minutes each session for a total of 8.25 hours. To ensure internal validity participants were assigned randomly to the two groups as described below. The two groups were equivalent on key factors described below as confirmed by chi squared tests. A student who was receiving Wilson intervention during school hours was asked to withdraw from the program and was not counted in the statistical analysis.

The National Reading Panel 2000 found that transfer effects were greater when studies used experimenter devised tests to measure reading improvement since standardized tests may be less sensitive in detecting changes in the skills under investigation. The pretests and posttests used in the present study were developed by the authors to measure segmentation ability. One final recommendation conducting follow up posttests to assess the long term effects of training some time after completion of the intervention could not be implemented in this study because the program ended at the close of the school year.

Participants were nominated by the school s teachers as students in special education who would benefit from the afterschool reading program. Twenty six students participated in the afterschool program 15 from Grade 6 and 11 from Grade 7. To assign participants to the control and experimental groups the students were first divided by grade. Students in each grade were randomly assigned to either the control or experimental group. Of the 26 students who participated in the program 18 attended the afterschool sessions to the end of the school year and were included in the control study. There was an equal distribution of sixth and seventh graders in both groups with nine students each six in Grade 6 three in Grade 7 .

All the students in the control study were from two parent households. Of these 18 students five were female three in control two in experimental groups and 13 male six in control seven in experimental groups and seven were minority students four in control three in experimental groups . Five of the students in the control group and six in the experimental group were receiving speech language therapy services. The study s participants all scored at Level 1 or 2 on the New York State s English Language Arts ELA test in Grade 4. Level 1 is considered Below Standard in which student performance does not demonstrate an understanding of the English language knowledge and skills expected at this grade level New York State Department of Education 2012 . Performance at Level 2 demonstrates partial understanding. Above it are Level 3 Meets Proficiency Standard and Level 4 Exceeds Proficiency Standard . For one student in the control and one in the experimental group only their ELA Grade 5 scores were available and they were both at Level 2. The ELA scores of two of the students in the control group were not available. IQ scores were not considered because these struggling readers could have language processing problems which could have affected their IQ scores. A series of chi squared tests revealed no significant differences between the control and experimental groups in terms of gender minority status participation in speech language therapy grade level and two single parent household. Two of the students in the control group and three in the experimental group were overage for their grade levels suggesting that they had repeated a grade. This factor was also found not to be statistically significant between the two groups.

The afterschool sessions for the control and experimental groups ran for 45 minutes every Tuesday from March June 2014 except for a one week midterm break. Instruction time was 35 minutes after subtracting 10 minutes for settling in and getting ready to take the late bus. Each group was taught by a teacher in a separate classroom see Control Group and Experimental Group below . Each teacher was supported by a teaching assistant in 75 of the sessions. The teachers kept attendance logs while their teaching assistants recorded the level of participation of each student in their groups see Fidelity of Implementation below . Both teachers assigned homework that took no more than an hour total a week.

The teacher who taught the control group was hired through a selection process conducted by the school which screened applicants among its own teachers in special education. The instructor selected had nine years of teaching experience and Wilson Level 1 certification.

The control group strictly followed the Wilson Reading System. The class used the Third Edition of the Wilson Reading System s Instructor Manual Rules Notebook and Student Reader One and Two. As explained on the company s website the Wilson Reading System is a step by step program aimed at teaching encoding and decoding skills proceeding from monosyllabic to multisyllabic words. It asks students to tap out the sounds of words in learning segmentation Wilson Language Training Corp. 2010 .

During the program the control group worked on closed syllables and exceptions digraphs two letter combinations that form single sounds such as ee welded sounds e.g. all ing blending and segmenting vowels a e i o u and consonants. The teacher introduced new concepts methodically allowing for practice and review. Class activities were all dictated by the Wilson method and included identifying concepts such as welded sounds in words b blending letters representing sounds into words r am ram filling in sentences with given words identifying phrasal boundaries in written sentences completing words with given letters and reading simple passages. The teacher distributed weekly packets from the Wilson curriculum for review at home.

The teacher in the experimental group was one of the inventors of the present application. That inventor had over 20 years of experience in teaching at the college level but none at the non tertiary level. That inventor had worked with students with reading disabilities in one to one settings for over eight years but was not trained in any standardized approach.

The experimental intervention involved responding directly to the language problems seen in each student. Consequently the form and pace of intervention in the experimental group varied for each student depending on his or her difficulties and progress. To execute this type of responsive intervention the initial profiles of the students language abilities and weaknesses were gathered through a series of short tests designed by the authors to identify each student s problem areas. The tests which took no more than 15 minutes per student were administered one on one before the start of the program in a quiet classroom. The tests covered basic phonological knowledge. Students were asked to identify vowels in words i in beat segment words f r e m d framed and break up words into syllables ad van tage .

The initial evaluation was followed by further observation and recording of students reception and production errors each week. These data sources were used to generate individual profiles that contained information on each student s problems with phonemes consonants and vowels phonological processes e.g. neutralization of unstressed vowels to orthography spelling patterns morphological structures word formation and morphophonemic processes e.g. devoicing of past tense morpheme in base words ending in voiceless consonants such as sl p slapped . The students linguistic cognitive profiles included problems in reception listening and reading and production speaking and spelling . Because the program only ran for three months the experimental class did not cover larger linguistic structures such as lexical word collocations phrases sentences and texts. It is generally accepted in the field that phonological orthographic and morphological knowledge are key components of reading development Berninger Abbott Nagy Carlisle 2010 and should be taught directly Torgesen 2004 .

Each student s cumulative profile was used to generate new drills specifically for him or her for the following week. Four of the students in the experimental group had articulation problems and experienced difficulty controlling air flow and voice volume. These students started in the program with articulation exercises practicing with props as needed. For example they used hand held mirrors to check on the movement of their lips lip spreading or rounding and lollipops to feel the position of their tongues in vowel production. Regardless of individual pacing the experimental group as a whole generally progressed from pronunciation auditory discrimination of phonemes and representing sounds in the form of phonetic symbols to learning phoneme grapheme sound letter mappings and spelling patterns.

Drills in the second half of the program focused on rapid naming of words containing the spelling patterns learned earlier. Although rapid automatized naming RAN has been used in assessment and research for over three decades Denckla Rudel 1976 the actual nature and role of rapid naming in reading disability is still unclear see Elliott Grigorenko s review of studies 2014 . RAN was employed for a different purpose in this study to catch students errors in recognizing spelling patterns and use the information gathered to develop future drills. RAN traditionally involved letters digits and object names but in the version of RAN adopted in this study participants read aloud single words flashed on the screen at prescribed times using MS PowerPoint. Each word list contained an average of 40 words. Most of the words were either monosyllabic such as rut or bisyllabic such as roaster. No more than three of the words in each list contained more than two syllables such as happiness. A scorer recorded correct and incorrect readings of test words which were then used to generate new drills for subsequent weeks. For example when a student misread sitting as sighting subsequent drills included distinguishing between the spelling patterns for the vowels ai ight ite ie etc. and I i . Instruction in the class was similarly individualized. Much of class time was spent on on on one conferencing collaborative work and groupwork. Each student received weekly packets tailored to his or her particular problems with language. It is important to note that segmentation skill was not taught directly and explicitly to the class. The students weekly packets similarly did not include segmentation exercises. This was to see if transference effects occurred.

Fidelity of implementation was considered in line with the Institute of Education Sciences 2013 for efficacy research. Fidelity of implementation of the Wilson method in the control group was monitored through a combination of classroom observations student attendance and participation class time use pedagogic strategies and teaching materials and content. The teacher in the control group prepared lesson plans by filling in fully the Wilson Reading System Lesson Plan forms spelling out the specific words to be taught. The research team confirmed that she kept close to the plan with the only modifications being continuation of the material into a second week when needed. Additionally the teaching assistant in the control group who was affiliated with the authors college and not the participating school served as the observer of the control class. The teaching assistant s observations were made at least once every other week either in writing or through oral communication. The teaching assistant s reports confirmed that the teacher followed closely the Wilson Reading System presenting the structure of language systematically and cumulatively reinforcing concepts through multisensory channels using questioning techniques and giving feedback on students errors. Furthermore as an experienced instructor the teacher varied class activity and pacing to keep students engaged.

The teaching assistants in both classes rated the students in their own groups on their level of attention and participation in the classroom based on attendance attention to task at hand response to teachers questions and distractibility e.g. cell phone use . On a four point scale system Good Average Fair Poor the control group received the following ratings Good 3 Average 4 Fair 1 Poor 1. The experimental group received the following ratings Good 2 Average 3 Fair 2 Poor 2.

The experimental class followed a highly fluid flexible arrangement that did not allow for easy monitoring of fidelity of implementation. Nevertheless the following information was gathered from the training sessions each week student attendance and participation notes on conferencing with every student in the group and distribution of individualized weekly packets for every student. The collected data showed that every student present in each session received one on one conferencing at least once from the teacher or teaching assistant. Every student present also received an individualized weekly packet. Both classes met and ended at the same time on the same day in the same building.

The same segmentation test was administered a week before the start of the afterschool program pretest and the last week of the program posttest . The segmentation test consisted of a list of 10 common words that contained some monosyllabic words such as praise and bisyllabic ones such as flower. Seven of the words occur as the top 5 000 most frequent words in usage Davies Gardner 2010 . The test was administered individually to each student in a quiet room. The student s oral production was transcribed in person into IPA phonetic symbols with junctures breaks between sounds noted. When needed the students were asked to segment the words in question again to confirm the transcription. All the students in both groups were administered the same test in the same manner. Points were allocated as follows 0 The test word was uttered as a single unit the student uttered the wrong sound the sound was in the wrong position in the word the student said the letter instead of the sound e.g. double U W instead of w sound or the student abandoned the attempt to segment the word. 1 A single phoneme or phoneme cluster was given in the right position in the word. A point was still given for a phoneme cluster even though in this case the student had not segmented the word completely a comparison of her score and the total would indicate that her segmentation was not complete. 

Close to the end of the program all participants were tested on their speed in word recognition. Thirty six words were placed singly into MS PowerPoint slides Calibri 44 point size font and set to display at 0.3 second i.e. 200 words per minute . All the words were in the top 1 000 of the most frequently used words in contemporary American English such as anything and least Davies Gardner 2010 . Three blank slides separated every 10word to allow students to pause between their rapid reading of the words flashing on the screen. The test was administered individually in a quiet area without the presence of the other students. Only readings in the exact forms of the words were accepted. For example no points were given if a student read response as respond.

The segmentation tests were administered from a test manual that contained the exact instructions to give orally to the students. An example was given to clarify segmentation For example cat is k t . Each student was asked to repeat the test word to confirm that the right word was heard before segmenting it into individual sounds phonemes . Students were given as much time as needed to complete each item. For every test item and response the testers were friendly but did not offer any feedback. For the RAN test the testers checked with the students to make sure that they were ready to read the words on the screen. Ten blank slides preceded the first word to give the students time to prepare. The testers used a word list in the order of the slide presentation to check off the correct readings.

Some of the inventors of the present application served as testers and had practiced using the same protocols for administering and scoring the same segmentation test for other students for over a year prior to this study. To determine inter rater reliability all the segmentation pretests were scored independently by both authors and 33.3 of the segmentation posttests were scored by a second evaluator. Inter rater reliability was 99.4 for the pretests and 99.7 for the posttests. Inter rater reliability was not monitored for the RAN test since scoring only involved checking off correct readings of test words on a list.

A series of analyses of covariance ANCOVAs were run to examine the effect of the intervention on segmentation skill. Both ELA and segmentation pretest scores were entered as covariates. Table 1 shows unadjusted and adjusted means for these analyses. The ANCOVA for the segmentation test revealed a significant effect of the intervention F 1 12 15.11 p 0.002 0.557 see Table 2 . Students in the experimental group performed better than control students on this assessment. The segmentation scores of two students in the control group were not included in the calculation because their ELA scores were not available. But their performance on the pretest and posttest fell within the range of the scores of others in their control group pretest 20 and 20 out of 59 posttest 13 and 17 out of 59 .

Both groups of students started in the program with similar unadjusted mean scores 25 v. 26 out of 59 but diverged significantly at the end 45 v. 21 . Four members of the control group actually showed substantial drops in scores with three of them experiencing decreases of over 20.0 . In contrast five students out of the nine in the experimental group showed gains of over 33.9 . At the beginning of the program both groups generally could only divide words into syllables not phonemes as seen in their pretest scores. After the intervention all the students in the experimental group were able to segment a majority of the test words into single phonemes. The only student in the experimental group who was not able to score above 40 out of 59 in the posttest missed a month of sessions in the middle of the program.

RAN was part of the responsive intervention program of the experimental group. As noted earlier RAN was used to detect weaknesses in the application of spelling rules at the speed needed for fluent reading. At the beginning of intervention all of the students in the experimental group made errors even at speeds slower than 60 words per minute wpm and most of them could not perform the task above 120 wpm. Typically developing students in Grade 4 and above are expected to achieve 120 180 correct words per minute cwpm Shaywitz 2003 p. 277 . Two months into the program students in the experimental group were able to perform at speeds between 120 200 wpm. For example one student misread the u sound in roosting toot rooted and noose in an earlier RAN assessment. After further practice he was able to read the words tooting drooping loose and croon correctly in a subsequent RAN test at 200 wpm.

Close to the end of the program a RAN test was administered to both groups to see if the combined PA and speed training improved the experimental group s accuracy in word recognition. Each student in the experimental group read an average of 44.4 of test words correctly at 200 wpm compared to 31.0 for the control group. More importantly five students out of the nine in the experimental group scored above 50.0 compared to only one in the control group.

In some embodiments various functions or acts can take place at a given location and or in connection with the operation of one or more apparatuses or systems. In some embodiments a portion of a given function or act can be performed at a first device or location and the remainder of the function or act can be performed at one or more additional devices or locations.

In some embodiments an apparatus or system comprise at least one processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the apparatus or system to perform one or more methodological acts as described herein. In some embodiments the memory stores data such as one or more structures metadata lines tags blocks strings or other suitable data organizations.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of this disclosure can be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or as embodiments combining software and hardware aspects that can all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s can be utilized. The computer readable medium can be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific example a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium can be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium can include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal can take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium can be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium can be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radiofrequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure can be written in any combination of one or more programming language including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming language such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code can execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer can be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection can be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The diagrams depicted herein are illustrative. There can be many variations to the diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For instance the steps can be performed in a differing order or steps can be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the disclosure. It will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future can make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow.

