---

title: Pendulum-regulated clock
abstract: A pendulum-regulated clock. The clock has a movement at the bottom of a multi-rod pendulum. In an embodiment, a first pendulum rod and a second pendulum rod are provided. The clock provides swinging motion by imparting an oscillating torque to one or more of the pendulum rods. In an embodiment, a dual escapement mechanism may be provided. A dual escapement mechanism may synchronize the dual escapements via differential adjustment, to uniformly power pendulum rods during both directions of swing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08876370&OS=08876370&RS=08876370
owner: 
number: 08876370
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140307
---
This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 774 149 filed Mar. 7 2013 entitled PENDULUM REGULATED CLOCK the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to clocks and more particularly to clocks using a pendulum and which are driven by power transmission through one or more escapements.

Pendulum regulated clocks have been in use for hundreds of years. Such devices were first patented in 1657 by Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens. While many such devices were or are driven by weights later devices may be powered by springs or by electric motors or by other power sources.

The vast majority of prior art pendulum regulated clocks utilize a basic design configuration having a fixed as in mounted on a wall or within a cabinet movement from which hangs the regulating pendulum. The movement powers the pendulum via an escapement and is in turn regulated by the period of the pendulum swing. Note that in the present specification the term movement or clock movement will normally be used as the noun for operative components including mechanical gears shafts escapement hands and the like. Thus the term motion may be used when a verb is proper in the usual context.

Some exceptions to the basic design configuration just illustrated do exist such as so called swinger clocks wherein the clock movement is mounted on the upper portion of a single rigid compound pendulum. Such prior art clocks however utilized a different manner of operation than that described herein. In a swinger clock this compound pendulum serves as the regulating pendulum the period of which is commonly adjusted by raising or lowering a weight or bob attached to the lower portion of the compound pendulum. A second slave pendulum is mounted within the movement is powered by the movement and provides the impulse energy to cause the compound pendulum to swing.

In 1986 in U.S. Pat. No. 4 600 315 entitled Whole Body Swingable Clock Nakamura described a swinger clock . Nakamura addressed some of the existing problems in the art by making his clock easier to wind to start and to adjust when compared to some prior art swinger clock s . However he did not alter the basic architecture of such clocks and used an existing design configuration which utilized a clock movement atop a single rigid compound pendulum that derives its motive impulse from a second pendulum within the clock movement.

The invention of this present specification is a clock configuration substantially and essentially different from the swinger clock as this invention does not use a rigid compound pendulum and requires no second pendulum within the clock movement.

Another basic configuration of a pendulum regulated time keeping device is the common metronome as patented by Johann Maelzel in 1816. The metronome is essentially the usual design of a rigid pendulum hanging from the movement that powers it except that the rigid pendulum is a compound pendulum. As such a moveable weight on the top portion of the compound pendulum affords easy adjustment of the desired beat.

In the art of building unusual clocks the use of a pendulum regulated movement appears to have been limited to configurations such as a pendulum hanging from the movement or the swing clock as described above or a common metronome. Consequently provision of a unique configuration for a pendulum regulated clock is believed to be an interesting and significant contribution to the art.

In the various figures of the drawing like features may be illustrated with the same reference numerals without further mention thereof. Further the foregoing figures are merely exemplary and may contain various elements that might be present or omitted from actual implementations of various embodiments depending upon the circumstances. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the various embodiments and aspects of the developments described herein. However various other elements for a pendulum driven clock especially as applied for different variations of the functional components illustrated as well as different embodiments of artistic elements such as a shape of components or visual design of various elements may be utilized in order to provide a useful reliable visually attractive and intellectually intriguing timepiece.

A prototype of the pendulum regulated clock has been developed and is operational. The clock has a movement at the bottom of a multi rod pendulum. In an embodiment a first pendulum rod and a second pendulum rod are provided. In an embodiment the clock swings itself by imparting an oscillating torque each of two pendulum rods.

In an embodiment a dual escapement mechanism is provided such that one escapement mechanism is paired with each pendulum rod. The dual escapement mechanisms are synchronized via a differential adjustment to uniformly power both pendulum rods during both directions of swing.

In an embodiment a counter rotating escapement is provided. In such embodiment two relatively smaller meshed wheels are used in place of a traditional single relatively larger wheel.

More generally a pendulum regulated clock is provided. The pendulum regulated clock is driven by one or more escapements of common or counter rotating design. In such embodiments a clock movement may be provided that is or is within the pendulum bob. In an embodiment the pendulum bob and thus the clock movement remains horizontal during clock operation. The entire clock swings as a pendulum from attachment points on a wall ceiling or other structure.

A traditional pendulum regulated mechanical clock uses the relative angular motion between a pendulum and a clock movement to regulate temporal operation of the clock via an escapement. The clock movement is commonly firmly affixed to a wall or cabinet and the pendulum bob is commonly suspended from the clock movement by a single rod. In more elaborate pendulums multiple rods of different materials are used such that the length of the pendulum is less affected by temperature changes. In these cases the multiple rods are structurally joined such that they act as one rigid pendulum rod.

In contrast in the pendulum regulated clock described herein the clock movement and the pendulum bob are one in the same and therefore if the pendulum bob were affixed to a single pendulum rod no relative motion between the two would exist. Thus an alternate configuration is necessary to provide the relative angular motion needed for temporal regulation. In an embodiment the needed relative angular motion is achieved by suspending the clock movement from two parallel rods. As the clock movement swings suspended from these two parallel rods simple geometry i.e. a parallelogram of changing shape is provided keeps the clock movement in a horizontal orientation. This induces a relative angular motion between the clock movement and the pendulum rods from which the movement is suspended. This relative angular motion is then used via an escapement or in the case of an embodiment of the invention two escapements to regulate temporal operation of the clock see .

Many prior art pendulum regulated clocks use a common deadbeat escapement like the device illustrated in . While a common deadbeat escapement could be used in an embodiment of a pendulum regulated clock as disclosed herein instead in an embodiment as described herein a counter rotating escapement may be provided see .

In an embodiment because a pendulum regulated clock described herein uses two pendulum rods there are two sources available for relative angular motion for use in clock temporal regulation. Such sources occur between the clock movement and each of the pendulum rods. In an embodiment described herein dual escapements are utilized. Such an embodiment cuts in half the force transferred through each escapement as compared to the use of a single escapement comparatively reducing wear on each of dual escapements. Such an embodiment also promotes isochronous behavior in that the clock swing is powered symmetrically. A differential mechanism is used to ensure equal force is transmitted through each escapement see reference number and .

The foregoing briefly describes a pendulum regulated clock. The various objectives features and advantages of the devices described herein will be more readily understood upon consideration of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with careful examination of the accompanying figures of the drawing. However as with any mechanical clock the purpose of building such devices in the current electronic age is largely aesthetic. Such a clock may serve the purpose of keeping time. However such mechanical clocks and specifically the pendulum regulated clock described herein serve the additional purpose of keeping time in an artfully novel mechanically intriguing and aesthetic pleasing way.

Attention is directed to where a prototype embodiment for a pendulum regulated clock is depicted. Such prototype clock has been constructed and operated successfully. It should be noted that other embodiments of a clock may be constructed using the designs taught herein or portions thereof.

A conceptual configuration is shown in for an embodiment for a pendulum regulated clock . A pendulum regulated clock may use a two rod pendulum that includes a first pendulum rod and a second pendulum rod . A clock movement notational detail not shown in may be provided as a part of or within a pendulum bob . A clock movement associated with pendulum bob may include one or more common escapements. As more fully depicted in which is further discussed below a clock movement associated with pendulum bob may include two escapements Eand E where Ecomprises meshed counter rotating escapement wheels and along with verge arms and where Ecomprises meshed counter rotating escapement wheels and along with verge arms . A first escapement Eis paired to a first pendulum rod and a second escapement Eis paired to a second pendulum rod . A differential adjustment see reference in as further discussed below is normally provided as necessary to maintain synchronous operation of each escapement. Particulars of escapements Eand Ewill be discussed below in more detail especially in discussion relating to . Also to simplify certain figures of the drawing for explanatory purposes only illustrate one escapement mechanism E. However it should be understood that a second escapement Eand its accompanying components not shown in will be present in a clock as will be easily understood by those of skill in the art. An individual escapement E is more clearly seen in isolation in .

In an embodiment a two rod pendulum may be used with the clock movement within the pendulum bob . Relative oscillating motion with a predictable frequency is used to control temporal operation of the clock . Such motion is generated by the swinging motion of pendulum rods and is communicated to the gear train of clock movement via an escapement mechanism.

As seen in in an embodiment of the clock suspending the clock movement in or as part of pendulum bob from first and second pendulum rods which may be in a near parallel configuration creates a geometry such that the clock movement remains near horizontal during swinging movement. In an embodiment clock movement may remain precisely horizontal during swinging movement of clock . This normally occurs assuming a horizontal mounting fixture noted as an upper horizontal reference line regardless of swing angle sigma of first pendulum rod and second pendulum rod . This configuration creates the needed predictable oscillating motion where the first and second pendulum rods join the pendulum bob containing clock movement . This oscillating motion may be observed by comparing wherein the relative angle between the clock movement and the escapement verge is alpha when the clock is swung to the left as seen on and comparatively the relative angle between the clock movement and the escapement verge is beta when the clock is swung to the right as seen on .

In an embodiment first and second pendulum rods are provided. In a prototype embodiment a pendulum rod length L shown along a vertical reference line extending between the upper horizontal reference line and a lower horizontal reference line was adjusted to approximately eighty eight 88 inches. In that configuration the pendulum rod length L provided a pendulum period T of three 3 seconds. Note that this can be seen from the formula that describes the physics T 2 PI 2 L g 0.5 . A gear train for clock movement can be designed to accommodate a selected pendulum length L and associated pendulum period T.

The period T of the pendulum swing may be adjusted in a number of different ways depending on the construction utilized in an embodiment for a clock . In an embodiment a weight W not shown may be attached to a pendulum bob affixed such that it may be adjusted up or down relative to the pendulum bob . A weight W so adjusted in turn adjusts the period T of the pendulum swing. Alternately in an embodiment the length L of the first and second pendulum rods can be adjusted via a turnbuckle see or similar device which in turn adjusts the period T of the pendulum swing. Alternately in an embodiment as seen in first and second pendulum rods may be each hung from an upper mounting spreader bar that is in turn supported by first and second support pins and in such case each spreader bar may be adjusted from its initial position at an initial spreader bar height H at distance D above upper horizontal line either upward from or downward toward upper horizontal line to a height H at distance D above upper horizontal line to change an effective length from L to L of the first and second pendulum rods.

As additionally seen in in an embodiment a pair of support pins and may be provided for each of pendulum rods and and a spreader bar may be provided to join the pair of support pins and in an operative configuration wherein the first or second pendulum rod is hung from its respective spreader bar as just noted above. In an embodiment each of support pins and may have a support pin edge portion which may be located at a divot in a support rail . Support rail should normally be firmly attached to a wall or other structure. Such a configuration is normally considered a low friction pin style bearing configuration. For example each of support pin edge portions may include a pivot point as seen in to minimize contact with a surface in the divot . Other embodiments may use other attachment methods for attachment of upper pendulum rod of first pendulum rod and upper pendulum rod of second pendulum rod and provide a clock in accord with the teachings herein.

In an embodiment as shown in a pendulum rod e.g. first pendulum rod may be attached to a clock movement in pendulum bob via a ribbon of spring steel. Second pendulum rod may be similarly attached. As shown in a swing rod link is pivotally attached at first end to first pendulum rod . A swing rod is fixedly attached at lower end to verge pivot and pivotally attached at upper end to a second end of swing rod link . As the clock swings translational motion between a verge and a pair of meshed escapement wheels and communicates angular motion from the first pendulum rod to clock movement via the verge swing rod and swing rod link . In an embodiment a mirror image of this interaction also occurs for the second pendulum rod via a similar swing rod link and swing rod a second verge and a second set of escapement wheels and see references and in .

In an embodiment a clock movement may be constructed in three layers as depicted in . The three layers include 

 b a Suspension Layer where the movement is attached to the pendulum rods e.g. to first pendulum rod and to swing rod and

 c a Regulation Layer where the remainder of the gear train and one or more escapement mechanisms are mounted. A minute hand not shown in see may be mounted to shaft protruding forward from this Regulation Layer . An hour hand not shown in see may be mounted using another shaft shown in hidden lines which may be concentric with shaft

Shafts and torque reduction gears transfer the power from the Spring Motor Layer to the Suspension Layer via a suspension power shaft . Power is further transferred to the Regulation Layer via power transmission gears and a regulation power shaft .

In an embodiment power for a clock movement gear train begins with a spring motor in spring motor layer . As seen in in an embodiment a spring motor may be provided utilizing multiple constant torque springs having storage spools on shafts which may mounted to structural mounting plate . A plurality of constant torque springs and accompanying storage spools may be ganged with a plurality e.g. two of spring motor output spools . The spring motor output spools in turn drive a suspension power shaft . The spring motor output spools may be configured to turn in the direction shown by curved reference arrow in in response to spring force shown by reference arrow along a ribbon of spring material. Thus the torque on spring motor output spool is in the direction shown by reference arrow . Each spring is provided by a ribbon of spring material that is sized and shaped and has strength and tension properties which provide a design wherein the ribbon of spring material tends to wrap itself around a storage spool . The force generated along ribbons in the direction of reference arrow translates into a torque around the output spool in the direction of reference arrow in . The entire spring motor layer is mounted between two structural mounting plates plate and plate see in the latter case . Power developed is available at the suspension power shaft until all of the spring material in ribbons is transferred onto the spring storage spools . To wind the clock an opposite in the depicted embodiment counter clockwise torque is manually applied to the suspension power shaft until the spring material provided by ribbons is once again wound around the output spool s . Those of skill in the art will recognize and will be able to construct clock without additional instruction that a ratchet not shown should be provided somewhere between the spring motor layer and an escapement so that the spring ribbons can be wound without engaging the escapements. In an embodiment such a ratchet may be provided in the Regulation Layer .

In an embodiment a suspension layer which may be provided between mounting plates and see at reference numeral and serves three major purposes. Namely 

 a it provides a place to operatively connect a clock movement to the first and second pendulum rods 

 b it receives power from the spring motor layer and transmits power to the regulation layer and may use a power transmission details not shown in such process and

 c it provides a location to couple the motion of first and second pendulum rods to the swing rods via swing rod links to transmit such motion to the verge and .

As seen in in an embodiment the torque reduced power from the spring motor passes through power transmission and enters the Regulation Layer at the regulation power shaft see and . As better seen in power may be transferred from regulation power shaft through a series of gears including a ratchet to a motion works mechanism which includes concentric hour hand shaft and minute hand shaft . The motion works mechanism may utilize existing technology of gears and fittings to properly synchronize the hour and minute hand shafts and to allow their adjustment as will be understood by those of skill in the art and need not be further described herein. The gear train continues and splits into two separate gear train branches and starting at gears and via power transfer at gear mesh points and respectively. A differential may be provided. In this manner each of the gear train branches and transfers motive force to each of two escapements shown as E which includes first escapement wheel and second escapement wheel which interact with verge and Ewhich includes third escapement wheel and fourth escapement wheel which interact with verge . The ratio of the dual gear trains is such that the speed of each of the four escapement wheels and translates to one 1 revolution per hour at the motion works mechanism . The particular gear ratio which may be utilized depends on the speed of the escapement wheels and which is in turn dependent on escapement design configuration and the selected pendulum rod length L. Other gear ratios could be utilized for embodiments with pendulum rods having a different length L or with differently designed escapements.

A prototype embodiment for a clock has been developed that uses two separate escapements Eand E as described above in relation to . Each of the escapements Eand Einclude a verge first verge and second verge respectively and a meshed pair of escapement wheels and in the case of escapement E and and in the case of escapement E . Each one of first verge and second verge includes a pair of verge arms and in the case of verge and and in the case of verge . Those just mentioned verge arms end at verge tips or pallets and in the case of verge and verge tips or pallets and in the case of verge . A first verge in escapement Emay be affixed to a left hand verge support shaft and a second verge in escapement Emay be affixed to a right hand verge support shaft . As seen in the swing rods and are also affixed to these same support shafts and respectively. In an embodiment such attachment is provided within the Suspension Layer . Accordingly each verge rotates with the associated verge support shaft respectively at a pivot point coincident with pendulum swing e.g. see reference which shows the direction of verge motion due to pendulum swing when the pendulum is swinging to the right . However the clock movement to which are mounted escapement wheels and of second escapement Eremains near horizontal reference line in B and 7 and thus there is motion between the verge arms and and the clock movement escapement wheels and see . Likewise the clock movement to which are mounted escapement wheels and of first escapement Eremains near horizontal and thus there is motion between the verge arms and and clock movement escapement wheels and see .

Counter rotating Escapement. As seen in in an embodiment a counter rotating escapement Emay use two synchronized escapement wheels and meshed together such that they rotate in opposite directions. In an embodiment as also illustrated in pegs P may be utilized 15 places per wheel as illustrated for wheel to verge contact points between an escapement wheel e.g. or and the verge at verge tips or pallets and in the case of verge and at verge tips or pallets lower verge tip and upper verge tip in the case of verge . As illustrated in a peg which is in deadbeat contact with the verge in escapement Eis noted as a contact peg CP and the peg P which will be the next peg to contact verge is noted as next peg NP. Although not illustrated the geometry and contact mechanism may be provided in the same manner for verge and escapement wheel pair and in escapement E.

Alternate embodiments may use meshed escapement wheels with teeth rather than pegs. If a prior art common deadbeat escapement Eis utilized see a single relatively larger escapement wheel may be utilized with verge operating in known fashion with entry pallet and exit pallet rather than with the meshed pair of escapement wheels just described above in connection with escapements Eand E.

A method for operation of a clock constructed as described herein is set forth below using escapement Eas the example. At time 0 with a verge in a horizontal position and moving in a counter clockwise direction see reference number motive force is provided from the springs via the gear train see . As shown in this drives the escapement wheels and in the directions shown by reference arrows and respectively. A contact peg CP is in contact with a verge face which is shaped to follow a radius R with the center point at the verge pivot point . This provides deadbeat type operation as would be the case with use of a common deadbeat escapement as noted with respect to . In such operation the torque at the escapement wheels and does not impart any impulse to the verge during this portion of the swing. Operation continues as the verge rotates slightly counter clockwise in the direction of reference arrow in the present example until the contact peg CP driven by the torque on the escapement wheel in this example provides an impulse force to verge via the lower verge tip thus promoting the current direction of swing.

As escapement Erotates counter clockwise it eventually loses contact with the lower escapement wheel contact peg CP at which time the escapement wheels and rotate in the direction shown by reference arrows and until the next peg NP on the upper wheel makes deadbeat contact with the upper verge arm . When the pendulum e.g. first pendulum rod and second pendulum rod reverses its direction of swing the verge begins rotating in the direction reverse of that shown by reference arrow in . When that rotation has sufficiently progressed a peg P on upper wheel will provide an impulse to the upper verge arm thus further promoting that direction of swing.

The unidirectional rotation of each escapement wheel and provides impulses to promote the oscillating motion of the verge . In turn the period of verge oscillation governed by pendulum length L regulates the rotational speed of the escapement wheels and . The ratio of the gear train including the number of pegs P or teeth if used on the escapement wheels and must be matched with the desired pendulum length L. Although not described in detail operation of the first escapement Emay be the same and will be easily understood by those of skill in the art without the need to repeat the same by additional discussion and separate drawing figure s .

In another embodiment a variation of the Counter rotating Escapement may be provided using both sets of escapement wheels set and set as shown in but only using one set of verge arms. Any pair of adjacent verge arms as arranged in 84and or and or and or and may comprise a complete Counter rotating Escapement that is different in physical lay out but functionally identical to the Counter rotating Escapement set out in .

The basic concept in the use of a Dual Escapement as described above is to simultaneously employ two near synchronous escapements Eand E within the clock movement. A gear train that splits into two paths with identical gear ratios as described above in reference to is used to deliver motive force to both escapements simultaneously. A differential adjustment mechanism may be used to ensure that force is uniformly transferred to both branches of the gear train and subsequently force is delivered uniformly to both escapements Eand E. An embodiment may also be provided using a Dual Escapement with Differential Adjustment may also use prior art escapements of common design or the Counter rotating Escapement design set forth herein above.

In an embodiment simultaneous escapements provided by using a Dual Escapement configuration might be completely synchronous in an ideal situation and thus no differential adjustment would be necessary. However the manufacturing tolerances necessary for fully synchronous operation are rather precise and thus may not be implemented as a practical matter. On the other hand when a single escapement is used a Differential Adjustment as just described is not necessary.

For a pendulum regulated clock as described herein where there are two pendulum rods a Dual Escapement Eand E with differential adjustment configuration ensures that torques and forces compelling pendulum operation are symmetric. In other words each of first and second pendulum rods is driven by a force equal to that applied to the other pendulum rod. In an embodiment such uniformity and symmetry promotes isochronous operation. Also though less important but applicable generally to escapements a configuration Dual Escapement with Differential Adjustment cuts in half the forces transmitted through each one of the escapements Eand E. Consequently such an embodiment may reduce wear and increase escapement operational life.

An embodiment for a pendulum regulated clock has been provided in a prototype as illustrated in . In that prototype embodiment the lay out and interaction of two Counter rotating Escapement mechanisms is as shown in . Thus the differential adjustment mechanism that ensures equal transfer for force to each escapement is provided in the manner shown in .

For context the differential adjustment mechanism shown in and in detail in is positioned within the gear train anywhere between the single minute hand shaft and the two pairs of meshed escapement wheels and . Operation of the differential adjustment mechanism begins at the differential adjustment mechanism pinion gear see and . The pinion gear is driven by the previously described gear train with power from the Spring Motor . This pinion gear is attached to a shaft which is free to rotate within the clock movement . As the pinion gear rotates pivot pins and move with it. The pivot pins are installed through holes defined by sidewalls and in the pinion gear that are slightly larger than the pivot pins and and which may allow some relative motion between the pinion gear and the pivot pins. Further the pivot pins and are secured to the pinion gear by attach pins which allow the pivot pins and to rotate slightly around the attach pin axis .

The pivot pins and are installed such that they extend into holes defined by sidewalls and within the differential output gear and into holes defined by sidewalls and in output gear . The holes defined by sidewalls and in gear any by sidewalls and in output gear are also slightly larger than the pivot pins and so that some relative motion is allowed. As the pivot pins and travel radially with the pinion gear one end or the other will contact a differential output gear or . This contact force causes the pivot pins and to rotate slightly until the other side of the pin or comes in contact with the other differential output gear which may be output gear or output gear . At this point in the operation the pivot pins and provide uniform force transmission from the pinion gear to both differential output gears and . However uniform motion of the output gears and is not enforced. This allows one output gear or to advance slightly more or sooner than the other. In turn this allows the simultaneous and uniform engagement of both escapements Eand E via the dual gear train paths illustrated in regardless of minor differences in geometry caused by inevitable manufacturing imperfections.

A pendulum regulated clock as described herein may be used in a manner similar to any mechanically driven pendulum regulated clock. However in the prototype embodiment depicted herein the clock must be stopped in order to be wound. This is required about once a week. The clock can then be re started with a gentle push. Time setting is accomplished by simply moving the minute and hour hands until the desired time is reached as is with prior art motion works the arrangement that keeps concentric hour and minute hands properly synchronized . Adjusting the clock pendulum frequency is effected by any one or more of several techniques including lengthening or shortening the length L of pendulum rods adjusting either up or down the upper attach point of the pendulum rods as illustrated in and described herein above or adjusting either up or down a weight W affixed to the clock movement as will be understood by those of skill in the art.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for providing pendulum regulated clocks. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various items in the apparatus and in the method s described herein may have been described as multiple discrete items in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding such aspects and details. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such items or sequence of operations are necessarily order dependent or that it is imperative to fully complete one step before starting another. For example the choice of the type of escapement used may depend on a variety of cost and use factors and such decisions may be different as regards installation particulars amongst various clock builders. Further certain details of installation may not need to be performed in the precise or exact order of presentation herein. And in different embodiments one or more items may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other items may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase an embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

