---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a mixed mode traffic map display
abstract: An approach is provided for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. The approach involves causing, at least in part, a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. The approach also involves causing, at least in part, a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based, at least in part, on the one or more class levels, wherein the one or more representations include, at least in part, a link-based traffic flow representation, a heat-map representation, or a combination thereof. The approach further involves causing, at least in part, a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based, at least in part, on the designation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361794&OS=09361794&RS=09361794
owner: HERE GLOBAL B.V.
number: 09361794
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20141204
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been implementation of location sensing services and electronic mapping technologies to provide device users with on demand access to navigation services for example maps. However the map display formats e.g. roads shown as colored lines combined with the speed of travel may increase the cognitive load of reading maps for a device user. Such map display is not always clear and may present significant strains on the user s cognitive load. As a result average users are confused and misguided.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. The method also comprises causing at least in part a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels wherein the one or more representations include at least in part a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. The method further comprises causing at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to cause at least in part a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels wherein the one or more representations include at least in part a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels wherein the one or more representations include at least in part a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels wherein the one or more representations include at least in part a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed method claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to present comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. In one embodiment the system presents a mixture of heat map representation and or link based traffic flow representation for one or more travel segments. In one scenario the heat map representation may signify lower function class roads. For example if an intersection is congested for small roads the blocks around the intersection is also congested. Hence heat map representation may well represent certain congested areas. In another scenario heat map representation may be initiated based at least in part on the supply density and quality of traffic information. If a region does not have enough data to make a specific statement about the traffic on any single road segment but the general area has a lot of data a heat map representation can provide useful information about the region. In a further scenario link based traffic flow representation may signify high function class roads e.g. highways . In another embodiment the system may determine conversion of heat map to link level traffic and or link level traffic to heat map based at least in part on traffic information proximity information or a combination thereof.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UE has connectivity to a designation platform via the communication network . In one embodiment the designation platform performs one or more functions associated with presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels.

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device fitness device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device devices associated with one or more vehicles or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. . In one embodiment the one or more vehicles may have cellular or Wi Fi connection either through the inbuilt communication equipment or from the UE associated with the vehicles. The applications may assist in conveying sensor information via the communication network .

By way of example the applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as mapping application e.g. link based traffic flow representation heat map representation location based service applications navigation applications content provisioning services camera imaging application media player applications social networking applications calendar applications and the like. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for the designation platform and perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the designation platform by interacting with the designation platform over the communication network .

By way of example the sensors may be any type of sensor. In certain embodiments the sensors may include for example a global positioning sensor for gathering location data e.g. GPS a network detection sensor for detecting wireless signals or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi Li Fi near field communication NFC etc. temporal information sensors a camera imaging sensor for gathering image data e.g. the camera sensors may automatically capture obstruction for analysis and documentation purposes an audio recorder for gathering audio data and the like. In another embodiment the sensors may include light sensors oriental sensors augmented with height sensor and acceleration sensor e.g. an accelerometer can measure acceleration and can be used to determine orientation of the UE tilt sensors to detect the degree of incline or decline of the vehicle along a path of travel moisture sensors pressure sensors etc. In a further example embodiment sensors about the perimeter of the vehicle may detect the relative distance of the vehicle from lane or roadways the presence of other vehicles pedestrians traffic lights potholes and any other objects or a combination thereof. In one scenario the sensors may detect weather data traffic information or a combination thereof. In one example embodiment the UE may include GPS receivers to obtain geographic coordinates from satellites for determining current location and time associated with the UE . Further the location can be determined by a triangulation system such as A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. In another example embodiment the one or more sensors may provide in vehicle navigation services wherein one or more location based services may be provided to the at least one UE associated with the at least one user of the vehicle and or at least one other UE associated with the at least one vehicle.

The communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity Wi Fi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the designation platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The designation platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. In addition it is noted that the designation platform may be a separate entity of the system a part of the one or more services collectively referred to as services of the services platform or included within the UE e.g. as part of the applications .

In one embodiment the designation platform may cause a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. In one scenario the designation platform may determine a classification threshold for one or more travel lanes based at least in part on dimension information traffic information congestion level or a combination thereof. The designation platform may classify the travel segments into high function class level and low function class level. In another scenario high function class level includes road segments with high traffic volume e.g. highways whereas low function class level includes road segments with low traffic volume e.g. residential roads .

In one embodiment the designation platform may cause a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels. In one scenario the designation platform may assign link based traffic flow representation for travel segments classified as high function class level. In another scenario the designation platform may assign heat map representation for travel segments classified as low function class level.

In one embodiment the designation platform may cause a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a presentation of the link based traffic flow representation for the high function class level and the heat map representation for the low function class level. In one example embodiment the designation platform may cause a mixed mode traffic map display wherein the link based traffic flow representation and the heat map representation may denote one or more travel segments based on their class levels.

In one embodiment the geographic database may store attributes for one or more travel segments i.e. traffic information e.g. traffic volume accidents etc. in at least one travel segment speed information dimension information etc. . The information may be any multiple types of information that can provide means for aiding in the content provisioning and sharing process.

The services platform may include any type of service. By way of example the services platform may include mapping services navigation services travel planning services notification services social networking services content e.g. audio video images etc. provisioning services application services storage services contextual information determination services location based services information e.g. weather news etc. based services etc. In one embodiment the services platform may interact with the UE the designation platform and the content provider to supplement or aid in the processing of the content information.

By way of example the services may be an online service that reflects interests and or activities of users. The services allow users to share location information activities information contextual information historical user information and interests within their individual networks and provides for data portability. The services may additionally assist in providing the designation platform with information on travel plans of at least one user activity information for at least one user in at least one location speed information for at least one user user profile information and a variety of additional information.

The content providers collectively referred to as content provider may provide content to the UE the designation platform and the services of the services platform . The content provided may be any type of content such as image content e.g. maps textual content audio content video content etc. In one embodiment the content provider may provide content that may supplement content of the applications the sensors or a combination thereof. By way of example the content provider may provide content that may aid in presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information. In one embodiment the content provider may also store content associated with the UE the designation platform and the services of the services platform . In another embodiment the content provider may manage access to a central repository of data and offer a consistent standard interface to data such as a repository of attributes for one or more travel segments traffic information speed limit information in at least one travel segment or a combination thereof. Any known or still developing methods techniques or processes for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information may be employed by the designation platform .

By way of example the UE the designation platform the services platform and the content provider communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer header a data link layer header an internetwork layer header and a transport layer header and various application layer layer and layer headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In exemplary embodiments the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets parking areas or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database can contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data for example.

The road link and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks parking areas attributes on which parking areas are critical etc. The geographic database can include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database can include data from radio advertisements associated with the POI data records and their respective locations in the radio generated POI records . By way of example a street is determined from the user interaction with the UE and the content information associated with the UE according to the various embodiments described herein.

The geographic database can be maintained by the content provider in association with the services platform e.g. a map developer . The map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database . There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities e.g. designated parking areas . In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The geographic database can be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database can be in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database can be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data files GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats can be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which can be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a platform specification format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device such as by a UE for example. The navigation related functions can correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases can be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer can perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the geographic database can be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the geographic database can represent a compiled navigation database that can be used in or with end user devices e.g. UEs to provided navigation related functions. For example the geographic database can be used with the UE to provide an end user with navigation features. In such a case the geographic database can be downloaded or stored on the UE such as in the applications or the UE can access the geographic database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or the communication network for example.

In one embodiment the end user device or UE can be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device UE can be a cellular telephone. An end user can use the device UE for navigation functions for example mixed mode traffic map display for travelling in a route with minimal possibility of obstructions e.g. traffic jams .

In one embodiment the data collection module may accumulate road class level information traffic information or a combination thereof for one or more routing segments. In one scenario the road class levels include a high function road class a low function road class or a combination thereof. The high function road class includes highways arterial roads collectors other large roads or a combination thereof and the low function road class include local roads residential roads other smaller roads or a combination thereof. In another scenario road class levels for one or more routing segments is based at least in part on road dimensions road types road congestion or a combination thereof. In a further scenario road class levels for one or more routing segments is based on distance threshold wherein distance threshold include spatial distance actual graph distance or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the monitoring module may monitor location information for at least one user at least one device associated with at least one user or a combination thereof in real time periodically according to schedule on demand or a combination thereof. The designation platform may cause link based traffic flow representation heat map representation or a combination thereof based at least in part on the monitoring. In one example embodiment the monitoring module may determine that a user by mistake has pulled off from the highway and has entered a residential area. Then the designation platform may cause a link based traffic flow representation for a road segment the at least one user is in for navigational purposes.

In one embodiment the conversion module may convert a heat map representation to a link based traffic flow representation and vice versa. In one scenario the conversion may be based at least in part on proximity information location information or a combination thereof of at least one user at least one device associated with at least one user or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the recommendation module may cause a recommendation of at least one alternative route based at least in part on traffic information. In one example embodiment a user driving in a busy travel segment may be recommended to take an exit to a lower function road class that has less traffic. Then the designation platform may cause link based traffic flow representation heat map representation or a combination thereof based at least in part on the recommendation.

In one embodiment the communication module may cause at least in part a transmission of at least one communication from the designation platform to the one or more UE or vice versa. Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . The communication module may be used to communicate commands requests data etc. In one example embodiment a UE can send a request to the designation platform via the communication module and the designation platform may then send a response back via the communication module . In another embodiment the communication module may be used for communication between the various modules i.e. . The communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for connecting at least one UE with the designation platform .

In one embodiment the presentation module obtains a set of summary statistics from other modules and continues with providing a presentation of mixed mode traffic map representing one or more travel segments. The mixed mode of traffic map includes a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the presentation module may cause a display of link based traffic flow representation for high function road class a heat map representation for low function road class or a combination thereof. In a further embodiment the presentation module may cause a presentation of a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof for one or more travel segments based at least in part on data density information network information or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the presentation module may cause a presentation of a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof based on time based information routing information speed information preference information or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the user interface module employs various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the applications of the UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as maps menus data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application of the UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. In another embodiment the user interface module may cause a presentation of one or more travel segments in at least one user interface element of a user interface wherein the representation of one or more travel segments include at least in part a mixed mode traffic map representation.

The above presented modules and components of the designation platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the designation platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the designation platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the applications . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE as a designation platform or combination thereof. Still further the designation platform may be integrated for direct operation with the services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a classification of one or more travel segments into one or more class levels. In one scenario the one or more class levels include at least in part a high function class level a low function class level or a combination thereof.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of one or more representations of traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the one or more class levels. The one or more representations include at least in part a link based traffic flow representation a heat map representation or a combination thereof. In one scenario the designation platform may collect and display traffic flow spatially as a heat map representation for low function class roads. In another scenario the designation platform may use link based traffic flow representation for high function class roads.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a presentation of at least one user interface depicting the one or more representations of the traffic flow information for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on the designation. In one example embodiment a user may be presented with a combination of link based traffic flow representation and a heat map representation for one or more travel segments. In one scenario the proximity of a user and or a device associated with a user to a travel segment may change the heat map representation for the travel segment into a link based traffic flow representation. Correspondingly the designation platform may generate heat map representation for distant travel segments. In one scenario proximity information may include a spatial distance e.g. a straight line distance a travel network distance e.g. when following roads and connectivity or a combination thereof. For example spatial distance for a road X that passes below underpass the current driven road may be small but road X is not be connected to the currently driven road therefore a user may have to travel a long distance along the road network. In such cases the designation platform may cause a representation of a far distance display mode for road X.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of the link based traffic flow representation for the one or more travel segments classified in the high function class level. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a depiction of high function class travel segments e.g. highways other large roads with high traffic volume etc. with link based traffic flow representation. In one scenario link based traffic flow representations include one or more colored lines to represent traffic flow in one or more travel segments. For example red colored lined may represent high traffic congestion whilst green colored lines may represent minimal traffic flow.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of heat map representation for the one or more travel segments classified in the low function class level. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a depiction of low function class travel segments e.g. local roads other small roads etc. with heat map representation. In one scenario heat map representation includes coloured depiction of traffic data for an area in two dimensional maps. In one scenario a typical heat map may be a two dimensional map based on spatial proximity network connectivity or a combination thereof. For instance a road that passes below the current driven road but is not connected with the current driven road may share spatial proximity but not network connectivity. In case of network connectivity the travel data may be averaged along the network graph. The standard heat map is analogous to showing a heat map where heat is equally radiated in all directions. The one or more points in the heat map may blend into each other equally based on the spatial distance. However the network heat map representation may be analogous to heat being restricted to moving along a connected network of pipes. The heat is eventually distributed but the distance is not simply a two dimensional spatial distance but the distance the heat had to travel only the pipe. The heat map representation may be time based capturing traffic activity over a certain time interval in a given area. In another scenario the designation platform may determine when to convert an area or a portion of an area to a heat map representation based at least in part on location information data density information network resources information or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the heat map representation may be classified using density and or quality of traffic information. If a region does not have enough data to make a specific statement about the traffic on any single road segment but the general area has a lot of data a heat map representation can provide useful information about the region. In another embodiment the link based traffic flow representation and the heat map representation may be displayed at the same time. However the display types may be classified based at least in part on the freshness of the data e.g. historical traffic data versus the current traffic data . For example at the same location the heat map representation may show current conditions e.g. low confidence when low sample density while the historical data e.g. high density may be shown as a link based traffic information.

In step the designation platform may determine proximity information for at least one user at least one device associated with the at least one user or a combination thereof with respect to the one or more travel segments. In one scenario the designation platform may receive geographic coordinates for a user and or UE associated with a user in one or more travel segments via sensors and or satellites .

In step the designation platform may process and or facilitate a processing of the proximity information to determine one or more proximate travel segments that are within at least one threshold boundary from the at least one user the at least one device or a combination thereof.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of the link based traffic flow representation for the one or more proximate travel segments regardless of the one or more class levels classified for the one or more proximate travel segments. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a link based traffic flow representation for one or more proximate low function class travel segment e.g. local roads .

In step the designation platform may determine contextual information associated with the one or more travel segments at least one user or a combination thereof wherein the designation of the one or more representations is further based at least in part on the contextual information. In one scenario the contextual information includes at least in part temporal information routing information speed information preference information point of interest information or a combination thereof. In one scenario the designation platform may intelligently generate a map that combines link based traffic flow representation and heat map representation based at least in part on the contextual information.

In step the designation platform may determine the classification of the one or more travel segments based at least in part on one or more characteristics of the one or more travel segments. In one scenario the one or more characteristics include at least in part travel segment dimension information travel segment type information congestion information or a combination thereof. In one scenario travel segments with larger dimensions and high congestion level may be classified as high function class level whereas travel segments with smaller dimensions and medium congestion level may be classified as low function class level.

In step the designation platform may determine a classification threshold value. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a classification of one or more travel segments based at least in part on distance threshold wherein distance threshold include spatial distance actual graph distance or a combination thereof. In another scenario the designation platform may cause a classification of one or more travel segments based at least in part on traffic information dimension information location information or a combination thereof.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of the link based traffic flow representation for the one or more travel segments classified with the one or more class levels that are above the classification threshold.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of the heat map representation for the one or more travel segments classified with the one or more class levels that are below the classification threshold.

In step the designation platform may determine the designation of the one or more representations for the one or more travel segments based at least in part on data density information network resources information or a combination thereof. In one scenario the designation platform may cause a selection of at least one representation for one or more travel segments e.g. heat map representation based on data density information because a user may have limited data plan. In another scenario the designation platform may cause a selection of at least one representation for one or more travel segments e.g. heat map representation based on network resource information because channels in a traffic system have limited bandwidth. In a further scenario the designation platform may cause a selection of at least one representation for one or more travel segments based at least in part on quality of data comparison of data to the historical data or a combination thereof.

In step the designation platform may process and or facilitate a processing of the traffic flow information to determine one or more recommended travel segments from among the one or more travel segments. In one scenario the designation platform may process traffic information for high function class travel segments a low function class travel segments or a combination thereof to determine a suitable travel segment for a user. Then the designation platform may recommend at least one travel segment to a user based at least in part on the determination. In one example embodiment a user in a slow moving travel segment e.g. highway is likely to make an exit. The designation platform may recommend the user travelling in the congested highway to take an exit to a lower level road e.g. local road with minimal traffic.

In step the designation platform may cause at least in part a designation of the link based traffic flow representation for the one or more recommended segments regardless of the one or more class levels classified for the one or more recommended travel segments. In one example embodiment the designation platform may cause a link based traffic flow representation for at least one recommended low function class travel segment e.g. local roads .

The processes described herein for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to present comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of presenting comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to present comprehensible representation of traffic flow information for various travel segments based on class levels. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Further one or more camera sensors may be incorporated onto the mobile station wherein the one or more camera sensors may be placed at one or more locations on the mobile station. Generally the camera sensors may be utilized to capture record and cause to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

