---

title: Femtocell service through a secondary connection
abstract: System(s), apparatus(es), and method(s) are provided to for providing femtocell service through a secondary connection to a network gateway node that is part of a service provider network. The secondary connection can be established in response to at least one telecommunication performance condition of a primary connection to the network gateway node; the at least one performance condition includes connectivity state of the primary connection or quality of traffic delivery through the primary connection. The secondary connection can be established, in part, via a home gateway node that is alternative to a home gateway node associated with a femtocell access point (AP) that enables, in part, the femtocell wireless service. The main home gateway node or the femtocell AP can initiate establishment of the secondary connection. Home gateway node(s) or femtocell AP(s) that can provide femtocell service through the secondary connection can manage connectivity with the network gateway node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474076&OS=09474076&RS=09474076
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09474076
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 131 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 750 098 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled FEMTOCELL SERVICE THROUGH A SECONDARY CONNECTION the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to telecommunication networks and more particularly to providing femtocell service through a secondary telecommunication channel.

Network operators generally provide voice and data services such as digital television internet protocol IP television media on demand and voice over internet protocol VoIP communications over broadband internet access. To provide voice or data services network operators typically install customer premises equipment CPE that serves as a home gateway node. When the connection between the home gateway node and wide area network element s that provide the voice or data services is inoperable or unstable or the home gateway node malfunctions all communication between subscriber premises and service provider network are generally lost or compromised.

In certain telecommunication networks that provide wireless service network operators deploy access points within subscriber premises to offload macrocell wireless traffic or to improve macrocell service within the subscriber premises. Such access points are commonly deployed in area s where macrocell traffic is heavy or frequently congested or wireless signals associated with macrocell wireless service is weak and deployment of additional macrocells may not be economically feasible. To relay traffic and signaling from subscriber devices to the service provider network the access points within the subscriber premises typically connect to the service provider network via home gateway node s the communication link amongst a subscriber device and an access point is wireless and the connection to the service provider network is over a broadband network connection. In conventional telecommunication networks when the broadband network connection is compromised lost unstable underperforming etc. or when a home gateway node associated with the broadband network connection malfunctions wireless service provided through an access point deployed in subscriber premises and linked to the home gateway node fails e.g. current call sessions are lost and new call sessions are then routed through macrocell. Accordingly commercial viability and acceptable perceived quality of service of a deployment of access points that supplement or complement wireless service s of a macrocell deployment is dictated largely by the reliability of broadband network connection and home gateway node s associated with such access points.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the subject disclosure nor delineate any scope thereof. The sole purpose of the subject summary is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented hereinafter.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s apparatus es and method s for providing femtocell service through a secondary connection to a network gateway node that is part of a service provider network. The secondary connection can be established in response to at least one telecommunication performance condition of a primary connection to the network gateway node the at least one performance condition includes connectivity state of the primary connection e.g. a backhaul link connection or quality of traffic delivery data rate error rate etc. through the primary connection. The secondary connection can be established at least in part via a home gateway node that is alternative e.g. neighboring to a home gateway node associated with a femtocell access point AP that enables in part the femtocell wireless service. The main home gateway node of the femtocell AP can initiate establishment of the secondary connection. A home gateway node or a femtocell AP that initiates establishment of the secondary connection can monitor telecommunication performance of the primary connection to the network gateway node. In addition such home gateway node or such femtocell AP can determine at least one home gateway node that can configure at least in part the secondary connection. Home gateway node s or femtocell AP s that can provide femtocell service through the secondary connection can enable provisioning of at least one of a set of home gateway nodes or a set of femtocell APs. A home gateway node in the set of home gateway nodes or a femtocell AP in the set of femtocell APs is configured to establish at least in part the secondary connection. Moreover the home gateway node s or the femtocell AP s can manage add remove switch etc. connectivity with the network gateway node.

The numerous aspects and features of the subject disclosure provide at least the following advantages with respect to conventional femtocell networks i Improved subscriber experience and associated perceived quality of service. ii Reduced subscriber attrition. iii Enhanced robustness of telecommunication network design particularly though not exclusively femtocell to wide area network WAN design. In addition the numerous aspects or features described herein are superior to solution s for always on femtocell connectivity that relies on connection amongst disparate femtocell access points or connection amongst a wireless device served by a primary femto AP and a secondary femto AP.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are network and radio technology agnostic and can be exploited in substantially any network and through most any or any wireless communication technology. For example Wi Fi wireless fidelity Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IS 95 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all or all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

While various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are illustrated in reference to femtocell femto access point s such aspects and features also can be exploited in other types of confined coverage access points e.g. home based access point s enterprise based access point s that provide wireless coverage to a confined wireless environment through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as but not limited to Wi Fi or picocell telecommunication. Likewise various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are described in connection with a home gateway node. However such aspects features or advantages can be accomplished for substantially any customer premise equipment CPE that serves as a local gateway device or local gateway node for a confined coverage AP even though such CPE can be deployed in an enterprise facility e.g. a factory an office building . . . rather than a home.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the subject disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of one or more embodiments of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the subject disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of various example embodiments of the subject disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system platform interface node coder decoder layer and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a memory a code object an executable code instruction a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures or code instructions stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface node driver coder decoder layer and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB or home access point HAP which include femtocell access point picocell access point Wi Fi base station . . . and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that at least delivers and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment or network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that context in the subject specification generally distinguishes amongst a base station that provides or is intended to provide primarily outdoor wireless coverage and a facility based access point e.g. femtocell AP that provides or is intended to provide primarily indoor wireless coverage or outdoor wireless coverage within a confined range. Explicit distinction between indoor serving AP and outdoor serving base station is made when context may be insufficient to distinguish the utilized terms.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human agent s or automated component s supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of gateway nodes includes one or more gateway nodes a set of access points includes K access points with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity a set of backhaul links spans one or more backhaul links etc. In addition as employed herein the term subset can include the empty set unless otherwise noted as in cases in which for instance disclosure of a subset of one or more entities is intended to expressly exclude the empty subset.

Calls referred to and described in the subject disclosure e.g. incoming calls or call sessions include voice communications and data communications such as multimedia communications video call text message audio communication data communication etc. . In addition the various devices referred to and described herein include any communication devices such as cellphones wireline telephones personal computers portable computers e.g. netbooks or laptops personal digital assistants PDAs Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 players set top boxes television sets TVs stereo players radio tuners satellite signal based or conventional gaming boxes set top or portable digital video recorders DVRs or the like.

Features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request to a particular functional element e.g. a femtocell AP in order to execute one or more specific operation. Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a lightweight file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various communication protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

While aspects or features of the subject disclosure are illustrated in terms of applicability to femtocell access points such aspects and features are also applicable to and can be exploited in other radio access points such as Wi Fi APs picocell base station microcell base stations or the like which may provide greater radio access capacity.

Various illustrative scenarios are set forth herein to represent example operational environments that exploit one or more features of femtocell service preservation through secondary connections as described herein and reveal the utility of such one or more features. The various illustrative scenarios are of course not exhaustive of the multiple operational environments in which the one or more features described in the subject disclosure can be exploited. In addition the various illustrative scenarios and related examples are intended to be non limiting without restricting the applicability or utility of the various embodiments of systems and methods described herein or any modification or variations thereof. Various scenarios or embodiments of systems and apparatuses femtocell AP home gateway node etc. are presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the various of the described systems and apparatuses may include additional devices components modules etc. or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches to present the various scenarios or embodiments of the subject disclosure also can be used.

With respect to the drawings illustrates a schematic deployment of a macrocells and femtocells for wireless service coverage in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In wireless environment two areas represent macrocell macro coverage each macrocell is served by a base station which includes a set of one or more antennas and various equipment or apparatuses that enable operation of the base station . It should be appreciated that macrocells are illustrated as hexagons however macrocells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by the deployment or floor plan geographic areas to be covered e.g. a metropolitan statistical area MSA or rural statistical area RSA and so on. Macro coverage is generally intended to serve mobile wireless devices like UE in primarily outdoor locations. An over the air wireless link provides such coverage the wireless link comprises a downlink DL and an uplink UL and utilizes a predetermined band of the radio frequency RF spectrum. As an example UE can be a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS mobile phone. It is noted that a base station its associated electronics circuitry or components and a wireless link operated in accordance to the base station form a radio access network RAN . In addition base station communicates with macro network platform via backhaul link s through one or more components e.g. radio network controller s aggregator component s . . . that are part of access network s aspects and deployment of the one or more components are dictated by the underlying radio technology employed for telecommunication. In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM macro network platform represents a core network CN . In an aspect macro network platform controls a set of base stations that serve either respective cells or a number of sectors within such cells. Macro network platform also communicates with other base stations not shown that serve other cells not shown . Backhaul link s can include a wired backbone link e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric ADSL or a coaxial cable . . . . Backhaul pipe s link disparate base stations .

In wireless environment within one or more macrocells a set of femtocells served by respective femtocell femto access points APs can be deployed in the subject disclosure femtocell is also referred to as confined coverage area . While in illustrative wireless environment three femtocells are deployed per macrocell aspects of the subject innovation are geared to femtocell deployments with substantive femto AP density e.g. 10 10femto APs per base stations . A femtocell typically covers an area that includes confined area which is determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to femto AP path loss shadowing and so forth. While coverage area associated with femtocell and confined area typically coincide it should be appreciated that in certain deployment scenarios confined coverage area can include an outdoor portion e.g. a parking lot a patio deck a recreation area such as a swimming pool and nearby space while area spans an enclosed living space or residence space. The coverage area associated with femtocell typically is spanned by a coverage radius or coverage range that ranges from 20 to 100 meters. The confined coverage area can encompass a setting that can span about 5000 sq. ft. and can include a residential dwelling a business space an entertainment area a worship area an educational facility a wellness area a hospital etc. and access to wireless service typically is regulated. In addition or in the alternative instead of being stationary the confined coverage area can be mobile for example it can be part of a vehicle a car an elevator an aircraft a vessel etc. . It should be noted that the confined coverage area is substantially smaller e.g. 1 3 orders of magnitude smaller than a macrocell .

In the subject disclosure a confined coverage area such as confined coverage area embodies a confined wireless environment which as indicated supra can include indoor space outdoor space or a combination thereof. In addition femtocell AP e.g. or any other type of access point e.g. Wi Fi AP picocell AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. is referred to as confined coverage AP to denote that such an AP provides wireless service coverage to a confined wireless environment. Moreover a confined coverage AP transmits electromagnetic radiation e.g. radiates at lower power than a base station intended for outdoor coverage and that serves a macrocell. In an aspect an AP e.g. femtocell AP picocell Wi Fi AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed within the indoor space e.g. within a building or structure that the AP serves outdoor space that is part of the confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area also is served by the AP. In yet another aspect an AP that covers the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed in the outdoor space that the AP serves in certain deployments the AP can be mounted on or attached to non residential structure present in the outdoor space that is part of the confined area. A confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area referred to in the subject disclosure is owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the AP that serves the confined coverage area where the AP is deployed as part of structure mobile or stationary within the confined coverage area.

A femto AP typically serves a few for example 1 5 wireless devices e.g. subscriber station within confined coverage area via a wireless link which encompasses a downlink DL and an uplink UL . A femto network platform can control such service in addition to mobility handover from macro to femto handover and vice versa and registration and provisioning of femto APs. Control or management is facilitated by backhaul link s that connect deployed femto APs with femto network platform through one or more components of access network s . The one or more components can include a network interface device NID a gateway node a digital subscriber line DSL access multiplexer DSLAM or the like. In addition the one or more components of access network s can be functionally coupled to an access aggregator node which can be embodied in a broadband remote access server B RAS such aggregator node generally is functionally coupled to a femtocell gateway node not shown deployed e.g. installed configured and active within femto network platform . Backhaul pipe s are substantially the same as backhaul link s . In UMTS based radio technology backhaul link is embodied at least in part in Iuh interface.

In an aspect of the subject innovation part of the control effected by femto AP is based on measurements of radio link conditions and other performance metrics. Femto network platform also includes components e.g. nodes gateways and interfaces that facilitates packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP traffic and signaling generation for networked telecommunication. It should be appreciated that femto network platform can be femto AP can integrate seamlessly with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network such as macro network platform . Thus operation with a wireless device such as 120is substantially straightforward and seamless when handover from femto to macro or vice versa takes place. As an example femto AP can integrate into an existing 3GPP Core Network via conventional interfaces or reference links such as Iu CS Iu PS Gi or Gn. In addition femto AP can serve a mobile device that operates in accordance with 3GPP radio technology ies without dedicated functionality such as Wi Fi transceivers.

It is to be noted that substantially all voice or data active sessions associated with subscribers within femtocell wireless coverage e.g. confined coverage area are terminated once the femto AP is shut down in case of data sessions data can be recovered at least in part through a buffer e.g. a memory associated with a femto gateway at the femto network platform. Coverage of a suspended or hotlined subscriber station or associated account can be blocked over the air interface. However if a suspended or hotlined customer who owns a femto AP is in Hotline Suspend status there is no substantive impact to the customers covered through the subject femto AP . In another aspect femto AP can exploit high speed downlink packet access either via an interface with macro network platform or through femto network platform in order to accomplish substantive bitrates.

In addition in yet another aspect femto AP has cell identifier s e.g. in UMTS based radio technology a LAC location area code or a RAC routing area code that is different from the underlying macro network. It should be appreciated that in macro networks cell identifiers IDs such as LAC and RAC are reused over several base stations or Node Bs and large areas so location information or intelligence accuracy and attachment procedure s e.g. Location Area Update LAU or Routing Area Update RAU frequency are relatively low. It should be noted that based at least in part on radio technology deployment for macro networks cell ID reuse granularity may differ wherein radio technologies with distributed processing and more signaling capacity may afford more granular cell ID e.g. LAC and RAC assignments.

Femto LAC and RAC are used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters and emergency calls as well. As a subscriber station e.g. UE that exploits macro coverage e.g. macrocell enters femto coverage e.g. confined coverage area the subscriber station e.g. UE attempts to attach to the femto AP through transmission and reception of attachment signaling. The signaling is effected via DL UL in an aspect of the subject innovation the attachment signaling can include a Location Area Update LAU or Routing Area Update RAU . As an example of attachment procedure and mechanism s associated therewith UMTS handsets monitor network pilots e.g. generated through a femtocell or femtocell AP while in the idle mode each pilot includes LAC and or RAC. As a subscriber station moves between pilots e.g. moves within a macro sector and reaches vicinity of a femtocell the subscriber station probes for a change in LAC or RAC. When a change in LAC or RAC is detected the subscriber station performs LAU and or RAU so mobile network s becomes aware of subscriber station location in order to properly route incoming call pages. Attachment attempts are thus a part of procedures to ensure mobility so voice calls and data sessions can be initiated even after a macro to femto transition or vice versa.

It is to be noted that UE can be employed seamlessly after either of the foregoing transitions. In addition femto networks typically are designed to serve stationary or slow moving traffic with reduced signaling loads compared to macro networks. A service provider network e.g. an entity that commercializes deploys or utilizes femto access points and macro base stations is therefore inclined to minimize unnecessary LAU RAU signaling activity at substantially any opportunity to do so and through substantially any available means. It is to be noted that substantially any mitigation of unnecessary attachment signaling control is advantageous for femtocell or femtocell AP operation. Conversely if not successful UE is generally commanded through a variety of communication means to select another LAC RAC or enter emergency calls only mode. It is to be appreciated that this attempt and handling process can occupy significant UE battery and femto AP capacity and signaling resources e.g. communication of pilot sequences as well.

When an attachment attempt is successful UE is allowed on femtocell and incoming voice and data traffic are paged and routed to the subscriber through the femto AP . To facilitate voice and data routing and control signaling as well successful attachment can be recorded in a memory register e.g. a Visited Location Register VLR or substantially any data structure stored in a network memory. It is to be noted also that packet communication e.g. voice and data traffic and signaling typically paged routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line s T3 phone line s digital level zero line DS0 digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL a coaxial cable . . . . To this end femto AP is typically connected to the broadband backhaul network backbone via a broadband modem not shown . In an aspect of the subject innovation femto AP can display status indicators for power active broadband DSL connection gateway connection and generic or specific malfunction. In another aspect no landline is necessary for femto AP operation.

Femto network platform can serve or exchange traffic and signaling with a mobile device in the set of one or more devices through access network which is linked to the femto network platform via backhaul link s and a femtocell femto AP e.g. primary femto AP via a home gateway node e.g. primary home gateway node . Access network is part of access network s and the femto AP can operate in accordance with aspects described herein.

Femto network platform includes component s node s gateway node s interface s server s or platform s that enable both packet switched PS communication e.g. IP based communication frame relay communication ATM communication . . . and generation of control signaling for networked wireless communication. In an aspect femto network platform includes femto gateway node s also referred to as gateway node s which have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s in macro network platform . A femto gateway node that is part of femto gateway node s or a PS gateway node that is part of PS gateway node s embodies a network gateway node. Femto gateway node s also can include substantially all or all functionality of serving node s described below. In an aspect disparate femto gateway node s can control or operate disparate sets of deployed femto APs. The group of femto gateway node s can be expanded periodically or in accordance with a schedule to improve management e.g. load balancing or other aspects of traffic scheduling and functionality of a set of deployed femto APs. Femto network platform also includes clock layer s which can include the clock strata of network time protocol NTP and thus supply various time based utilities and one or more time records.

Server s have substantially the same functionality as described in connection with server s described below. In an aspect server s can execute multiple application s that provide service e.g. voice and data to wireless devices served through access network and associated femto AP s . Server s also can provide security features to femto network platform . Moreover server s can manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . substantially all packetized flows e.g. IP based flows frame relay based flows ATM based flows . . . the server s generates in addition to data received via interface reference link s wireless link s various bus architectures etc. from macro network platform . Furthermore server s can provision at least in part femtocell service and exchange signaling and related payload data with one or more network components that effect activation of the femtocell service. Further yet server s also implement operations and maintenance O M procedures associated with at least one femto AP and one or more functional elements in femto network platform. In one or more embodiments server s can include one or more processors configured to enable or that enable at least in part the functionality of femto network platform or one or more functional elements therein gateway node s clock layer s etc. . To that end the one or more processors in server s can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions stored in memory for example. Server s or the one or more processors therein can exchange data and signaling with various functional elements of femto network platform via bus . In an aspect the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s .

Memory also can retain information relevant to operation of the various components of femto network platform and femtocell service provided to one or more subscribers. For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise subscriber intelligence such as physical address es billing preference s and plan s one or more records of incidents contracted services which can include media entertainment gaming or the like maintenance and service records related to femtocell service femtocell configuration including devices authorized for femtocell service and authorized subscribers e.g. access control list s described hereinafter associated with one or more deployed e.g. provisioned and active femto APs service policies such as service priority for a device attached to a deployed femto AP and equipment specifications privacy policies add on features which can include parental controls and so forth. In one or more embodiments memory can retain one or more access control lists that regulate access to femtocell service from one or more devices in device s .

Macro network platform can include one or more functional elements e.g. component s node s gateway node s interface s server s or platform s that enable both packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and circuit switched CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked communication wireless or otherwise. It should be appreciated that in cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS HSPA 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS 3GPP2 UMB macro network platform embodies a core network. PS gateway node s can embody at least part of the PS domain. Functional element within the PS domain can enable exchange of notifications indications and directives in accordance with various networked communication protocols indicated herein including one or more peer to peer transport protocol s . With respect to CS communication macro network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks such as telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a SS7 network such networks can be part of external network s . CS gateway node s also can enable exchange of messaging communications in SMS protocol. In addition CS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate traffic e.g. voice arising from such networks. Moreover CS gateway node s can access mobility or roaming data generated through a SS7 network in response to various mobility events as described herein for instance the mobility data can be stored in a VLR visited location register not shown . Furthermore CS gateway node s can interface CS based traffic or signaling with PS gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network CS gateway node s can be embodied at least in part in gateway GPRS support node s GGSN .

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with device s served in part through access network . Data sessions e.g. an incoming call can include traffic exchange with external network s which can be interfaced with macro network platform through PS gateway node s . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate packet data protocol PDP contexts when a data session is established. To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can enable packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technologies etc.

It should be further appreciated that packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a MSC or application server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

Serving node s can convey various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to device s such flows can be received through PS gateway node s from server s . In an aspect server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to external network s which can include an IMS core or other packet based cores from user equipment within device s or network elements. As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in a Mobility Management Entity MME .

Server s can operate in various layers of macro network platform and can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services. Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication to device s thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of macro network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of macro network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s LAN s IMS core network Global Positioning System GPS network s or the like . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions not shown stored in a memory not shown functionally coupled to macro network platform for example.

In the illustrated embodiment of example system femto network platform is functionally coupled to external network s indirectly via macro network platform . However in certain embodiments femto network platform can be directly connected e.g. communicatively coupled to at least one external network in the set of one or more external network s .

As described supra femto network platform is functionally coupled to one or more femto access points through access network and link s . In an aspect gateway node s are functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to a primary femto AP via at least one of access network and primary home gateway gty node . In one or more embodiments a home gateway node e.g. is a DSL modem or a cable modem. In alternative or additional embodiments the home gateway node is a network interface device NID . In the subject disclosure a home gateway node is distinguished from a network gateway node in that the home gateway node is embodied in customer premises equipment CPE that serves as a data and control gateway to one or more network gateway nodes whereas the network gateway node is not embodied in CPE. Access network is functionally connected to i gateway node s via link s and ii primary home gateway node through link s . Access network can be part of access network s AN can be embodied and can operate in substantially the same manner as an access network that is part of access network s . Link s and link s can be embodied and can operated in substantially the same manner as a link in the set of femto backhaul link s .

Primary home gateway node is functionally coupled to device s via link s . Similarly to other links described supra link s can include wired link s or wireless link s for example link s can include a point to point radio link e.g. Bluetooth link or a Wi Fi radio link. At least a subset of device s can be part of a local network deployed within a confined coverage area associated with e.g. served by primary femto AP . In an aspect of the subject disclosure the confined coverage area served by the primary femto AP or any other femto AP described herein is owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the primary femto AP which can be deployed as part of structure within the confined coverage area. The confined coverage area can be embodied in a residential dwelling such as a single family home or an apartment a business space e.g. a hotel an enterprise place of operation a factory an entertainment area which can include bars night clubs or the like a worship area such as a church or mosque an educational facility which can include open and semi open spaces as it may be the case in a college campus a wellness area e.g. a health club a hospital or nursing home etc. Moreover at least one device amongst device s can be served by the primary femto AP for example the at least one device can be a mobile device. Device s can include mobile devices e.g. cellular telephone cellphone laptop computer with wireless connectivity card netbook DVR . . . and wireline devices e.g. plain old telephone system POTS telephone home manager IP based telephone . . . that utilize wireless network resources to telecommunicate voice or data. In certain embodiments device s can include a wearable device with enabled wireless capability that is attached to the subscriber s garment or gear goggles helmet etc. .

Primary femto AP provides wireless service e.g. wireless delivery and reception of data and signaling to the at least one device through at least in part wireless links in an aspect wireless links are substantially the same as wireless links and thus wireless links include an UL and a DL. In addition to provide wireless service at least in part primary femto AP communicates with primary home gateway node through link s in one or more embodiments link s is embodied in a single wired link functionally attached to primary home gateway node . To provide wireless service primary femto AP exploits primary home gateway node to establish a telecommunication channel a packet based protocol channel such as a virtual private network VPN channel for example to gateway nodes s via links and and AN . Wireless traffic and signaling is exchanged with CS core or PS core in macro network platform . It is noted that a femto AP primary or secondary exploits an associated home gateway node to establish such telecommunication channel e.g. VPN channel . The telecommunication channel is typically persistent and thus it should be maintained functional for a femto AP and related wireless devices to access to femtocell service. In scenario s in which performance of telecommunication channel established by primary femto AP with gateway node s is compromised e.g. connectivity to or from gateway node s is lost or bandwidth available for traffic prevents acceptable performance of a service provided through the primary femto AP example system enables preservation of femtocell wireless service within suitable perceived quality of service.

Preservation of femtocell wireless service is based at least in part on a secondary connection to femto network platform . The secondary connection is enabled at least in part via at least one secondary home gateway that is part of the set of one or more secondary home gateway node s . A secondary home gateway node in the set of one or more secondary home gateway node s is functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to at least one femto AP e.g. a secondary femto AP in the set of one or more secondary femto AP s via link s . In one or more embodiments link s is a single wired link functionally connected to the secondary home gateway node. The secondary home gateway node is associated with a confined coverage area. As indicated supra the confined coverage area can be embodied in a residential dwelling such as a single family home or an apartment a business space e.g. a hotel an enterprise place of operation a factory an entertainment area which can include bars night clubs or the like a worship area such as a church or mosque an educational facility which can include open and semi open spaces as it may be the case in a college campus a wellness area e.g. a health club a hospital or nursing home etc.

The secondary connection can be established in accordance with numerous embodiments. In a first example embodiment of example system a femto AP e.g. primary femto AP connects to a home gateway node e.g. a secondary home gateway node in the set of one or more secondary home gateway node s associated with a confined coverage area disparate from the confined coverage area associated with the femto AP. In such first embodiment establishment of the secondary connection can be effected in response to numerous communication performance deficiencies that comprise connectivity of the femto AP e.g. primary femto AP with a gateway node. Communication performance deficiencies can include loss of backhaul link connectivity e.g. broadband connectivity such as DSL connectivity traffic degradation malfunction of the home gateway node e.g. primary home gateway node linked to the confined coverage area associated with the femto AP e.g. primary femto AP or other adverse network event s . In an aspect of the first embodiment the femto AP that establishes in part the secondary connection can operate in at least one radio technology in addition to the radio technology employed by the femto AP for communication of traffic and signaling that is part of femtocell wireless service. Radio technology protocol employed for communication via links can be different from the radio technology protocol employed for communication via wireless links . The complexity of affording more than one radio technology can be offset by the benefit s of retaining femtocell wireless service in the presence of a plurality of communication performance deficiencies. In addition such first embodiment has at least the advantage of avoiding changes to femtocell deployment architecture e.g. deployment plan and thus preserving information critical to operation and regulation of femtocell service such as validated addresses of femto APs for enhanced 911 E911 service.

In a second example embodiment of example system a first home gateway node e.g. primary home gateway node connects to a second home gateway node e.g. a secondary home gateway node in the set of one or more secondary home gateway node s and establishes a secondary telecommunication channel with the second gateway node. In an aspect of such example second embodiment the first home gateway node and the second home gateway node can establish the secondary telecommunication channel wirelessly via radio links . In an aspect radio links can be implemented in accordance with various radio technology protocols Wi Fi 3GPP UMTS 3GPP LTE etc. . In such second example embodiment complexity of a femto AP connected to a home gateway node e.g. primary home gateway node is reduced with respect to a femto AP e.g. primary femto AP in the first example embodiment. It should be appreciated that in the second example embodiment a potential tradeoff of reduced complexity may be reduced scope of communication performance deficiencies that can be mitigated via the plurality of home gateway nodes for instance a malfunctioning home gateway node may not be able to implement a secondary telecommunication channel. It should be further appreciated that such second example embodiment has at least the advantage of maintaining deployment architecture of backhaul links that enable coupling of one or more home gateway nodes with femto network platform .

Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of signal s received by femto AP and signal s to be transmitted by femto AP received or transmitted signal s are modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols e.g. 3GPP UMTS 3GPP LTE . . . . Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling and related payload data or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include the set of Q receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multi mode chipset s . Receiver s transmitter s can convert signal from analog to digital and vice versa. In addition receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations are typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that enables processing or manipulation of signal s in time and frequency space or domain. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex and demultiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component also is a part of communication platform and can modulate and demodulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In addition processor s enables at least in part femto AP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for communication at least in part through one or more receivers s transmitter s . In an aspect the coding decoding schemes or related procedures can be retained as a group of one or more code instructions in memory . When telecommunication through one or more transmission point s not shown associated with femto AP exploits multiple input multiple output MIMO multiple input single output MISO single input multiple output SIMO or single input single output SISO operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coded in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. To decode received information e.g. data or control coder decoder can effect at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

In addition communication platform can process code decode format etc. signal s originated in a wireless environment within a set of one or more electromagnetic EM radiation frequency bands also referred to as frequency bands in the subject specification. The set of EM frequency bands can comprise radio frequency RF portion s and microwave portion s of the EM spectrum although other spectral regions such as infrared IR also can be included. In addition in one aspect the set of EM radiation frequency bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all licensed EM frequency bands or ii all or substantially all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication. It is noted that the set is configurable and can be upgraded to incorporate frequency bands or frequency carriers therein as such bands or carriers become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. In an embodiment a server e.g. provisioning server that is part of OSS BSS can enable configuration of the set of EM frequency bands. Communication platform also can operate in accordance with a configurable set of radio technologies or communication protocols thereof procedures that when executed for example by a processor implement such communication protocols can be retained in memory . As new radio technologies become standardized or available a network operator that provides telecommunication service via femtocell network can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication through a femto AP deployed in a confined area.

In example embodiment multimode chipset s can enable femto AP to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. second generation 2G third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. The various radio network technologies can be part of the set of radio technologies described supra. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval.

Femto AP also can include a display interface not shown which can render various indicia associated with functions that control operation of femto AP or reveal operation conditions thereof e.g. available connectivity to backhaul broadband network. In addition the display interface not shown can convey information to an end user such as number of currently served mobile devices. Moreover the display interface not shown can receive one or more directives to render an environment e.g. display a user interface to configure at least one routing preference associated with customized communication routing as described herein. In an aspect the one or more directives can be issued e.g. generated and delivered by configuration component .

The display interface not shown can include a display component not shown that can convey visual or aural indicia. Various schemes can be employed to render the environment to configure the routing preference such as but not limited to windows based schemes e.g. iconic representation pop up representation or text based representation with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering. In an aspect based on complexity of femto AP for example the display component not shown can be embodied at least in part in a display element within a monitor such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like. The display component not shown also can enable communication of aural indicia for example via speaker s .

The display interface not shown can enable entry of data that defines one or more routing preferences in the set of routing preferences. In addition the display interface not shown can collect entry of data through a data entry component not shown that can enable femto AP to receive external commands e.g. restart operation or configuration information e.g. edit access control list s within femto AP or in administration component within a core network . The display interface not shown can process e.g. decode code at least in part received input data and convey it as signaling to one or more functional elements component s platform s etc. or memory within femto AP . To mitigate fraudulent transaction s entry of data can be secured through various credential based mechanisms such as password protection biometric protection or the like and an associated secured transport protocol s that can include data encryption. In an aspect one or more sets of code instructions that can be executed to implement such mechanisms can be retained within an application app. storage not shown .

Various functional elements and associated circuitry that can embody at least in part data entry component not shown enable data input through one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion one or more communication protocols. Such functional elements can include a keypad a touch screen a microphone a camera s a bar code reader radio frequency ID RFID reader infrared IR wireless based reader or the like.

In certain embodiments femto AP can include a power supply not shown which can provide power to one or more components or functional elements that operate within femto AP . In an aspect the power supply not shown can be rechargeable e.g. it can be embodied in a rechargeable battery. In addition the power supply not shown can include one or more transformers to achieve power level s that can operate femto AP and component s or functional element s and related circuitry therein. In an aspect the power supply not shown can attach to a conventional power grid to recharge or ensure femto AP is operational the power supply not shown can include input output I O interface s not shown or connector s not shown to functionally attach to the conventional power grid. The power supply not shown also can include an energy conversion component s not shown such as a solar panel or a thermoelectric device or material which can be external or internal to the femto AP in order to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy to femto AP .

Femto AP includes a monitor component that can evaluate performance of a telecommunication channel established by femto AP with a gateway node not shown . In an aspect monitor component evaluates such performance by determining at least one performance condition of a home gateway node to which femto AP is functionally connected and that enables in part communication with the gateway node and comparing the at least one condition with group of performance threshold. A performance condition can be characterized by a key performance indicator KPI such as rate of data packet loss rate of call session loss time interval for call session establishment data rate or the like. The performance threshold can be retained as part of performance threshold s which is a memory element register database file etc. within memory . The at least one condition of the home gateway node determines the condition of a backhaul link connection. In another aspect monitor component evaluates performance of the telecommunication channel by assessing one or more performance conditions of a packet based protocol tunnel e.g. a VPN tunnel and comparing the one or more performance conditions to a set of performance thresholds. The set of performance thresholds can be part of performance threshold s .

Based on the performance of the telecommunication channel e.g. the performance is below a predetermined threshold monitor component can convey an indication to scanner component to detect a set of home gateway nodes wherein each home gateway node in such set is not functionally connected e.g. functionally attached through a conductor to femto AP . The set of home gateway nodes can be deployed e.g. installed configured tested and commissioned in proximity e.g. adjacent to femto AP . In one or more scenarios femto AP embodies primary femto AP and secondary home gateway node s embody the set of home gateway nodes.

A subset of one or more home gateway nodes in the set of home gateway nodes detected by scanner component can be provisioned by a network server e.g. a provisioning server within OSS BSS . In an aspect the set of home gateway nodes can be provisioned at the time of or after initial installation of femto AP . As part of the provision of such home gateway nodes the network server can commit e.g. deliver and cause to store one or more secondary connectivity list s and a set of security credentials e.g. encrypted authentication passcodes encryption keys digital certificates . . . associated with the subset of home gateway nodes. The one or more secondary connectivity list s can be retained in memory within memory element register file database etc. . Likewise the set of security credentials can be retained in credential storage within memory . Configuration component enables a service provider or network operator to provision the subset of one or more home gateway nodes. In an aspect configuration component can receive at least one of the secondary connectivity list s or the set of credentials and store either the secondary connectivity list s or the set of credentials or both within memory . Credential storage also can retain one or more hardware identifying tokens or codes for example an IMSI a temporary international mobile subscriber identity TIMSI packet TIMSI P TIMSI an IMEI an MDN a MIN a TIA ESN or a multi bit identification number such as MEID.

To detect a home gateway node scanner component can collect wireless pilot signal conveyed e.g. broadcasted by the home gateway node communication platform enables in part collection of the wireless pilot signal. To collect the wireless pilot signal the scanner component can exploit communication platform or one or more components therein to receive wireless signal within a specific portion of the EM spectrum and in accordance with a specific radio technology protocol e.g. Wi Fi communication . Scanner component can convey an indication to communication platform or the one or more components therein to decode wireless signal in the specific portion of the EM spectrum and the specific radio technology. If a signal quality metric signal to noise ratio SNR signal to interference and noise ratio SINR etc. associated with the wireless pilot signal is above a predetermined threshold scanner component extracts an identification ID code of the home gateway node and thus identifies it. Upon or after detection of a home gateway node scanner component determines if the home gateway node is part of a secondary connectivity list. To make such determination scanner component or a component therein not shown can compare the ID code with one or more codes in the secondary connectivity list. In case the home gateway node is not part of the secondary connectivity list scanner component proceeds with detection of an additional home gateway node. In the alternative in case the home gateway node is listed in the secondary connectivity list scanner component determines if the home gateway node is available to establish a wireless secondary telecommunication channel such as a wireless packet based protocol tunnel. In an aspect to determine such availability scanner component can convey a request for service to the home gateway node. In response scanner component can receive an acknowledgement ACK signal in case the home gateway node has radio resources e.g. available bandwidth to enable the wireless telecommunication channel. Conversely if the home gateway node is unable to establish the wireless telecommunication channel scanner component can receive a no acknowledgement NACK signal or any other type of rejection indication. The home gateway node can reject the request for service based at least on a current or nearly current usage of radio resources or processing resources or b an access list that determines a group of femtocell APs allowed to establish the wireless secondary telecommunication channel.

For a detected home gateway node that is determined to be available scanner component or a component therein not shown can attach to such home gateway node and establish a wireless connection e.g. a Wi Fi connection amongst femto AP and the detected home gateway node. In an aspect establishment of such wireless connection includes mutual authentication of the femto AP and the detected home gateway node the mutual authentication exploits at least one security credential retained in credential storage . In an aspect since the wireless connection may not be as reliable as a wired connection monitor component can assess quality packet loss rate block error rate etc. of the wireless connection and in response to unsuitable quality e.g. below a predetermined threshold scanner component can detect an alternative home gateway node.

Upon or after establishment of the wireless connection femto AP requests the detected and available home gateway node to configure a packet based protocol tunnel amongst the femto AP and a gateway node in order to retain or continue femtocell wireless service through femto AP . In an aspect connectivity manager component also referred to as connectivity manager in the subject specification an annexed drawings can enable femto AP to convey a request to configure the packet based protocol tunnel e.g. VPN tunnel such as IPSec tunnel or GPRS tunnel the request is delivered in part via communication platform . In another aspect connectivity manager can switch from a first packet based protocol tunnel e.g. VPN tunnel established through a first home gateway node e.g. primary femto AP to a second packet based protocol tunnel e.g. VPN tunnel established through a second home gateway node e.g. a home gateway node in secondary home gateway node s . Thus connectivity manager enables femto AP to switch to a telecommunication channel established via the home gateway node that scanner component detected and determined to be available. In another aspect for a specific communication performance condition connectivity manager can retain more than one packet based protocol tunnel e.g. VPN tunnel simultaneously or nearly simultaneously. Monitor component can determine the specific communication performance condition and can report it to connectivity manager . For instance the specific communication performance condition can be insufficient bandwidth to attain a requisite or preferred data rate for certain service e.g. networked gaming application or video streaming application provided through femto AP via a first telecommunication channel thus implementation of a second telecommunication channel in addition to the first telecommunication channel can be necessary or preferred. Integrity protocol retained in memory can dictate at least in part whether the second telecommunication channel is necessary e.g. service with guaranteed bit rate or preferred.

Femto AP includes processor s that can be configured to enable or that enable at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within femto AP in accordance with one or more aspects of the described operation of femto AP . Processor s is functionally coupled to each functional element within femto AP and to memory through bus the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s node s of femto AP however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such functional elements. In some embodiment s one or more functional elements that comprise femto AP can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platform and at least a portion of functional elements therein display interface and functional element s therein as well as other operational components not shown of femto AP . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute computer executable code instructions stored in memory for example within application storage not shown or other memory ies functionally coupled to femto AP to provide at least in part the described functionality of femto AP . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject specification and associated at least in part with functionality or operation of femto AP .

Memory also can retain at least in part in the foregoing application storage not shown at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within femto AP in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage not shown such as one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell base station identifiers and femtocell AP identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data. Memory can include affixed or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM . In one or more embodiments at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to femto AP and linked thereto via a peripheral interface.

Memory also includes access control list s not shown which can be employed at least to configure default logic for customized routing of an incoming call as discussed supra. An access control list ACL enables at least in part regulation of access to wireless service supplied through femto AP and features of supplied wireless service. To at least that end an ACL can comprise a set of access attributes which identify devices that can communicate wirelessly and are authorized to receive telecommunication service through femto AP . An access attribute uniquely identifies a device.

An access control list ACL associated with a femto AP can enable regulation of access thereto in at least the following manner. If a femto AP e.g. primary femto AP receives attachment signaling e.g. LAU signaling or RAU signaling in UMTS based radio technology originated by a device e.g. a mobile in device s the femtocell AP validates an identity of the device as conveyed in the attachment signaling against the access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femtocell AP. If the identity of the device matches a device identifier in the ACL the attachment procedure associated with received attachment signaling is completed and the femtocell AP allows the device to camp therein and establish call sessions normally. In the alternative if validation against the ACL results in no match amongst the identity of the device and a device identity retained in the ACL the femtocell AP rejects the attachment signaling and the device is allowed only to establish emergency calls. An owner or lessee of a femtocell AP can determine access attributes to be recorded in or removed from an access control list associated with the femtocell AP.

More than one ACL can be retained in memory however a single ACL can be active at a time in order to regulate access and provide wireless services. Memory also can retain service attributes that control logic for provision of service to a wireless device identified in an ACL. Service attributes can be specific to femto AP . The logic for provision of service can establish at least one of the following features i Supplied service s e.g. voice only service data only service and available applications voice and data service and provided applications associated with the service s . In addition radio technology employed to supply service s also can be set. ii Service priority e.g. ranking of access to radio resources such as radio technology 3G or 4G bandwidth dedicated channels. iii Access schedule or time constraints such as time of day considerations or expected duration of provided service. iv Level of service or access quality of service e.g. quality of service QoS profile such as best effort conversational real time. It should be appreciated that service attributes also can determine other service features.

A configuration of service attributes also referred to as a profile of service attributes or access profile is specific to a mobile device identified in an access control list even though it should be noted that a particular configuration of service attributes can display a one to many relationship with identified devices in an ACL. Accordingly specification of a service attribute profile can customize provision of wireless service through a femto AP .

Configuration component operates in substantially the same manner as configuration component . In an aspect configuration component enables a network server e.g. a provisioning server within OSS BSS to provision a set of femto APs and associated security credentials a service carrier manages e.g. owns or leases and operates the network server. As part of provision of such set configuration component can receive identification codes or tokens for at least one femto AP in the set ID code s or token s can be retained in secondary connectivity list s . In addition configuration component can retain security credentials associated with the set of femto APs in credential storage . As described supra the security credentials enable authentication of home gateway node with a femto AP and vice versa. In one or more embodiments the set of security credentials includes at least one encryption key at least one encrypted authentication passcode or the like. Integrity protocol can include one or more protocols Kerberos RADIUS Diameter LDAP etc. that enable such authentication.

Based on availability conditions home gateway node can establish a wireless connection with a femto AP in the set of provisioned femto APs in order to maintain femtocell wireless service through the femto AP. In an aspect connectivity manager can assess an availability condition and determine if home gate node can establish a wireless connection e.g. Wi Fi wireless connection to the femto AP. As an example the availability condition can be an amount of radio resources scheduled traffic bandwidth channels etc. or processing resources scheduled tasks processor load available memory etc. available to home gateway node for usage. In a scenario in which such availability condition is above a predetermined threshold connectivity manager categorizes home gateway node as available to establish the wireless connection to the femto AP. At least one predetermined threshold s can be retained in a memory element register database file etc. such as performance threshold s . As another example an availability condition can be the output of a formal operation such as a logical operation or query that determines if an ID code or token of the femto AP is part of secondary connectivity list s processor s can execute the formal operation. In a scenario in which the outcome of the formal operation indicates the ID code or token identifies a femto AP that is authorized to establish a wireless connection to home gateway node connectivity manager classifies home gateway node as available. Connectivity manager deliver e.g broadcast multicast or unicast an indication that home gateway node is either available or not available to establish a wireless connection with a femto AP. In another aspect when home gateway node is available to establish a wireless connection connectivity manager component can establish such wireless connection wherein the wireless connection can include a packet based protocol tunnel e.g. VPN tunnel based on one of IPSec protocol or GPRS Tunnel Protocol .

Home gateway node can communicate wirelessly through a communication platform not shown and respective antenna s not shown that operates in substantially the same manner as communication platform . The communication platform not shown in home gateway node includes at least the same functional elements components antennas mod demod coder decoder multimode chipset s etc. as the communication platform . Additionally peripheral interface operates in substantially the same manner as peripheral interface peripheral interface includes at least a set of ports that enable connection of home gateway node to a set of wireline CPE the CPE includes at least one femtocell AP.

As described supra in certain embodiments femtocell wireless service can be preserved in part through establishment of a peer to peer wireless telecommunication channel amongst home gateway nodes. illustrates an example embodiment of a home gateway node that can enable retention of femtocell wireless service based in part on peer to peer communication and in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In example embodiment monitor component operates in the same or substantially the same manner as monitor component . In an aspect monitor component can evaluate performance of a backhaul link connection amongst home gateway and a gateway node within a femto network platform e.g. . Monitor component can determine at least one performance condition and compare the at least one performance condition with a group of performance thresholds. Based at least on the comparison monitor component can evaluate performance of the telecommunication channel. The performance threshold can be retained as part of performance threshold s which is a memory element register database file etc. within memory . In another aspect to evaluate performance of the backhaul link connection monitor component can assess one or more performance conditions of a packet based protocol tunnel e.g. a VPN tunnel based on IPSec or GPRS Tunnel Protocol and compare the one or more performance conditions to a set of performance thresholds which can be part of performance threshold s .

In a scenario in which performance of the backhaul link connection amongst home gateway and a gateway node within a femto network platform e.g. is deficient e.g. below a predetermined threshold scanner component can detect one or more home gateway nodes that operate in a wireless environment surrounding home gateway node . In addition scanner component can establish a wireless telecommunication channel with a detected home gateway node that is available to support such wireless telecommunication channel. Scanner component operates in the same or substantially the same manner as scanner component . In an aspect scanner component can determine if a detected home gateway node can allow a wireless telecommunication channel. For instance scanner component can transmit a request for service to the detected home gateway node. In response scanner component can receive an acknowledgement ACK signal in case the home gateway node has radio resources e.g. available bandwidth or processing resources processor capacity available memory etc. to enable the wireless telecommunication channel. If the detected home gateway node is unable to establish the wireless telecommunication channel scanner component can receive a no acknowledgement NACK signal or any other type of rejection indication. As described supra a connectivity manager e.g. in the detected home gateway node can assess availability condition thereof and deliver an indication ACK signal NACK signal accordingly.

In home gateway node configuration component can enable a network server e.g. a provisioning server within OSS BSS to provision a set of home gateway nodes and respective set of security credentials. As part of provision of such sets identification ID codes or tokens for at least one home gateway node in the set of home gateway nodes can be stored in secondary connectivity list s configuration component can receive the ID codes or tokes and retain them in secondary connectivity list s . In addition credential storage can retain the set of security credentials associated with the set of home gateway nodes configuration component can receive the set of security credentials and retain it in credential storage . In an aspect credential storage also can retain the content or substantially the content stored in credential storage while secondary connectivity list s also can retain the content or substantially the content of secondary connectivity list s . In one or more embodiments the set of security credentials includes at least one encryption key at least one encrypted authentication passcode or the like. As indicated supra a security credential in the set of security credentials allows authentication of a home gateway node in the set of home gateway nodes with home gateway node and vice versa. Integrity protocol can include one or more protocols Kerberos RADIUS Diameter Light Weight Directory Access Protocol LDAP etc. that enable such authentication.

Home gateway node can communicate wirelessly through a communication platform not shown and respective antenna s not shown that operates in substantially the same manner as communication platform . The communication platform not shown in home gateway node includes at least the same functional elements components antennas mod demod coder decoder multimode chipset s etc. as the communication platform .

In the illustrated embodiments home gateway node and home gateway node includes processor s . The processor s can be configured to enable or that enable at least in part the functionality of substantially any or any component s interface s and so forth within the home gateway node or the home gateway node in accordance with one or more aspects of the described operation of such home gateway nodes. In home gateway node and in home gateway node processor s can be functionally coupled to each functional element component interface memory etc. within home gateway node and to memory through bus . In an aspect the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In example embodiments and processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements component s interface s etc. of home gateway node and home gateway node however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such functional elements. In some embodiment s one or more functional elements that comprise home gateway node and home gateway node can reside within memory as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platforms not shown that are part respectively of home gateway node and home gateway node and at least a portion of functional elements that are part of the communication platforms. In addition such information also can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to other operational components not shown of home gateway node or home gateway node . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute computer executable code instructions not shown stored in memory for example within application storage not shown or other memory ies functionally coupled to home gateway node or home gateway node to provide at least in part the described functionality of home gateway node or home gateway node . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject disclosure and associated at least in part with functionality or operation of home gateway node or home gateway node .

In addition to the various memory elements described supra memory also can retain at least in part in the foregoing application storage not shown at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s interface s or functional element s within home gateway node or home gateway node in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage not shown such as one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s for communication with disparate home gateway nodes or femtocell AP s . Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data. Memory can include affixed or removable elements such as memory card s . In one or more embodiments at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to home gateway node or home gateway node and linked thereto via a peripheral interface.

In addition or in the alternative gateway node can determine routing of terminating traffic or signaling to a femto AP. In an aspect connectivity manager can monitor performance of one or more telecommunication channels e.g. VPN tunnel and based at least on the performance route traffic or signaling via a specific telecommunication channel for instance connectivity manager can determined whether a telecommunication channel is active inactive or performing inadequately as measured via one or more KPIs . For a telecommunication channel that is inactive or performing inadequately connectivity manager can exploit at least one routing criteria to select a telecommunication channel and direct routing component to deliver and receive traffic through the selected telecommunication channel. The at least one routing criteria can be part of routing criteria which a memory element register database file etc. within memory .

In the illustrated embodiment a processor not shown that is part of server s can be configured to enable or can enable at least in part the functionality of gateway node or one or more components therein. To at least such end and as described supra the processor not shown can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions stored in memory . In alternative or additional embodiments one or more of connectivity manager or routing component can reside within memory stored as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions that can be executed by the processor not shown to implement the functionality of such component s as described supra. In certain embodiments gateway node can include or be functionally coupled to at least one processor configured to enable or that can enable at least in part the functionality of gateway node or one or more components therein. To at least that end the at least one processor can operate in the same or substantially the same manner as the processor not shown that is part of server s and has been described supra.

As described supra to enable retention of femtocell wireless service a network server can provision at least one femtocell AP or at least one home gateway node. In addition retention of such service also includes monitoring of performance of backhaul link s and related telecommunication channels e.g. VPN tunnels . illustrates an example embodiment of OSS BSS in accordance with aspects described herein. Provisioning server s can include at least one server that can provision at least one a group of home gateway nodes and a group of femtocell access points that can be employed to retain femtocell wireless service as described herein. The at least one server can provision each of such groups in accordance with a specific policy which can be retained in policy storage in an embodiment a server within provisioning server s can enable to configure the specific policy. In one or more scenarios the at least one server provisions each of such groups at a time of or after installation of a femtocell access point and prior to activation of a femto AP linked to at least one of such groups. It should be appreciated that in alternative scenarios at least one of the group of home gateway nodes or the group of femtocell APs can be provision after activation of the femto AP linked to at least one of such groups. Configuration of a policy can include at least one of generation deletion or modification storage in memory integration or the like. In an aspect the at least one server can supply a list that identifies each home gateway node in the group of home gateway nodes or a list that identifies each femtocell AP in the group of femtocell APs. Such list s can be delivered to a home gateway node or a femtocell AP. In addition the at least one server can supply one or more security credentials encryption key s encrypted passcode s etc. associated with one or more of the group of home gateway nodes or the group of femtocell access points the one or more security credentials are delivered to the home gateway node or the femtocell AP that receives the foregoing list s . Credential storage can retain the one or more security credentials.

Provisioning server s also can include at least one server that configures at least in part one or more secondary telecommunication channels e.g. VPN channel s wireless channels amongst a first home gateway node and a second gateway node. In addition the at least one server can configure one or more secondary telecommunication channels e.g. VPN channel s wireless channels amongst a home gateway node and a fetmocell AP.

In the illustrated example embodiment OSS BSS can include a monitor component that can assess performance of a plurality of packet based protocol tunnels e.g. VPN tunnels per femtocell AP the plurality of packet based protocol tunnels can be established amongst the femtocell AP and a gateway node via at least one home gateway node. Monitor component also can report such performance e.g. deliver or store data that records such performance. In certain embodiments monitor component can be part of provisioning server s . Monitor component can gauge performance with respect to a set of performance thresholds. A performance threshold in the set of performance thresholds can be specific to a type of telecommunication performance e.g. radio resource availability processing availability data and signal transport quality connection reliability etc. In one or more embodiments a key performance indicator KPIs characterizes a type of telecommunication performance.

A server in provisioning server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to enable or that enable at least part of the functionality of the provisioning server s . The one or more processor can be integrated in or functionally coupled to the server. To enable at least part of the described functionality of the server the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions not shown stored in memory or other memory accessible to the one or more processors. The one or more sets of computer executable code instructions can include program module s or software application s or firmware application s that when executed by the one or more processors not shown implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through at least one of the example methods described in the subject disclosure and that are associated at least in part with functionality of the server in the provisioning server s . In certain embodiments a server in the provisioning server s can be embodied at least in part in one or more sets of computer executable code instructions stored in a memory e.g. accessible to the one or more processors not shown when executed by the one or more processors the one or more sets of computer executable code instructions implement the server and its functionality.

In one or more embodiments a server in provisioning server s can include input output I O interface s not shown that enable at least in part networked communication. Memory can be a centralized element or a distributed element.

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a removable volatile memory or non volatile memory to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the one or more method described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory volatile or non volatile or any computer or machine readable storage medium to implement one or more of the method described herein. Such code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the various methods described herein.

At act at least one performance condition of a primary backhaul link connection is monitored. As described supra a performance condition can be characterized by one or more KPIs that can convey state of connectivity and features of traffic and signaling associated thereto. In one or more embodiments monitoring the performance condition of the primary backhaul link connection includes evaluating at least one KPI related to the primary backhaul link. At act it is determined if the at least one performance condition is below a performance threshold. At act a telecommunication channel is established through at least a secondary backhaul link connection. As indicated supra the telecommunication channel can be a packet based protocol tunnel such as a VPN tunnel based on IPSec or GPRS Tunnel Protocol GTP .

At act it is determined if the current home gateway available to establish a telecommunication channel a packet based protocol channel such as a VPN channel for example through the active backhaul link connection. In an aspect the determining includes transmitting a request for service to the current home gateway and receiving a response e.g. an indication that conveys if the current home gateway is available to establish the telecommunication channel through the active backhaul link connection. As described supra if the current home gateway has radio resources e.g. available bandwidth or processing resources processor capacity available memory etc. to enable the secondary backhaul link connection the response can be affirmative such as an ACK signal or a reply message e.g. a Diameter message that indicates availability of the current home gateway. In contrast if the current home gateway node is unable to establish the secondary backhaul link connection the response can be negative e.g. a no acknowledgement NACK signal or any other type of rejection message.

A negative outcome of the determination at act leads to act at which an alternative home gateway with an active backhaul link connection is identified. At act the alternative home gateway is configured as the current home gateway. In an aspect the configuration is logical and enables screening additional home gateway s with an active backhaul link connection. As an example the configuring includes setting a logic variable a value that indicates the alternative home gateway is to be processed as a current home gateway. In the alternative a positive outcome at act leads to act at which attachment to the current home gateway is performed. In an aspect the femtocell AP that implements the subject example method attaches to the current home gateway attachment is wireless and can be effected according one of various radio communication protocols. In addition the attaching includes authenticating access to the femtocell AP from the current home gateway node and authenticating access from the femtocell AP to the current home gateway node the authenticating exploits at least one security credential provisioned to the femtocell AP and the current home gateway node. At act the telecommunication channel is configured through the active backhaul link connection.

Regarding example method in an aspect a home gateway node or one or more components therein can effect e.g. execute the subject example method. In another aspect one or more processors configured to provide or that provide at least part of the functionality to the home gateway node also can enact at least in part the subject example method. At act a current home gateway with an active primary backhaul link connection is identified. Identifying the current home gateway can include scanning a wireless environment in vicinity of the home gateway node that effects example method and processing e.g. decoding analyzing or storing wireless pilot signal s collected as part of the scanning. A component e.g. scanner component in the home gateway node that effects the subject example method can execute at least in part the subject act. At act it is determined if the current home gateway node is available to establish a secondary backhaul link connection. In an aspect the determining includes transmitting a request for service to the current home gateway and receiving a response e.g. an indication that conveys if the current home gateway is available to establish the secondary backhaul link connection. As described supra if the current home gateway has radio resources e.g. available bandwidth or processing resources processor capacity available memory etc. to enable the secondary backhaul link connection the response can be affirmative such as an ACK signal or a reply message e.g. a Diameter message that indicates availability of the current home gateway. In contrast if the current home gateway node is unable to establish the secondary backhaul link connection the response can be negative e.g. a no acknowledgement NACK signal or any other type of rejection message.

A negative outcome of the determination at act leads to act at which an alternative home gateway with an active primary backhaul link connection is identified. At act the alternative home gateway is configured as the current home gateway. In an aspect the configuration is logical and enables screening additional home gateway s with an active backhaul link connection. As an example the configuring includes setting a logic variable a value that indicates the alternative home gateway is to be processed as a current home gateway. In the alternative a positive outcome at act leads to act at which the secondary backhaul link connection is established. At act a telecommunication channel e.g. a VPN tunnel with a femtocell AP via the secondary backhaul link connection is enabled.

Various advantages emerge from the aspects or features described in the subject disclosure. For example customer satisfaction is improved through allowance of always on connectivity. In addition such always on connectivity can provided differently to different customer segments. Always on or substantially always on connectivity also preserves revenue for the service provider or network operators since outage of usage based services can be mitigated or avoided even in scenarios in which a primary WAN VPN connection is compromised e.g. lost . As another example applications and related services that are bandwidth intensive can be supported without substantive detriment to performance of the service a plurality of telecommunication channels e.g. VPN tunnels can enable such applications and related services. Accordingly the subject disclosure can enable new revenue generation. As yet another example interaction of subscribers with customer support staff that generally can result from loss of service or related problems can be mitigated or eliminated. Thus service provider costs can be reduced. In the subject disclosure enablement of the always on or substantially always on connectivity does not cause changes to femtocell deployment architectures and preserves aspects of management and provisioning of ID codes or tokens of wireless devices that can be part of an access control list associated with deployed femtocell APs. Accordingly the various features or aspects described herein are superior to solution for always on connectivity that rely on connection amongst disparate femtocell access points or connection amongst a wireless device served by a primary femto AP and a secondary femto AP.

As it is employed in the subject disclosure the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition memory elements described herein can be affixed removable or a combination thereof.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through code instructions or program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

It should be appreciated that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated through femtocell access point s and associated coverage such aspects or features also can be exploited in confined coverage access point s that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example Wi Fi wireless fidelity or picocell telecommunication. Moreover aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Furthermore substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies. Further yet various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are described in connection with a home gateway node. However such aspects features or advantages can be accomplished for substantially any CPE that serves as a local gateway device or local gateway node for a confined coverage AP even though such CPE can be deployed in an enterprise facility e.g. a factory an office building . . . rather than a home.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

