---

title: Fees and foreign currency exchange calculation
abstract: Various methods, apparatus, and systems are disclosed for calculating a fee linked to an online financial transaction, with improved flexibility and availability through caching and refreshing of fee calculation data. In one embodiment, a method includes extracting fee calculation data into a data cache associated with control data that is updated in response to refreshing of the data cache; receiving a fee calculation request linked to an online transaction associated with a fee type, a country code, and a client identifier; and then selecting, by looking up the data cache, a base fee from either a default fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding fee associated with the client identifier. The method further includes calculating a transaction fee for the online transaction based at least in part on the base fee; and verifying the control data to transmit the calculated transaction fee.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430759&OS=09430759&RS=09430759
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09430759
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140908
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 828 013 filed Jun. 30 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to Internet commerce and more particularly to methods apparatus and systems for calculating fees for online financial services.

The number of financial transactions over the Internet is growing rapidly with the acceptance and growth of online commerce online banking and so forth. Typical electronic financial transactions can involve the use of credit cards debit cards and other electronic payment services for the payment of goods services bills personal debts foreign currency exchanges donations and so forth.

A number of companies offer electronic payment or funds transfer services such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such electronic payment services naturally charge for the provision of such services typically on a per transaction basis and often include fixed or static transaction charges. Thus conventional transaction charges have been based on fixed dimensions of calculation that do not change over time or incur a significant cost to change. However a need has arisen for the capability to easily adjust charges to adapt to new market conditions and or to facilitate agreements with merchants.

Accordingly there is a growing need for a flexible extensible dynamic and auditable fee framework to address the problems of defining and assigning transaction charges for online financial services.

The present disclosure provides an easily adaptable extensible dynamic and auditable fee calculation system apparatus and method in many different embodiments.

One of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a method of calculating a fee for an online transaction. The method includes receiving a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier and then selecting using a microprocessor an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount. The method further includes applying using the microprocessor at least one adjustment to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee the at least one adjustment being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true. The associated condition set may include one or more conditions.

Another of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a method of calculating a fee for an online transaction. The method includes receiving a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier and accessing a cached database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code. The method further includes selecting using a microprocessor an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount and then applying using the microprocessor a plurality of adjustments to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee each of the plurality of adjustments being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true.

Yet another of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a fee calculation server. The server includes a communication interface configured to receive a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier a database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code and a processor coupled to a memory. The processor is programmed to calculate a final fee by determining whether an overriding base fee is associated with the financial transaction selecting an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount and applying at least one adjustment to the initial base fee to calculate the final fee the at least one adjustment being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present disclosure relates generally to online financial transactions and more particularly to methods apparatus and systems for determining and providing fees for financial transaction services.

It is understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. In addition the present disclosure may repeat or use similar reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

The following definitions will apply throughout this document according to aspects of the present disclosure.

Fee type a categorization of different ways to apply fees or a categorization of different online financial transactions to which fees are applied e.g. receiver fee personal payment fee withdrawal fee currency exchange fee.

Adjustment an optional transaction percentage and or a fixed amount that is added to or subtracted from a base fee when a condition or a plurality of conditions are met or are determined to be true.

Condition a logical test true false for a particular statement which may include Boolean comparison operators such as AND OR EQUAL TO GREATER THAN LESS THAN and so forth e.g. the funding source is a credit card and the payment flow is a virtual terminal the transaction amount is less than 10 the sender country is Germany the receiver country is the United States the payment flow is a direct credit card or a virtual terminal the transaction is cross border time based conditions such as an active time or an expiration time for the adjustment and minimum or maximum fee after an adjustment.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method of calculating a fee for an online financial transaction according to various aspects of the present disclosure. Method begins at block in which a fee calculation request is received by a server for example by a fees and foreign currency exchange FFX server which is further described below. The fee calculation request is linked to an online financial transaction. The financial transaction is associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier. The method continues with decision block in which the applicability of an overriding base fee is determined. In one aspect the FFX server may determine whether an overriding base fee is associated with the financial transaction or a client identifier. If yes the overriding base fee is looked up and used as an initial base fee as shown in block . If no a default base fee is looked up based on a fee type and a country code associated with the financial transaction and used as an initial base fee as shown in block . In other words the server selects an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction. The initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount. In one aspect the FFX server may look up overriding and default base fee data from a database to determine the initial base fee to be associated with the financial transaction. Finally at step at least one adjustment is applied to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee to be charged for the financial transaction.

It is understood that additional process steps may be performed to complete the calculation of a final fee linked to the online financial transaction. For example additional processes may occur before in between and after the steps shown and described above with respect to .

For example in one aspect of the present disclosure the fee type associated with the financial transaction is one of a receiver fee a personal payment fee a withdrawal fee a withdrawal return fee an automatic teller machine atm cash advance fee or a currency exchange fee. In another aspect of the present disclosure the overriding base fee is a promotional base fee or a contractual base fee. In another aspect the at least one adjustment changes both the transaction percentage and the fixed amount of the initial base fee. In another aspect the at least one adjustment is applied if an associated condition set is determined to be true. A condition of the condition set may be selected from a logical test for a transaction amount a funding source a sender country a receiver country a payment flow type a cross border transaction a foreign currency exchange or a combination thereof. In another aspect the condition includes a time constraint or a maximum or minimum fee constraint. In another aspect the method further comprises applying a discount transaction percentage to the initial base fee determined by a dynamic volume tier associated with the client identifier. The dynamic volume tier may be determined by a monthly total payment volume associated with the client identifier. In another aspect the method further comprises applying a plurality of adjustments to the initial base fee to calculate the final fee. In yet another aspect the method further comprises accessing a cached database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code. A registration cycle may also be included in which data about a client a client device and or a client account are obtained and linked.

Referring now to a flowchart is illustrated showing another method of calculating a fee for an online financial transaction according to various aspects of the present disclosure. At block a calculation request is sent from a client device see also a client device in and received by a calculation engine of a fee calculation server see also a FFX server in via a network e.g. a network in . The calculation engine may look up data from a database via a data access portion of the fee calculation server that refreshes and caches the data from database . It is understood that although client device calculation engine data access portion and database are illustrated as being juxtaposed next to one another the client device server and database do not need to be physically adjacent but may only be in operable communication with one another.

In one aspect the calculation request may be provided to the fee calculation server before during or after the financial transaction for which the fee calculation request is made. In one embodiment a user of a client device will have already registered or will register with the fee calculation server or another server that allows the fee calculation server to recognize and or authenticate the client device the user of the client device and or a user s funding instrument. This may be done through login usernames passwords and or computer identifiers. In this regard it will be appreciated that the client device user will provide account information to the fee calculation server over a network through for example a secure connection between the fee calculation server and respective client devices. As a result of such registration the fee calculation server may store an identifier that may be used to identify the particular client device and associated account as having an account maintained by the fee calculation server and or a third party service provider. The identifier may be implemented for example as one or more cookies Flash store objects operating system registry entries hardware identifiers or other types of identifiers. The client identifier may be used for later determination of an overriding base fee as will be further explained below.

The calculation engine then generates and saves a reader view identification as shown in block in order to subsequently verify a version of the data cache being used for the fee calculation. When the reader view identification is verified after a fee calculation as being identical to the original value the fee calculation may be sent to the client. If the reader view identification is not identical potential incorrect or inconsistent data concerns may arise and the fee may be recalculated. In one aspect the reader view identification is a non decreasing integer that is incremented each time a cache view is exchanged and or swapped.

At block the method continues with a check for an overriding base fee or a determination of whether an overriding base fee is applicable for the financial transaction. The applicability of an overriding base fee may be checked based upon the client identifier the fee type associated with the financial transaction and or the country code associated with the financial transaction. In one aspect the calculation engine may determine whether an overriding base fee identifier is associated with the financial transaction or the client identifier as shown in decision block . If yes the overriding base fee is used as the initial base fee as shown in block . If no a default base fee is determined or looked up based on a fee type and a country code associated with the financial transaction as shown in block and the default base fee is then used as the initial base fee as shown in block . An overriding base fee may be applied to groups of clients e.g. groups of merchants for scalability and may also be used for custom pricing that replaces country pricing. In one example an overriding base fee may include a promotional rate such as 0 receiver fees for a limited time or a contractual rate for a particular client such as a particular transaction percentage with zero fixed amount for a particular large volume client.

The method continues with block in which an adjustment or a plurality of adjustments to the initial base fee are gathered or collected and then the adjustments are evaluated to determine whether the adjustments should be applied to the initial base fee as shown in block . The method continues to an adjustment evaluation section .

Adjustment evaluation section determines whether an associated condition set including a condition or a plurality of conditions to applying an adjustment to the initial base fee is met or true. If the condition set is met or true the adjustment is applied to the initial base fee. If the condition set is not met or false the adjustment is not applied to the initial base fee. At block all conditions for each adjustment is gathered and then a condition tree is built using the adjustment conditions and the calculation request as shown in block . At decision block the method continues with a determination of whether a condition tree is evaluated to be true . If no the adjustment associated with the failed condition tree is ignored as shown in block . If yes the adjustment associated with the true condition tree is applied to the initial base fee as shown in block .

In one aspect dynamic volume tiers may be applied as an adjustment to the initial base fee. Volume tiers are defined as discount adjustments of varying degree based upon a volume of fees per client identifier processed by the fee calculation server or a third party service provider. In one example a number of volume tiers may be defined by different minimum and maximum volumes and each tier may be associated with a different discount adjustment with volume tiers having larger volumes being associated with larger discount adjustments. In yet another example a volume tier discount adjustment may have a condition of a certain fee volume range from a client identifier before being applied to the initial fee. In other embodiments a volume tier discount may be determined through a lookup table and may not be applied as a conditional adjustment. The volume of fees for determining a volume tier may be based on a client s month to date volume a monthly average of fees over three months apply to all currencies for a client or may be determined by other volume based parameters. In one embodiment a batch tool may run on a daily basis to daily recalculate client volume based parameters.

The method continues from block to block in which all applied adjustments are summed into a transaction percentage and a fixed amount. At block the summed adjustments are applied or added to the initial base fee. At block the final fee is calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount and the fixed amount.

At decision block the method continues with a determination whether the reader view identifier is identical to the stored reader view identifier from block in order to provide the calculated final fee to the same client requester or fee calculation requester taking into consideration potential incorrect or invalid data in the calculation resulting from a cache exchange or swap.

If yes i.e. the two numbers are the same the server provides the final fee to the client as shown in block . If no i.e. the two numbers are different the method loops back to block for a recalculation of the fee without returning to the client and to block to save the new reader view identifier. The final fee may be presented to the client device for acceptance of the fee prior to a proposed financial transaction during the transaction or after completion of the financial transaction. Prompts at the client device may be displayed by a browser application and the user interface at the client device may be configured to respond to commands provided by a user through a suitable user input device of the buyer device such as a mouse keyboard or other input device.

In one aspect the calculation engine may look up a database or databases for the determinations and or calculations described above as shown by double sided arrows A through H between calculation engine and a data access portion of the server which accesses the database . Such a database or databases e.g. FFX database in may include overriding base fee data default base fee data adjustment data and condition data fee type data country code data volume tier data client identifier data and so forth. The database may further have client account fund data including account fund amounts history of transactions fund distributions etc. Client accounts may be associated with individual users or groups such as corporations or charitable organizations. The server may also have access to other data such as tracking data and or data from third parties such as eBay Google Yahoo etc. The data to be accessed for the determinations and or calculations may be accessed in raw data form via codes via identifiers or other links.

Data access portion includes a data access interface coupled to a data cache section including a reader view block a writer view block and a control data block . Reader view block includes a static copy of the writer view data and the writer view block includes a cache of relevant fee calculation tables from the database . The method further includes using control data from control data block to determine the correct reader view for data look up as shown in block and then accessing the correct table from the reader view as shown in block . Data from the correct table of the reader view is then sent to calculation engine through data access interface as shown by the arrow to data access interface from reader view block .

In one embodiment data access portion of the fee calculation server follows a method of refreshing and caching data for making dynamic data e.g. month to date volume of fees readily available for lookup by calculation engine . A data refreshing method begins when starting up the fee calculation server as shown in block . The data refreshing method continues to the start of a data refresh process as shown in block . Data is extracted from database and handed to data access portion of the server as shown in block . The method continues with block in which all extracted data is stored in the cache of the writer view block and at block the cache is loaded. At decision block a determination is made whether data is available in the reader view block . If yes a certain refresh time is applied such as 50 minutes as shown in block . If no the control data in control data block is incremented to swap the reader view with the writer view as shown in block . Another refresh time is applied such as 30 minutes as shown in block and then the refresh process is terminated as shown in block . The method loops back to restart the refresh process at block .

It is noted that in one aspect the fee calculation server may support more than two views onto the relevant fee calculation data. The logic behind the reader view identification may only redo the calculation loop back to block from decision block when the writer view has overwritten the original reader view. For example with four views 0 1 2 3 a reader can start at view 1 and the writer can fill views 2 3 and 0 before recalculating the fee. Once the writer is pointing again to view 1 a data consistency or invalidity issue may arise and hence the fee calculation server may redo the calculation prior to sending the fee to the client. In another example the reader view identification may be created by ID mod 4 such that a reader view ID of 1 5 9 13 would all equate to looking at view 1 of 4 0 1 2 3 .

Referring now to an example decision hierarchy for defining a base fee and an example decision hierarchy including a dynamic volume tier adjustment to the base fee are illustrated respectively according to various aspects of the present disclosure. The decision hierarchy includes a fee type row a country code row and a base fee transaction percentage row . Accordingly a fee type is first switched on and then a user s country code is switched on to reach a base fee. Thus two decision points exist before arriving at a base fee. In other embodiments the decision hierarchy for defining a base fee may be alternatively organized such that a country code is first switched on prior to fee type.

In one example fee type row includes a receiver fee type a foreign currency exchange fx fee type a personal payment p2p fee type and so on until an xyz fee type denoting a last fee type in the decision hierarchy. As many fee types as desired may be placed within the decision hierarchy. In a further example fee type row may further include a withdrawal fee type a withdrawal return fee type and or an atm cash advance fee type.

Beneath each fee type is a plurality of country code designations in country code row such as the United States US Australia AU and so on. As many country codes as desired may be placed within the decision hierarchy beneath each fee type.

Beneath each country code is a base fee transaction percentage in transaction percentage row to be used as a default base fee transaction percentage such as percentages a through y which are shown as examples. The example percentages a through y may be the same or different from one another and may include decimal numbers to varying degrees.

Referring now to an example volume tier table is shown according to various aspects of the present disclosure. Volume tier table includes a country code column a minimum volume column a maximum volume column a currency code column a volume tier column and an identifier column . Thus volume tiers may be dynamically assigned and applied to a client by their month to date volume of fees or another volume based parameter which the server may check on database refresh and caching. In one example the first group of volume tiers having a country code of default and a currency code of USD may be applied to merchants with a US dollar volume and a country code that does not match any other tiers. The second group of volume tiers having a country code of US and a currency code of USD may be applied to merchants with a US dollar volume and a US residence. The third group of volume tiers having a country code of JP and a currency code of USD may be applied to merchants with a US dollar volume and a Japanese residence. The fourth group of volume tiers having a country code of default and a currency code of EUR may be applied to merchants with a European euro volume and a country code that does not match any other tiers. The fifth group of volume tiers having a country code of FR and a currency code of EUR may be applied to merchants with a European euro volume and a French residence.

Referring now to a final fee a base fee block and a fee adjustment block are illustrated as part of an example final fee calculation according to various aspects of the present disclosure. In one embodiment final fee includes a plurality of fees for each desired currency such as the US dollar the Australian dollar the British pound the Chinese yen and the Polish zlotys. Base fee block includes a transaction percentage of 1.9 and a plurality of fixed amounts for a plurality of currencies based upon a looked up fee type. Adjustment block includes a discount percentage of 0.10 and a plurality of fixed amounts for a plurality of currencies based upon a looked up fee type and or client identifier in one example. Adjustment block further includes a plurality of adjustment conditions such as the day equals July 4and the country code is the US. The final fee is the sum of the selected base fee in block and the fee adjustment in block if the adjustment conditions are met or determined to be true.

For an example financial transaction involving 200 pounds in the United States on July 4 the final fee is calculated as follows 3.832001.9 0.102000.10 0.13 the fee adjustment is applied as the condition set is met .

For an example financial transaction involving 200 pounds in the United States not on July 4 the final fee is calculated as follows 3.902001.9 0.100 the fee adjustment is not applied as adjustment conditions are not true or met 

In one example the transaction percentages and fixed amounts are treated separately and transaction percentages only apply to the original transaction amount. In yet another example numbers may be rounded if necessary at the end of a final fee calculation. In yet another example adjustments may change the base fee transaction percentage the base fee fixed amount or both.

Referring now to a block diagram is illustrated of a networked system configured to provide various fee calculation requests and fee calculations related to financial transactions over the network conducted by various clients on the network. In one embodiment system includes a fee calculation server also referred to as a fees and foreign currency exchange FFX server and a client device of a plurality of client devices in communication with the FFX server over a network .

FFX server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider e.g. PayPal offering flexible and efficient fee calculations to online clients such as merchant sellers buyers and or any entity involved in an online financial transaction such as sales currency exchange withdrawal deposits etc. In one embodiment the payment service provider may provide services in exchange for payment such as by commission or a transaction fee to be received over network in one example. In one embodiment FFX server may be provided and or operated by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif.

FFX server is configured to communicate over network with a user interface and or a communication interface such as a browser application. For example in one embodiment a client device undergoing a financial transaction such as withdrawal of funds receipt of funds currency exchange or other financial transaction may interact with FFX server through a browser application over network in order to provide information to the server related to selected financial transactions such as transaction costs countries involved in a financial transaction client and or user identifiers and so on. In one aspect communication interface is configured to receive a fee calculation request from client device wherein the fee calculation request is linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier. Client device provides at least the fee type the country code and the client identifier associated with the financial transaction upon the fee calculation request.

FFX server includes a processor coupled to a memory holding a fee calculation engine . In one aspect the processor is configured to associate a fee type and a country code to a financial transaction access a cached database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code determine the applicability of an overriding base fee determine a default base fee if an overriding base fee is not applicable select between an overriding base fee and a default base fee to provide an initial base fee determine the applicability of any adjustments to the initial base fee based upon met conditions apply any applicable adjustments to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee and charge a client account the final fee for a requested financial transaction. The processor is further configured to apply a discount transaction percentage from the initial base fee based upon volume tiers associated with the client identifier wherein a volume tier is determined by a monthly total payment volume or other volume based parameter associated with the client identifier.

In this regard FFX server may maintain a plurality of client accounts and includes an FFX database having overriding base fee data default base fee data initial base fee data fee type data country code data adjustment and condition data volume tier data and or client identifier data. FFX database may further have client account fund data including account fund amounts history of transactions fund distributions etc. Client accounts may be associated with individual users or groups such as corporations or charitable organizations. FFX server may also have access to other data such as tracking data and or data from third parties such as eBay Google Yahoo etc. The data in FFX database may be kept in raw data form via codes via identifiers or other links. FFX database is not limited to a single database but may be comprised of a plurality of databases in one aspect. Furthermore FFX database is not limited to being physically contained within server but may be located in a separate geographic location from the server while maintaining operable communication with the other components of FFX server .

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments client device may be implemented as a wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or other types of computing devices. Client device may also be part of its own computer network.

As shown client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit a financial transaction over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view or publish information over the Internet.

Client device also includes one or more FFX applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the client. In one aspect FFX application may display a client user interface in connection with browser application that is configured to allow the client to select a fee type country code currency exchange information dates and the like to be associated with the financial transaction. The application may also confirm the final fee with the client user and acceptance of such a fee associated with a proposed financial service.

Client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the client device. For example in various embodiments such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network and or other types of applications.

As also shown in client device may include one or more client identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of client device or other appropriate identifiers. In one embodiment client identifier may be used by FFX server to track selected financial transactions track account distributions associate a client with a particular account maintained by the FFX server and the like.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Referring now to in conjunction with a block diagram is illustrated of a computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments of the present disclosure including the FFX server or the client device . In various implementations the client device may comprise a personal computing device capable of communicating with the network such as a personal computer laptop cell phone PDA etc. and the FFX server may comprise a network computing device such as a network server. Hence it should be appreciated that each of the apparatus and may be implemented at least in part by computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice embodiments of the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

The present disclosure provides for many different embodiments. One of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a method of calculating a fee for an online transaction. The method includes receiving a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier and then selecting using a microprocessor an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount. The method further includes applying using the microprocessor at least one adjustment to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee the at least one adjustment being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true.

Another of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a method of calculating a fee for an online transaction. The method includes receiving a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier and accessing a cached database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code. The method further includes selecting using a microprocessor an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount and then applying using the microprocessor a plurality of adjustments to the initial base fee to calculate a final fee each of the plurality of adjustments being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true.

Yet another of the broader forms of the present disclosure involves a fee calculation server. The server includes a communication interface configured to receive a fee calculation request linked to an online financial transaction associated with a fee type a country code and a client identifier a database including a plurality of overriding base fees each linked to a client identifier and a plurality of default base fees each linked to a fee type and a country code and a processor coupled to a memory. The processor is programmed to calculate a final fee by determining whether an overriding base fee is associated with the financial transaction selecting an initial base fee from either a default base fee determined by the fee type and the country code or from an overriding base fee associated with the financial transaction wherein the initial base fee includes a transaction percentage and a fixed amount and applying at least one adjustment to the initial base fee to calculate the final fee the at least one adjustment being applied when an associated condition set is determined to be true.

Advantageously the present disclosure provides a versatile dynamic and efficient fee calculation method server and system for a large number of financial transactions over a network.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

