---

title: Real estate analysis system
abstract: A real estate analysis system that provides an integrated approach for gathering available real estate data and synthesizing the real estate data for various uses by various users. The real estate data may be real time data, historical data, and/or most recent data. The processing of the data utilizes cloud resources in a cloud computing architecture. In addition, cloud resources are used to store various accumulated real estate data in a manner such that the cloud resources can quickly process calculations and have the results returned to an end user who requested the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09082155&OS=09082155&RS=09082155
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09082155
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140120
---
This application is a continuation under 35 USC 120 of U.S. Application 12 396 939 filed on Mar. 3 2009 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

It is a well known technique to use comparable sales for determining a listing price for a piece of real estate. The comparable sales information is available in one or more databases. Typically these databases are only available to real estate agents who are members of an association of realtors or a group of associations. Collectively these databases are referred to as a Multiple Listing Service MLS .

Most real estate broker s websites have tools that allow potential buyers to access a limited portion of the listing information in the MLS. For example potential buyers may view available properties based on location type of property single family lease vacant land duplex property features number of bedrooms and bathrooms and price ranges. However once a potential buyer has identified a property on the website the potential buyer must usually contact a listing agent or another agent to view the property.

There are also websites that provide a range of values for a home. Some of these websites use tax assessment information in addition to listing information and sales information. Typically home values based on tax assessments are updated once a year. Home values based on sales and listing information may be updated whenever a new comparable house is sold and listed respectively or may be updated on a periodic basis.

While the MLS provides valuable information the MLS does not efficiently reflect real estate trends. Real estate trends occur over time and cause a noticeable pattern or change in the general direction of the real estate industry. When the trends begin the impact of the trends is not reflected in the MLS information and tax assessments for several months e.g. until a sale is updated causing a lag period. During this lag period the MLS information does not provide sellers and purchasers accurate information for them to determine a realistic home value.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

This disclosure is drawn inter alia to methods apparatus computer programs and systems related to a real estate analysis system. In overview the real estate analysis system is configured to input any number of data points which may affect the real estate market. The real estate analysis system performs processing on data points using a cloud computing infrastructure. The cloud computing infrastructure is configured to provide a fast evaluation of the potentially rapidly changing data points. Thus the real estate analysis system provides real estate information that better reflects current real estate trends and incorporates real estate related news. The real estate information may include values for a piece of real estate availability of real estate availability of purchasers and or the like.

The cloud is described in greater detail below in conjunction with . Briefly described cloud is a cluster computing infrastructure available over a network that provides distributed parallel computing functionality. The cloud includes multiple computing systems interconnected over a network to perform computing tasks collaboratively. The cloud may offer vastly superior computing functionality in comparison with conventional computing devices. Cloud computing may be used to move the processing of certain applications off of many individual independent computing devices to a centralized processing location which simplifies the administration of those applications. In addition the users of the many individual independent computing devices may experience superior performance using the cloud because the cloud offers access to an aggregate of computing power that is superior to the local computing power of the individual independent computing devices. Therefore the cloud with all its computing power may perform intensive tasks efficiently and cost effectively.

The user device is a computing device that a user may use to interact with or perform tasks using the cloud . The user device is described in greater detail in conjunction with . Briefly described the user device may be any computing device mobile or fixed that interacts with the cloud over a network not shown . Several examples of the user device may include one or more dumb terminals desktop computers laptop computers or any other mobile devices . Because the cloud performs the intense processing it is not necessary for user device to have substantial processing power or memory. Therefore typically user device may be configured with minimal processing power and memory to help conserve battery life.

The middleware may manage processing within cloud and interactions with user device . One example implementation of an example middleware architecture is described in greater detail below in conjunction with . Briefly described the middleware may automatically distribute tasks among the several computing devices not shown in the cloud in order to fulfill requests by one or more user devices . For example middleware may include components that provide authentication data transfer response handling and the like. Middleware may be configured to provide results to a user device after analysis is performed on data points using resources in the cloud .

The example middleware shown in may include a user interaction interface a data point collector a systems manager a provisioning tool a monitoring and metering component and a service catalog . Each of the middleware components may interact with one or more of the other middleware components to fulfill a request by a user device . In addition some of the middleware components may reside within cloud outside of cloud or parts of the component may reside both within or outside the cloud. The user interaction interface may allow a user to request a service from the service catalog . The request may be passed to the systems manager to find the correct resources in the cloud . The systems manager may then call the provisioning tool to carve out resources in the cloud . The provisioning tool may deploy a requested stack or web application as well. The monitoring and metering component may optionally track the usage of the cloud so that used resources may be attributed to a certain user device . Data point collector may collect information related to the request from one or more data sources associated with applicable data points . The systems manager may send the collected information is to the real estate processing modules for processing within cloud .

The one or more real estate processing modules shown collectively as real estate processing module s may include processing such as rule and weight processing on collected data points data point manager for obtaining and storing data points and any other processing pertinent to analyzing the data points in order to fulfill the request from user device . For example other processing may include custom logic that can be changed based on an importance of the data point determined by a user and or other individual interested in the real estate market. The customizable algorithms may take into account currency changes mortgage rates and the like. While the real estate processing modules are shown collectively as real estate processing module in one skilled in the art will appreciate that the processing modules may be distributed over multiple computing devices and portions of the processing modules may be executed on multiple computing devices. In addition one or more real estate processing modules or a portion of a real estate processing module may execute within cloud user device and or as middleware .

Real estate analysis system also includes one or more data points shown collectively as data point . Each data point may represent data available from an associated source of data e.g. data source applicable to the real estate market. The data source may be publicly available data and or private data. Some example data sources include public agencies courts real estate companies and the like. Each data point is obtained from the corresponding data source via a data point collector and or a data point manager if the data point is available via the cloud .

Data point may include any targeting data. Data point may include real estate listings data that show real estate that is on the market for sale. Data point may include real estate purchase data such as information available on the MLS and or in transfer of title documents available via government agencies. Data point may include global trend data such as polls concerning the most desirable locations to live. Data point may include local trend data such as favorable school test scores. Data point may include financial data such as interest rates currency fluctuations and or price of commodities such as fuel. In addition other types of real estate data are envisioned as data points in the real estate analysis system. Examples of other data points may include local and national news commission rulings and findings demographic information employment statistics average income in an area and the like. For example a news story reporting the finding of toxic waste near an area or a natural disaster in an area will affect the market analysis for real estate in that area.

The data points may be available from the corresponding data source on a real time basis stored in a cloud storage system shown in and or updated when requested. The data source for each data point may push the data associated with the data point on a pre determined interval of time or may wait for a request from the real estate analysis system to update the data. Historical data for each data point may be stored in the cloud storage system using database techniques.

As illustrated in the cloud may include multiple computing devices servers . The multiple servers may be interconnected with a local area and or wide area network . One or more of the servers may include a data storage system . The data storage system may be maintained by a server such as database server . Database server may provide historical data to the real estate processing modules and may allow the real estate processing modules to store data on the data storage system for later retrieval.

The user interface application may include user interaction interface for handling the interface between user device and middleware . A user application programming interface API may link the user interface applications with the application engines . The application engines may include multiple engine architectures such as Flash A HTML B Java C or other languages D. The business components may include system and applications management A media management B communications C metadata D and security E and may incorporate business logic adaptation F. The business logic adaptation F may include custom logic that is modifiable to account for changing trends. The system and applications management A may include systems manager provisioning tool and or monitoring and metering . Communications C may include data point collector that communicates with different data sources to obtain their respective data points . Media management B may include a service catalog that maintains information about different services that are available for processing by cloud . A system application programming interface API may link the business components with the hardware abstraction layer . Hardware abstraction layer hides the differences in hardware from the rest of the middleware components.

Depending on the desired configuration processor can be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor can include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core can include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller can also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller can be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory can be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include one or more real estate processing modules and or one or more middleware components that are arranged in accordance with the present disclosure and that may operate on program data such real estate data points as described in conjunction with . In addition application may include a global positioning module configured to determine a current location for computing device . When computing device is configured as a user device the global positioning module may be used to specify a location of the real estate for which the user query pertains. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device can have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller can be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices can be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media can include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media can be part of device .

Computing device can also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output interfaces peripheral interfaces and communication interfaces to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which can be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V port . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which can be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which can be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication via one or more communication ports . The communication connection is one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. A modulated data signal can be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein can include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device can be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device can also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

Sequence illustrates sending a user query Send User Query from a user device . The user query may request a market analysis for a piece of real estate in a specified location and or a general market analysis for real estate in the specified location. A user may enter the specified location on the user device . In another embodiment the user device may include a GPS module that automatically determines the specified location. The specified location is then transmitted with the query. The query may be sent wirelessly using conventional wireless communication techniques such as cellular phone communication techniques BLUETOOTH WI FI and or may be sent using a wired network technique such as IP based networks.

Sequence illustrates receiving the user query Receive User Query by middleware . Once the user query is received by middleware at sequence the middleware obtains data points for the user query Obtain Data Points for User Query . The data points are related to the specified location of the real estate and applicable to the query. Sequence illustrates the middleware sending a request Sent Request for Data Points to one or more data sources for data points. The middleware may determine which data points to retrieve based on a street address GPS positioning data specified city or the like. At sequence the data points may be obtained DB Lookup or Realtime from a database DB lookup associated with the data source and or as real time data from one or more data sources such as a multiple listing service a financial website a government website and the like. Data source may maintain the data points using a mechanism and format applicable to the data source . For example the financial website may provide a current interest rate pushed from the federal government and the multiple listing service may provide comparable sales located in a database. At sequence the data points are sent in a reply Reply Data Points to middleware .

At sequence the middleware may provide the data points and service information to cloud resources that synthesize a result Provide Data Points and Service Information Synthesize Results . The cloud resources may include servers configured to provide parallel processing one or more storage system for storing data points and networks that allow the servers to communicate with each other. The middleware may determine which cloud resources to utilize using provisioning tool shown in . The service information may specify the services e.g. real estate processing modules shown in that the cloud resources execute to obtain the result.

At sequence middleware may send a synthesis query Send Synthesis Query to the cloud resources based on the outcome of the provisioning tool. At sequence the specified cloud resources may receive the synthesis query Receive Synthesis Query . At sequence the specified cloud resources may determine whether additional data points are needed and whether any of the data points need to be stored using cloud resources Manage Data Points . If additional data points are needed and or some of the data points need to be stored at sequence one or more of the specified cloud resources may send a request Request Additional and or Store Data Points to one or more cloud storage systems for additional data points and or storage of some of the data points. At sequence one or more of the cloud storage systems may perform a database look up for the additional data points and or one or more store operations to store the received data points DB Lookup and or DB Store . At sequence the cloud storage system may send the additional data points Send Additional Data Points to the specified cloud resources and or notifies the cloud resources of a successful unsuccessful storage operation.

At sequence the cloud resources may synthesize a result Synthesize Result with Data Points and Send Reply using the data points and then may send the result Reply Synthesis Results via network to middleware at sequence . In some embodiments the result may be synthesized by weighting the data points retrieved from the query to compute a weighted results. In other embodiments a result may be synthesized using the additional data points retrieved from the cloud storage system and the data points retrieved from the query to estimate an asking price based on a combination history data and current data. Thus the result may include past present and or future real estate modeling scenarios. Stored data points along with real time data may be used to display chronological visual changes to real estate over time. For example data points such as satellite images may show erosion of a piece of real estate over time by winds and or water. Some example queries and their respective results are provided below to help describe implementations of the real estate analysis system.

At sequence middleware may send the results Reply User Query in a reply to the user device that initiated the user query. Middleware may package the result based on the type of user device that requested the user query. This allows the response to be packaged in a manner that is compatible with the user device interface.

The system described above may be used for several purposes. Some of these purposes include monitoring analyzing and reporting real estate information. In addition the system may be used to model scenarios for insurance purposes banking purposes investing purposes and the like. For example the present real estate analysis system may be used to market and gauge the expense and ultimate value of developing a piece of property in a planned development or individual parcel. A user could send a query to obtain data from builders in the local area data regarding prices of materials data regarding other developments in the area data regarding businesses data regarding financing availability data regarding potential purchasers and the like. Based on these data points the cloud may synthesize a result that provides a cost to build time on market number of potential purchasers in area that can afford the real estate and an asking price and other useful real estate information. Because the cloud performs the processing on the data points a significant number of data points may be considered in contrast with conventional systems. In addition the results use updated data and not data that lags the market. Therefore evaluations can change on a moment to moment basis based on different pieces of information.

The processes described above may be implemented using computer executable instructions in software or firmware but may also be implemented in other ways such as with programmable logic electronic circuitry or the like. In some alternative embodiments certain of the operations may even be performed with limited human intervention. Moreover the process is not to be interpreted as exclusive of other embodiments but rather is provided as illustrative only.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a flexible disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While various embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in art. The various embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

