---

title: Apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing
abstract: An apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing which includes a rotary indexer that can hold the bearing, a shaft, a force applying mechanism, a rotating mechanism, a digital displacement indicator, and a recorder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09366611&OS=09366611&RS=09366611
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary at the Navy
number: 09366611
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140925
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Liner wear in a bearing is the primary metric used to determine usable life in lined bearings. Therefore it is very important to quantify the amount of wear on a bearing liner. A liner on or for a bearing can be described but without limitation as a sacrificial wear surface applied circumferentially to a bearing. Measuring liner wear around the entire bearing circumference helps to better quantify the maximum wear being experienced. This helps determine if liner systems do in fact meet certain wear thresholds.

Bearings especially in the military are sometimes used in environments that include contamination and vibrations that may introduce unusual wear patterns. If these bearings are used in critical applications it is very important to accurately analyze bearing liner wear to predict usable life. A liner wear map around the entire bearing circumference may help identify premature failure by identifying features such as secondary wear zones or wear not in the region of the expected loading.

The present invention is directed to an apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to an apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing which includes a rotary indexer that can hold the bearing a shaft a force applying mechanism a rotating mechanism a digital displacement indicator and a recorder.

It is a feature of the invention to provide an apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing for use with lined bearings which are utilized in components found on aircraft and in similar systems.

It is a feature of the invention to provide that an apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing which accurately analyzes bearing wear is able to interpret usable bearing life and provides a map of liner wear around the entire bearing circumference.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing that helps provide detailed information regarding premature bearing liner failures.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a means of nondestructively locating features of interest inside of a lined bearing.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in the apparatus for mapping liner wear of a bearing around the circumference of the bearing includes a rotary indexer that can hold the bearing a shaft a force applying mechanism a rotating mechanism a digital displacement indicator and a recorder . As shown in the bearing has a ball a liner and an outer ring . The outer ring may also be referred to as a race. The liner may be composed of resin polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE fiber composite material or any material that can lubricate the bearing . The ball is disposed within the outer ring while the bearing liner is attached to the inner circumference of the outer ring . The rotary indexer can hold the outer ring of the bearing . The shaft is able to be inserted through a bore of the ball the bore is shown in . The shaft is fixed at both ends such that the shaft is unable to rotate. The force applying mechanism communicates with the shaft such that the force applying mechanism applies constant upward radial force on the shaft which in turn applies upward force on the ball such that the force causes the ball to press against the liner . The rotating mechanism can rotate the rotary indexer and the rotary indexer communicates with the outer ring such that the rotary indexer can rotate the outer ring . The digital displacement indicator determines displacement of the ball from the vertical motion of the shaft . The recorder is for recording the displacement of the ball at various rotational positions of the outer ring and analyzing the displacement to determine liner wear at rotational positions of the outer ring .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military aircraft environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires bearing liner wear diagnosis.

A rotary indexer may be defined but without limitation as a fixture which holds a work piece a bearing and allows rotation of the work piece to align the work piece with discrete angular positions demarcated on the fixture. In one of the preferred embodiments as shown in the bearing being tested is held in the rotary indexer by means of a collet . The collet communicates with the outer ring such that the outer ring and the liner can be rotated by the rotary indexer . The shaft is inserted through the bearing specifically through a bore in the ball . Each end of the shaft is attached to corresponding shaft supports . The shaft supports are connected to the shaft such that the shaft cannot rotationally move. Each shaft support is attached to a mounting plate . The shaft supports are positioned equidistantly around the bearing such that the resultant upwards radial force on the bearing acts on the center of its width. As shown in the rotary indexer may include a rotary encoder wheel for providing discrete rotational positions to be monitored by the recorder . The rotary encoder wheel may include holes interspaced along its circumference which are detectable by an optical interrupter . An optical interrupter may be defined but without limitation as any paired light source and light sensor. In one of the preferred embodiments there are one hundred and eighty holes on the rotary encoder wheel . The preferred embodiment of the optical interrupter shown in includes a yoke with a first yoke arm and a second yoke arm . The two yoke arms and form a u shape that envelopes the rotary encoder wheel and still allows it to spin. The yoke communicates with a light analyzing microcontroller which in turn may communicate with the main microcontroller .

As shown in the force applying mechanism may be a weight system. The weight system may include a weight or weights for applying force a weight bar and two lever arms . The weight s may be disposed at about the center of the weight bar while the lever arms are disposed on opposite ends of the weight bar . Each lever arm communicates to a corresponding mounting plate via mounting plate bolts such that the force applying mechanism or weight mechanism can apply an upward force on the shaft . However any type of force applying system capable of applying a constant not changing with varying bearing displacement or time upward force during the test may be utilized.

A digital displacement indicator may be defined but without limitation as a device which measures relative linear position and relays and or displays the measurement digitally. As shown in the digital displacement indicator may include a stem and may be positioned such that the stem rests on top of the shaft and is lowered to near the middle of its stroke. The digital displacement indicator may be attached to a displacement indicator stand via a displacement indicator lever .

The recorder may be in the form of a microcontroller. In such an embodiment the microcontroller also controls the rotating mechanism and provides power to and monitors the state of the optical interrupter. The light analyzing microcontroller and main microcontroller may all be one microcontroller.

The rotating mechanism rotates the rotary indexer and the outer ring which in turn rotates the liner . As shown in the rotating mechanism may include a drive pulley powered by a motor which moves a belt tensioned by a tensioner idler pulley which rotates a driven pulley attached to the rotary indexer . The driven pulley rotates the rotary indexer at a desired rotational speed.

In operation as the rotary indexer rotates the optical interrupter is interrupted by gaps between holes on the rotary encoder wheel . As the voltage from the optical interrupter changes between its interrupted and non interrupted state the light analyzing microcontroller triggers an interrupt in the main microcontroller such that three hundred and sixty interrupts are triggered for one rotation of the rotary indexer . Each time an interrupt is triggered the main microcontroller takes a measurement from the digital displacement indicator and the measurement is stored in an array. When one rotation of the rotary indexer has completed the main microcontroller stops the motor and analyzes the data in order to determine a baseline non wear value and the magnitude of each measurement relative to its value. The main microcontroller can then save the analyzed data display the analyzed data as a wear map and rotate the bearing to align the digital indicator stem with any desired feature of interest. The main microcontroller also compensates for any free play in the system not caused by liner wear. It compensates by referencing saved calibration data gathered when running the test with a solid metallic bushing in place of the lined bearing and applying that displacement data to the wear analysis of subsequent lined bearing tests.

In operation the rotary indexer is rotated to its zero degree position and the digital displacement indicator is zeroed at the beginning of each test.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

