---

title: Integrated circuit with low phase noise clock distribution network
abstract: An integrated circuit includes a clock distribution circuit and a logic block circuit. The clock distribution circuit is segregated from the logic block circuit to restrict contributors to phase noise to the clock distribution section of the circuit. The clock distribution circuit includes a front-end amplifier which buffers a clock input signal to a differential clock signal. The front-end amplifier is configured with as few components as possible and the components are selected for high current density and sized to minimize contributions to phase noise in the clock distribution circuit. The clock distribution circuit further includes an output latch circuit that receives the output signal of the logic block circuit and the low phase noise differential clock input signal from the front-end amplifier circuit. The output latch circuit re-clocks the final output of the integrated circuit. The output is representative of the output values determined by the logic block circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531356&OS=09531356&RS=09531356
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 09531356
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141013
---
This invention was made with government support under Government Contract No. N00014 12 C 0224 awarded by the Department of the Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure relates to integrated circuits. More particularly the disclosure relates to clock distribution networks implemented in integrated circuits.

In digital circuits phase noise occurs due to errors in the clock edges of the digital circuit. Phase noise in a circuit may arise from various sources. For example fluctuations in current and temperature affect the properties of charge carriers in the conductors of the circuit and introduce random noise. Phase noise also appears as additional frequency components due to short term fluctuations that show up as side bands to the desired signal frequency.

In digital circuits that are clocked using flip flops the output noise of the circuit is determined by clock noise. When using flip flops the output of the flip flop does not change until the next edge of the input clock signal. The clock is the mechanism that causes the flip flop to change states. Since phase noise is a measure of the variation in zero crossings of a signal any noise present in the clock may be seen at the circuit output.

An integrated circuit includes a clock distribution circuit and a logic block circuit. The clock distribution circuit is segregated from the logic block circuit to restrict contributors to phase noise to the clock distribution section of the circuit. The clock distribution circuit includes a front end amplifier which receives a single ended or differential input clock signal and converts a single ended clock input signal to a differential clock signal. The front end amplifier is configured with as few components as possible and the components are selected for high current density and sized to minimize contributions to phase noise in the clock distribution circuit. The clock distribution circuit further includes an output latch circuit configured as a D flip flop circuit. The output latch circuit receives the output signal of the logic block circuit and the low phase noise differential clock input signal from the front end amplifier circuit. The output latch circuit is comprised of components that are selected for minimizing contributions to phase noise in the clock circuit and re clocks the final output of the integrated circuit. The output is representative of the output values determined by the logic block circuit. The output latch circuit is configured to provide a wide output swing and to operate across a wide operating frequency band. The output latch circuit uses emitter followers to provide feedback to the base electrodes of storage transistors which are biased using the output values of the output latch flip flop circuit.

A method for generating a low phase noise output signal of an integrated circuit includes receiving an input clock signal at a front end amplifier circuit. The front end circuit buffers the input clock signal to a differential input clock signal and provides the differential clock signal to the logic block circuit and to an output latch circuit implemented as a D flip flop circuit. The output latch circuit is configured to provide a wide output swing and operated over a wide operating frequency band. The logic block circuit processes the clock signal and an input signal to produce a logic output signal. The logic output signal is provided to the output latch circuit along with the differential clock signal to re clock the logic output signal with the low phase noise differential clock signal to produce a circuit output signal having low phase noise.

When a signal is clocked by a latch such as a flip flop output phase noise is determined by noise introduced in the clock signal. This occurs because when the input signal changes the output of the flip flop does not change until the next edge of the clock. Phase noise is the measurement of a variation in zero crossings of the signal. Since the clock is the mechanism which causes the flip flop to change state noise in the clock is seen directly in the flip flop output. The architecture of integrated circuit of leverages this principle to provide a circuit which isolates phase noise within the clock distribution circuit . Segregating the clock signal circuits from other parts of the integrated circuit permits the isolation of the contributors to phase noise. The clock distribution circuit is implemented using low phase noise techniques that require more power and careful design. Other circuitry in the architecture of integrated circuit that does not contribute to phase noise in the output is configured without regard to phase noise and may be implemented using lower power logic.

The components that contribute to phase noise e.g. clock distribution circuit include components that receive and process the input clock signal . Front end amplifier of integrated circuit is configured to buffer input clock signal . The front end amplifier provides the clock signal to a clock distribution path labeled as . The clock distribution path simultaneously provides a clock signal to logic blocks via a plurality of clock buffers . Clock buffers may be implemented as emitter followers and provide clock signals for the logic block circuit . Configuring buffers as emitter followers produces a high input impedance that does not load down the main signal path of the clock distribution circuit as well as a low output impedance that allows each buffer the ability to drive several logic blocks. Front end amplifier also provides the clock signal to output latch . Output latch is implemented as a D flip flop circuit which receives its clock input as low phase noise clock signal from front end amplifier and its data input from the output of logic block circuitry . The front end amplifier clock distribution path and output latch are configured using the fewest internal components possible. The components making up front end amplifier clock distribution path and output latch are carefully selected and sized such that additional phase noise added to the input clock signal is minimized. By carefully selecting the components within the low phase noise region defined by clock distribution circuit and by clocking the output signal using output latch any phase noise in the output from logic block circuits can be corrected in the final output signal .

The architecture of integrated circuit shown in is implemented with low phase noise as a primary performance metric. The architecture of integrated circuit is based on the concept of segregating or isolating the contributors to phase noise and restricting them from the circuit output . The implementation of the clock distribution stage is optimized for low phase noise. For example the components of front end amplifier are selected for low 1 f noise and have bias filters to remove 1 f contributions from bias circuitry. 1 f noise from biasing and devices within the amplifier itself contribute to phase noise. The 1 f noise generated is mixed with the fundamental signal adding to overall phase noise in output . 1 f noise may be created by shot noise in the case of hetero bipolar transistor HBT devices and by flicker noise in field effect transistor FET devices and some types of poly resistors. Thermal noise may also contribute to phase noise but generally to a lesser extent than 1 f noise which is generally a much larger contributor to phase noise. Since phase noise is measured in relation to the carrier fundamental signal a large signal swing provides lower phase noise. Accordingly the front end amplifier maintains a large signal swing in order to maintain a large signal to noise ratio. The output latch is optimized similarly to the front end amplifier for low phase noise. Other areas of the integrated circuit chip such as logic block circuit do not require the low phase noise considerations associated with the clock distribution circuit and are instead optimized for miniaturization high speed operations and or low power. This is because as long as the logic components do not directly control the clocking of the final output signal no part of the logic block circuit contributes to phase noise in the final output signal . In the integrated circuit the clock distribution circuit and low phase noise clock signal update the final update signal via the clock input to output latch . It is advantageous to operate logic block circuits synchronously. When operating asychronously the output of logic block circuits may control the updating of output signal . As the logic block circuits are not specifically configured for low phase noise allowing the logic block to update the output signal may result in significant degradation in phase noise.

Referring again to a multi channel frequency divider implemented as logic blocks is described. The multi channel frequency divider is implemented having synchronous operation low power and high frequency response as primary performance metrics. When implemented as logic blocks within the architecture of frequency divider circuit does not contribute to phase noise. The circuit components located in regions of the chip containing phase noise contributors e.g. clock distribution circuit shown in are optimized for low phase noise. For example components associated with phase noise contributors are designed for high power density and may include external bypass and optimized bias cells to reduce additional phase noise by minimizing 1 f and thermal noise contribution.

Regions of the chip e.g. logic blocks that do not contribute to phase noise in the clock signal may be implemented in components that are optimized for miniaturization lower power and or high speed. The multi channel frequency divider of achieves frequency divisions ranging from integer division factors of 1 20 and may accept input frequencies in the GigaHertz GHz range. Furthermore the multi channel frequency divider may be updated to obtain non integer fractional division of an input signal. The fractional division factors may be achieved without the need for mixing stages used in typical synthesizer architectures. When implemented in a silicon germanium SiGe radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC phase noise may be measured at a level of performance which meets or exceeds the levels of regenerative frequency division. For example an embodiment of a frequency divider for providing a divide by 10 state may be implemented to produce a phase noise floor that is less than about 170 dBc Hz.

The logic blocks defining the multi channel frequency divider are implemented as series counters in high speed common mode logic CML . A plurality of D flip flop circuits through are arranged in series. Flip flop circuit receives a clock signal from buffer in the clock distribution path shown in . The QB output of flip flop circuit is provided as a first input to NOR logic gate . A second input to NOR logic gate is coupled to switch which may be used to selectively introduce NOR logic gate in and out of the logic block to output . When NOR logic gate is placed into the logic block via switch the frequency divider produces an odd integer division of the input clock signal . When the NOR logic gate is bypassed and removed from the logic block via switch the frequency divider will produce an even integer division of the input clock signal .

The input clock signal is applied simultaneously to the v input of each flip flop circuit denoted generally as . The output of the NOR logic gate is applied to the D input of flip flop . The Q output of flip flop circuit appears at node and is applied to the D input of the next flip flop circuit in the series. Flip flop circuit provides its Q output to node and as input to the D input of the next flip flop circuit in the series. Each flip flop circuit provides its Q output to an output node selectively connected to switch . The final flip flop circuit in the series receives its D input from the prior flip flop circuit in the series. Flip flop circuit provides its Q output to node .

Switch may be configured to provide an output via nodes or other nodes not shown connected to the Q output of flip flop circuits not shown in based on the selected position of switch . The particular node selected determines which flip flop circuits are represented in the output . By selecting different flip flop circuit outputs the division factor of the multi channel frequency divider may be selected to provide a desired or target frequency division factor.

Referring still to the single ended clock signal is received at limiter which is connected to V through diode . Limiter allows for improved phase noise performance over a larger operating signal range by preventing the saturation of input transistors and . The clock signal is also connected to MIM capacitor . MIM capacitor is connected to input matching circuit which is connected to the base of transistor . Input transistors and are selectively sized to further reduce phase noise. The emitter of transistor is commonly connected to transistor . The base of transistor is connected to V via MIM capacitor which maintains bias at transistor . The base of transistor is further connected through resistor to resistor . The base of transistor is also connected to resistor through resistor . Resistor is connected in series with inductor to V. Resistor and inductor provide common mode rejection to the common mode signal in output . Capacitor is connected in parallel with resistor and inductor between resistors and and V to provide bias filtering. Capacitor is selected to be a large capacitor with low equivalent series resistance ESR for example capacitor may be selected to have a capacitance value of about 10 F. Capacitor is connected in parallel with the current mirrors used to bias transistors which reduce the impact of 1 f noise contribution to the differential output signal of the circuit. V is connected to the collector of transistor through resistor and to the collector of transistor through resistor which act as load resistors. Negative output signal is connected to a node between load resistor and the collector of transistor . Positive output signal is connected to a node between load resistor and transistor .

The output latch shown in provides low phase noise operation while providing improvements over previously designed latch circuits. Examples of such conventional latch circuits are described with reference to . and are schematic diagrams of conventional output latch designs implemented using a D flip flop circuit. Referring to the D output latch of a differential clock input CLK N CLK is applied to the base electrodes of clock input transistor pair . Responsive to the state of the clock signal CLK N CLK the clock input transistor pair steers current to either sense cell or storage cell . Sense cell includes input transistor pair which receive a differential D input at their respective base electrodes. When the clock signal CLK is high current is directed to the D input transistor pair . Depending on the state of the voltage across input D N D transistor pair steers current to Vvia one of paths through resistors respectively. Current flowing through resistor causes a voltage level at node . Current flowing through resistor causes a voltage level at node . The voltage levels at nodes and also provide the differential output Q N Q .

When the CLK signal changes N CLK goes high and current is steered to storage cell . The current is applied to the emitters of storage input transistor pair . The voltage levels at nodes provide bias to the base electrodes of storage input transistor pair . Current is steered through storage cell based on the present voltage state of output nodes and is steered back to the output at nodes to the same resistor that the sense cell directed the current based on the state of the D input. The D flip flop output latch circuit shown in suffers from the limitation that the bias levels of the storage input transistor pair is set directly by the output nodes . This limits the output swing that can be realized because the output value must be limited to a state where it correctly drives or biases the transistor pair in the storage cell .

The D latch of attempts to address the output swing limitation of the D flip flop output latch circuit shown in by adding DC block capacitors to the feedback path. This allows for large output swings which are desirable in certain applications. However capacitors act as high pass filters thereby limiting the effective useable frequency range. Based on the size of capacitors D latch will have a limited hold time. For a typical integrated circuit the D latch shown in would be limited to operating at frequencies above a few hundred Megahertz MHz due to practical limitations on capacitor size. The output latch described in and shown in greater detail in addresses these limitations of output swing and operating frequency exhibited by conventional D latch circuits e.g. shown in .

Collector of clock input transistor is commonly connected to the emitters of transistor and transistor which define storage cell . The collector of transistor is connected to output NQ h of differential output pair Q h NQ h . Output NQ h is also applied to the base of transistor . The collector of transistor is connected to output Q h of differential output pair Q h NQ h . Output Q h is also applied to the base electrode of transistor . Transistors and are configured as an emitter follower which provides feedback to the base electrodes of transistors in the storage cell .

The base of transistor and the base of transistor are commonly connected to Bias . Bias is connected to Vvia capacitor . Resistor is connected between Vand the collector of transistor . The emitter of transistor is connected to the collector of transistor . The emitter of transistor is connected to Vthrough resistor . Resistor is connected between Vand the collector of transistor . The emitter of transistor is connected to the collector of transistor .

Output latch improves on the latches of at least by adding feedback transistors configured as emitter followers to provide feedback to storage cell . Transistor provides a feedback loop NQ fb to the base of transistor at node . Transistor provides a feedback loop Q fb to base of transistor Q h at node . The feedback swing can be kept small relative to large output swings by splitting the output resistors. It will be noted that feedback capacitors are still included in the design similarly to the latch illustrated in . However in output latch circuit the capacitors are much smaller and only serve to aid with the operation of storage cell in the presence of high bias and voltage swings in the main circuit of the latch while feedback transistors and are biased comparatively lower. It should be noted that in SiGe HBT s which may be used in the implementation of output latch these devices can be used reliably at voltage levels well past their specified collector to emitter breakdown voltage. In cases where the bias point is set by a low DC impedance on the base the bias point is set using the low impedance output of the emitter follower feedback transistors . Using this implementation the modified D flip flop output latch circuit is capable of very high output swings even beyond the capability of the circuit of and can operate from DC to very high frequencies similar to those achievable by the latch circuit shown in . Output latch simultaneously allows for superior output power and frequency range compared to other known D latch topologies.

As discussed hereinabove logic blocks may be implemented as a frequency divider circuit. In low noise frequency synthesis it is often necessary to create frequencies with a fractional relationship to a low noise source frequency. Present methods operate by the use of low noise integer frequency division typically regenerative frequency dividers and then employ a mixing stage or series of mixing stages to create the desired frequency. SiGe RFICs are beginning to improve in phase noise performance based on single chip solutions. However these chips only perform integer frequency divisions. A frequency divider such as the frequency divider shown in may be extended to provide fractional frequency division through the use of exclusive OR XOR logic functions. For example if a divide by 4 4 is XOR d with the input clock signal a frequency divide factor of of the original clock signal is obtained. This may be considered a digital mixer or a controlled comb generator. This technique may be used to create other fractional frequency divisions as well.

A SiGe multi channel frequency divider architecture has been disclosed herein with low phase noise as the primary performance metric. The architecture is based on segregating the phase noise contributors to the clock distribution and the final latch implementation. Implementation of the clock distribution stage is optimized for phase noise other areas of the chip that do not contribute to phase noise are optimized for miniaturization low power and high speed. With this architecture frequency divisions from 1 20 are achievable with frequency inputs into the GHz range. In addition the architecture allows upgrades to implement fractional frequency division that can be used to eliminate mixing stages currently used in synthesizer architectures. Phase Noise has been simulated and measured at the level of performance similar to regenerative frequency division e.g. less than about 170 dBc Hz . This is approximately 10 dB better than currently available SiGe frequency dividers.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity many other elements found in frequency translation devices including regenerative frequency dividers. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein. The disclosure herein is directed to all such variations and modifications known to those skilled in the art.

While the foregoing invention has been described with reference to the above described embodiment various additional modifications and changes can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly all such modifications and changes are considered to be within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and the drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations of variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

