---

title: Representing video client in social media
abstract: Video client social media account creation and linking of the video client social media account creation to a video services subscription account is provided. A user may create a video client social media account in one of various social media services, wherein the video client social media account is linked to the user's video service subscriber account. The user and the user's social media contacts may follow and/or be followed by the video client social media account. Information associated with video content may be electronically communicated with the video client social media account. A search for available or upcoming video content matching the received information may be performed, and one or more functionalities may be automatically performed when the content is available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578116&OS=09578116&RS=09578116
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS
number: 09578116
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140808
---
Video content users today can oftentimes be overwhelmed by the vast amount of video content that is available to them to watch. While there are tools available in a viewing experience that help users to find specific video content items that they want to watch e.g. programming guide search functions recommendations etc. there are many times when a user is not at his her television and may see or hear about a video content item that he she is interested in viewing. The video content item may or may not be currently available or soon to be available for viewing. If the video content item is not currently available for viewing the user may have to remember when the video content item will be available or periodically check to see if the content item is available.

For example a video services user may hear about a show via social media that he she is interested in watching or see a movie poster at a theater for a movie that the user would like to see when it becomes available to watch through his her video services subscription e.g. cable or satellite service provider . If the date of availability is known the user may have to remember the date and if the date of availability is not known the user may have to look up when the movie will be available via his her service subscription. As can be appreciated this can be burdensome to the user.

Users want to be able to find content they want to watch easily rather than searching for it when it becomes available. Additionally video content users are increasingly finding that their televisions or other video viewing devices are becoming companions to them. For example personalization of content recommendations and targeted advertising is becoming a norm in users video viewing experiences. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

The above and other problems are solved by providing video client social media account creation and linking of the video client social media account creation to a video services subscription account. A user may create a video client social media account in one of various social media services wherein the video client social media account is linked to the user s video service subscriber account. The user and the user s social media contacts may follow and or be followed by the video client social media account. Information associated with video content may be electronically communicated with the video client social media account. A search for available or upcoming video content matching the received information may be performed and one or more functionalities may be automatically performed when the content is available.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention.

Embodiments provide for video client social media account creation and linking of the video client social media account creation to a video services subscription account. A user may create a video client social media account in one of various social media services wherein the video client social media account is linked to the user s video service subscriber account. The video client social media account may be created through the social media service or a video service application user interface. The user and the user s social media contacts may follow and or be followed by the video client social media account.

Information associated with video content may be communicated electronically with the video client social media account. For example the user or a social media contact may follow or like a video content item via the video client social media account. Likewise the user may search for a video content item via video client social media account post an image an audio or a video clip of a video content item to the video client social media account etc. As another example the user may send a text email microblog etc. including data associated with a video content item e.g. title key words image sound clip other metadata video content metadata etc. to the video client social media account.

A search for available or upcoming video content matching the received information may be performed and one or more functionalities e.g. record the video content send a reminder notification post a notification on the video client social media account profile page place the video content in a folder etc. may be automatically performed when the content is available.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

The illustrated system includes a client device A D collectively which may comprise one of various configurations of client devices. For example client device A may be embodied as a converter such as a set top box and a display at a physical location associated with a cable system subscriber account. In various embodiments the display is part of a television set. A subscriber user may create one or more user profiles corresponding to individuals associated with the subscriber account or alternatively one or more default user profiles may be automatically created and associated with the subscriber account. The set top box may be connected to a service provider network such as a hybrid fiber coax HFC network and serves as a client that may comprise a video client application or may be in communication with a remote video client application . The client device may be embodied in various other configurations for example a tablet computing device B a desktop laptop or hybrid computing device C a mobile communication device D a gaming device an IP enabled television etc.

According to embodiments the subscriber user may be enabled to sign up for creation of a social media account or other electronic communication platform account representative of and linked to the user s video service subscriber account. One or more client devices on which the user may access video content may be registered to the user s video service subscriber account. The one or more registered client devices may be specified by IP address or by name for the particular device. Alternatively the user s video service subscriber account may allow for access to video content on any client device on which the video client application is embedded installed or network accessible.

The social media account or other electronic communication platform account representative of the user s video service subscriber account will herein be referred to as a video client social media account . The user may create multiple video client social media accounts in various social media services A N wherein each of the user s one or more video client social media accounts is linked to the user s video service subscriber account and may be accessible via the video client application and the one or more social media services . The user as well as the user s social media service contacts herein referred to as social media friends A N may follow and or be followed by the user s video client social media account . Video content followed by the video client social media account or posted to a profile page of the video client social media account may be liked by social media friends .

The video client application may be operable to perform specific operations to receive social media or other electronic communications via the one or more social media services A N and other electronic communication platform accounts search for available or upcoming video content matching a received communication and automatically perform functionalities e.g. record the video content send a reminder place the video content in a folder etc. when the content is available. The video client application may be further operable to perform other functionalities. For example the video client application may be operable to receive a sound clip or a video file analyze the received file recognize video content matching the received file and record send a reminder for or place the matching video content in a folder.

The service provider network may be connected with an Internet protocol IP network such as the Internet . One or more social media services A N collectively may be accessed by the set top box via the Internet and the service provider network . The subscriber user and friends A N are not limited to using the set top box as a client and may use any number of various clients A D to associate with a video client social media account via a local or remote video client application for example mobile phones computers tablets cable ready satellite ready or IP enabled televisions etc.

The video client social media account may be stored in the service provider back end and application server and the user s video service subscription account and the video client social media account may be linked. The user may manage the video client social media account from a user interface provided via the video client application and or through the one or more social media services A N. One embodiment of an example video client application user interface is described below with respect to .

A service provider content delivery network CDN is illustrated in association with a service provider headend and a service provider back end and application server are illustrated in association with the service provider CDN . As should be appreciated the layout of the functionalities of the service provider including the service provider CDN and the service provider back end and application server system are for purposes of illustration only and are not restrictive of the various layouts and combinations of systems that may be utilized by a given service provider for providing content to users subscribers .

A service provider back end application server may provide functionality for maintaining profile information on the subscriber user including permissions for the subscriber user to utilize service provider functionality including consumption of service provider content and including such functionalities as content preferences parental control systems billing systems and the like. The back end and application server for the service provider may provide operating functionality for example one or more software applications and associated databases for directing content distribution provided by the service provider to users subscribers at client devices .

The service provider content delivery network CDN is illustrative of a delivery or distribution network which may include a distributed system of servers databases and other content repositories for distributing audio and video content text graphics media files software applications and associated documents on demand content social media content live streaming media content and the like from the service provider to users subscribers . CDNs typically function by receiving requests from clients checking a local cache for a copy of the requested resource or querying some source if a requested resource is not in the cache or has expired for example. CDN servers can be strategically located at the edges of various networks to limit loads on network interconnects and backbones. CDN servers can be redundantly deployed and interact with other CDN servers to respond to content requests from clients in attempts to optimize content delivery. For example network edge servers can enable ease of browsing navigating and streaming of content including streaming live video. For example if a given user operating a tablet computing device B selects a news story for live streaming to the tablet computing device B as offered by the service provider the application server at the back end application server may cause a media player to activate for streaming the desired content from the service provider CDN to the user s tablet computing device B via IP based transmission to the tablet computing device B.

The service provider gathers content from a variety of content sources A N collectively including network feeds stored media communication links video on demand sources Internet sources and live studio sources. The service provider headend converts the content into a form that can be managed and distributed then stores moves and sends out playout the media at scheduled times. The service provider network simultaneously transfers multiple channels to subscribers users who are connected to the service provider system. Users view video content on displays e.g. televisions that are directly connected to a cable line e.g. cable ready TVs or through an adapter box set top box . Video content may also be provided to clients via use of IP networks e.g. the Internet which may be utilized to process and receive multimedia communications using IP protocol.

The system may comprise a personalization server which may be operable to receive and manage personalization information based on various controls settings and other criteria associated with the user s video services subscription account. For example the personalization server may be operable to gather information associated with searches made by the user and the video content items liked and followed by the user via the video client social media account and analyze and correlate the information to understand where the user is finding information about what he she likes to watch and to understand the viewing preferences of the user . The information may further be utilized to feed to a recommendation engine to provide the user with better recommendations and to provide the user with targeted advertisements related to what the user likes. An ad insertion system may be implemented to fill empty advertising slots or to replace existing advertising with ads that may be more personally tailored to the user according to user viewing data and or the user s location.

According to embodiments by adding the video client social media account as a follower of a social media account or by following the video client social media account and upon receiving a post email or other electronic communication associated with a video content item or series of video content items the video client application may be enabled to send information to the user and or to social media friends about the video content item s and or to perform a functionality associated with the video content item s .

For example and as illustrated in the user may create a video client social media account associated with his her video services subscription account. The user may read about a movie or other video content item and may show an interest in the video content item . For example the user may scan a matrix barcode associated with the video content item capture an image of the video content item enter the title of the video content item etc. and send the matrix barcode captured image or other information to the video client application via posting emailing microblogging or messaging the matrix barcode captured image or other information to his her own social media account or to the video client social media account . The video client application may identify and search for the movie video content item when it is available the video client application may place the video content item in a folder stored on a client device or on the cloud automatically record the video content item send a reminder notification to the user via one or more electronic communication methods and or place a reference to the availability of the video content item on the user s social media account page.

As shown in the example illustrated in a reminder notification is sent to the user s mobile communication device D and the video content item has been automatically recorded and saved in a recorded programs repository . Accordingly the user may be enabled to more easily find and access content. Additionally the service provider may be enabled to better understand what the user is interested in watching and where the user is finding information about what he she chooses to watch.

According to embodiments the video client application may correlate and connect other related information to video content items for example video content titles key words sound clips images and other recognizable and searchable metadata e.g. actors actresses producer theme etc . For example the user may be listening to a song that he she recognizes from a certain show or movie video content item . The user may capture an audio clip of the song and share e.g. email post microblog message etc. the clip or music file with the video client application via the video client social media account . The clip or music file may be analyzed and matched with a video content item title. The video content item may be available via one or more content sources . Alternatively the video content item may not yet be available however when the video content item becomes available a reminder notification may be sent to the user via one or more electronic communication methods as described above. If the video content item is available the video content item may be placed in a folder stored on a client device or on the cloud or automatically recorded. A notification may be communicated to the user via one or more electronic communication methods e.g. email message post microblog etc. .

With reference now to one embodiment of an example video client application user interface is illustrated. The user interface may be utilized by a user to create a video client social media account linked to his her video services subscription account. If a video client social media account is created through a social media service and not via the client application user interface the user interface may be utilized to link the video client social media account with the user s video services subscription account. Additionally and as illustrated the user interface may be utilized to apply various personalized settings to the user s one or more video client social media accounts .

Once one or more video client social media accounts are linked to the user s video services subscription account a listing of the one or more video client social media accounts and the social media service with which each video client social media account is associated may be displayed from which the user may select to apply or edit various settings . For example the various settings may include but are not limited to a setting for allowing social media friends to follow the video client social media account a setting for enabling posting of video content information to the video client social media account profile space which other people may be able to see a setting for entering one or more contact numbers addresses or social media service profile names to which to send reminders notifications a setting for allowing disallowing automatic recording of video content items when they are available a setting for allowing automatic recording of a video content item when it receives a user selectable number of likes from social media friends a setting to place video content items in a folder a setting for turning on off parental controls a setting for selecting which types of video content items to search e.g. free content pay content linear content on demand content etc. etc.

With reference now to a flowchart of one embodiment of a method for creating a video client social media account and linking the video client social media account with a video services subscription account. The method starts at OPERATION and proceeds to OPERATION where an indication of creation of and a selection to link a video client social media account with a video services subscription account is received. As described above the video client social media account may be created via a social media service or may be created via the video client application user interface . If the video client social media account is created via a social media service a selection to link the video client social media account with the video services subscription account the user may be prompted to finalize the account creation process through the video client application . Accordingly the user may utilize the video client application user interface to select to link the video client social media account with the video services subscription account.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where the video client social media account may be linked with the user s video service subscriber account and stored in the service provider back end application server . A same username and password may be used to access the video client social media account and the user s video service subscriber account. Additionally the user s video service subscriber account may comprise information such as preferences privacy settings and other settings that may be applied to the linked video client social media account . As described above according to an embodiment one or more client devices on which the user may access video content and which may be specified by IP address or by name for the particular device may be registered to the user s video service subscriber account. If one or more client devices are registered to the user s video service subscriber account the registered device s may be linked to the user s video client social media account . Various settings may be selectively applied to the video client social media account for example via the video client application user interface as described above with reference to .

The method may proceed to OPERATION where an electronic communication associated with a video content item or a series or grouping of video content items is received. For example the user may follow a video content item like a video content item search for a video content item post an image of a video content item receive an indication of a social media friend following or liking a video content item etc. via the video client social media account . As another example the user may send a text email microblog etc. including data associated with a video content item e.g. title key words image sound clip other metadata video content metadata etc. to the video client social media account .

At OPERATION the video content item may be identified. For example if the communication of the video content item is a sound clip from a video content item the sound clip may be analyzed and the video content item may be recognized. Availability of the identified video content item s may be searched according to default settings or settings made by the user for the video client social media account . For example a user may select to only search for free content. Accordingly the availability of free video content items matching the received data may be searched.

The method may proceed to DECISION OPERATION where a determination may be made as to the availability of the identified video content item s . If the identified video content item s is are not available the method may proceed to OPERATION where a notification that no video content item s matching the received information is are available may be sent to the user via or more various electronic communication methods.

If a determination is made that the identified video content item s is are available at DECISION OPERATION the method may proceed to OPERATION where a notification of the availability of the video content item s may be sent to the user via one or more various electronic communication methods and one or more functionalities may be performed according to default settings or settings made by the user for the video client social media account . For example the video content item s may be recorded placed in a folder posted or microblogged to the video client social media account etc.

If at DECISION OPERATION a determination is made that the identified video content item s is are not currently available but is scheduled to be available in the future the method may proceed to OPERATION where a notification of the coming availability of the video content item s may be sent to the user via or more various electronic communication methods and one or more functionalities may be performed according to default settings or settings made by the user for the video client social media account . For example the video content item s may be recorded placed in a folder posted or microblogged to the video client social media account and or a reminder notification may be sent when the video content item s become s available etc.

The method may proceed from OPERATIONS or to OPERATION where viewing and interaction information may be collected and sent to the service provider back end application server . The information may be analyzed and utilized for understanding where the user is finding information about what he she likes to watch and to understand the viewing preferences of the user . The information may further be utilized to feed to a recommendation engine to provide the user with better recommendations and to provide the user with targeted advertisements related to what the user likes. The method ends at OPERATION .

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules. The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to an embodiment the service provider video application may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor provide video client social media account creation and linking as described herein.

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other systems such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer system s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices keypads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computer System Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the video client application . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications the service provider video client application calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc.

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine a device s location.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side headend and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side headend system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications for example service provider video client application . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . The in band signaling space operates in a specified frequency divided into channels. Each channel carries one or more signals such as a single analog signal or multiple digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range is generally lower than the in band signaling frequency range. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system is well known to those skilled in the art.

The headend of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the headend of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data such as content or content metadata from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data. Similarly content e.g. Internet television content and other internet protocol video based content may be displayed to the customer on the user s client device .

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. In the illustrated embodiment the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

A web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers mobile communication device systems and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the Figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

