---

title: KCNQ channels as therapeutic targets
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods and compositions for modulating the activity of KCNQ channels as a means for reducing the effects of aberrant KCNQ channel function associated with epilepsy, deafness and arrhythmias including but not limited to, Long-QT syndrome (“LQTS”), and atrial fibrillation. The present disclosure also relates to the discovery of certain regions of KCNQ channels that interact with various channel stimulating molecules such as, ATP, and PIP, as well as KCNQ channel domains that effect voltage dependant channel activation. The disclosure is also directed to the use of small molecules to modulate KCNQ channel activity in a cell. Moreover, the present disclosure relates to the therapeutic effects of treating a subject with modulators of KCNQ channel activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09345688&OS=09345688&RS=09345688
owner: Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 09345688
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 788 794 filed Mar. 15 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure was made with government support under grant numbers HL70393 NS060706 HL094410 and GM088517 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the disclosure.

The Sequence Listing in the ASCII text file named as 29866 sequencelisting.txt of 16 KB created on Mar. 14 2014 and submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office via EFS Web is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to methods and compositions for modulating the activity of KCNQ channels as a means for reducing the effects of aberrant KCNQ channel function associated with epilepsy deafness and arrhythmias including but not limited to long QT syndrome LQTS and atrial fibrillation. In particular the present disclosure relates to the discovery of certain regions of KCNQ channels that interact with various channel stimulating molecules such as adenosine 5 triphosphate ATP and phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP as well as KCNQ channel domains that effect voltage dependant channel activation. The disclosure is also directed to the use of small molecules to modulate KCNQ channel activity. Moreover the present disclosure relates to the therapeutic effects of treating a subject with modulators of KCNQ channel activity.

Voltage activated KCNQ potassium K channels provide the molecular basis for slowly activating delayed rectifier K I current in the heart M currents in neurons which regulate the firing rate of neurons in the central nervous system and potassium currents in cochlear hair cells. I is composed of an or subunit KCNQ1 and a subunit KCNE1 also known as minK see Sanguinetti M C. et al. 1996 384 80 83. while heteromultimers of KCNQ2 KCNQ3 and KCNQ5 subunits form the basis for the M channel and KCNQ4 channels form K currents of the cochlear outer hair cells and vestibular utricle in the inner ear. Mutations within the KCNQ channel proteins KCNQ1 5 otherwise known as Kv7.1 5 or KvLQT1 5 are associated with cardiac arrhythmias see Wang Q. et al. 1996 12 17 23 Tester D J. et al. . 2005 2 507 517 epilepsy see Brown D A. 2008 586 1781 1783 Singh N A. et al. 1998 18 25 29 and deafness see Brown D A. 2008 .

The crystal structures of several voltage gated potassium channels have been elucidated and extensively studied see Jiang Y. et al. 2003 423 33 41 Long S B. et al . 2005 309 897 908 however structural modeling of KCNQ channels is incomplete. Although KCNQ channels are structurally similar to other voltage gated K channels the crystal structure has not yet been solved leading to conflicting results in the literature regarding the characterization of essential PIP2 and ATP binding domains as well as the voltage dependant activation motifs. See Thomas A M. et al. . 2011 286 3 2088 100 Hernandez C C. et al. . 2008 132 361 381 .

The present disclosure provides a method for modulating KCNQ channel activity of a cell. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the KCNQ channel activity of a cell is increased by contacting the cell with an agent that binds to a portion of a KCNQ channel including but not limited to KCNQ1 KCNQ2 KCNQ3 KCNQ4 KCNQ5 or KCNE1 in an amount effective to increase KCNQ channel activity of a cell. In certain embodiments the agent is a small molecule including but not limited to C28 and C4. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the KCNQ channel activity of a cell is decreased by contacting the cell with an agent that binds to a portion of a KCNQ channel including but not limited to KCNQ1 KCNQ2 KCNQ3 KCNQ4 KCNQ5 or KCNE1 in an amount effective to decrease KCNQ channel activity of a cell. In certain embodiments the agent is a small molecule including but not limited to C29.

In other embodiments the small molecule binds to a KCNQ channel or subunit thereof contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof a non limiting example of said amino acid sequence corresponds with the S2 S3 linker domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 177 200 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 147 170 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 166 191 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 150 178 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 178 206 including variations or segments thereof.

In another embodiment the small molecule binds to a KCNQ channel or subunit thereof contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof a non limiting example of said amino acid sequence corresponds with the S4 S5 linker domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 237 262 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 207 232 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 225 250 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 213 238 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 241 266 including variations or segments thereof.

In yet another embodiment the small molecule binds to a KCNQ channel or subunit thereof contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof a non limiting example of said amino acid sequence corresponds with the S6 C terminal linker domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 346 370 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 311 335 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 339 363 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 317 341 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 345 369 including variations or segments thereof.

In yet another embodiment the small molecule binds to a KCNE1 subunit of the Ichannel by contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof a non limiting example of said amino acid sequence is amino acid residues 67 73 of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNE1.

In yet another embodiment the small molecule binds to a KCNQ channel or subunit thereof contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof a non limiting example of such an amino acid sequence corresponds with the C terminal domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 369 407 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 334 372 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 362 400 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 340 378 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 368 404 including variations or segments thereof.

In yet another embodiment the small molecule binds to a KCNQ channel or subunit thereof contacting at least one of the following amino acid sequences or a fragment or segment thereof and modulates the interaction between the S2 and S4 domain of a KCNQ protein. The amino acid sequence s that correspond with the S2 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 are amino acid residues 155 177 for KCNQ2 are amino acid residues 125 146 for KCNQ3 are amino acid residues 144 165 for KCNQ4 are amino acid residues 131 152 KCNQ5 are amino acid residues 159 180 including variations or segments thereof. The S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 includes amino acid residues 223 246 the S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ2 includes amino acid residues 193 216 the S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ3 includes amino acid residues 212 234 the S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ4 includes amino acid residues 199 222 and the S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ5 includes amino acid residues 227 250 including variations or segments thereof.

Small molecules that bind to homologs analogs and fragments of these amino acid sequences are also contemplated by the present disclosure as modulators of KCNQ channel activity.

In an embodiment of the disclosure the cell is a neural cell including but not limited to a neuron. In another embodiment the cell is a cardiac cell including but not limited to a myocyte. In another embodiment the cell is an outer hair cell of the cochlear.

In certain aspects of the present disclosure is directed to methods and compositions for modulating KCNQ channel activity in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates the activity of a KCNQ channel or a subunit thereof. The present disclosure provides specific compositions containing at least one KCNQ channel binding molecule that modulates at least one KCNQ channel mediated biological activity in an organism including humans.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the composition is a peptide that binds a KCNQ channel or a subunit thereof. In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure said composition is a small molecule that functions in the same manner as a KCNQ channel effector including but not limited to ATP or PIPto modulate KCNQ channel activity. In yet another embodiment the agent is a nucleic acid. The nucleic acid may be an siRNA or shRNA. Nucleic acid molecules coding for any peptide that will interact with any of the amino acid sequences referenced herein the expression vectors which include any of such nucleic acid molecules as well as related host cells containing such nucleotide sequences or vectors are also contemplated by the present disclosure.

These and other embodiments of the disclosure will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in view of the disclosure herein

Ion channels permit flows of selective ions across cell membranes and regulate the membrane potential and the duration of action potentials thereby controlling many basic biological processes such as contractions of cardiac skeletal and smooth muscles and transport of nutrients and hormones. See Zaydman M A. et al. 112 6319 6333. 2012 .

Voltage activated KCNQ K channels KCNQ1 5 also known as Kv7.1 5 are the molecular basis of Icurrents in the heart M currents in many types of neurons and K currents in cochlear hair cells that regulate the cardiac action potential duration neuronal discharge and synaptic transmission and endolymph potassium homeostasis mutations of these channel proteins are associated with cardiac arrhythmias epilepsy and deafness. See Hill B. 3ed. 2001 . The slowly activating delayed rectifier potassium current I is essential for the termination of cardiac action potentials and the maintenance of a normal heart rhythm. See Hill 2001 . The Ichannel is co assembled by KCNQ1 and KCNE1 subunits. KCNQ1 is also referred to as Kv7.1 or KvLQT1 and KCNE1 is also known as minK. The subunit KCNQ1 forms the conductance pore of I. The 3 subunit KCNE1 is an auxiliary protein that associates with and modulates the activity of KCNQ1. See Sun X. et al. 3 63 2012 . These physiologically important channels all require PIPin order to open and the cardiac Ichannel formed by KCNQ1 and auxiliary subunit KCNE1 see Sanguinetti et al. 1996 also requires intracellular ATP for activation. Although PIPand ATP are vital for the function of KCNQ channels the molecular mechanisms of regulation by these signaling molecules are not clear central questions such as the location and identity of PIPand ATP binding sites and how these molecules alter channel function after binding still remain unclear. Previous studies and our data show that a number of mutations in KCNQ1 that are associated with long QT syndrome LQTS . Applicants disclosure reveals that a reduction in Ichannel activity by altering PIPor ATP sensitivity leads to LQTS and provides the methodological basis for PIPand ATP mediated regulation of KCNQ channels in their native cells.

KCNQ1 alone can form a functional voltage gated potassium Kv channel. Kv channels are formed by the co assembly of four subunits each consisting of six transmembrane helices S1 S6 . The first four helices S1 S4 form the voltage sensing domain VSD and S5 S6 form the pore domain PD . The S4 segment contains conserved basic residues. Membrane depolarization exerts force on these charged residues moving S4 outward which then induce the opening of the pore. To date the crystal structure of full length KCNQ1 has not been solved.

Mutations in the KCNQ1 gene are associated with long QT syndrome a congenital disorder that is characterized by a prolongation of the QT interval on electrocardiograms ECGs and increase the risk of sudden death from cardiac arrhythmias. The reduction of the Icurrents by these mutations prolongs ventricular action potentials thereby the QT interval. The Ichannel therefore serves as a valuable drug target and the potentiators of Ican be used for treating cardiovascular diseases. During Kv channel formation four subunits co assemble to form a tetrameric complex with a central pore built from the PDs of all four subunits and the four VSDs located peripheral to the central pore. Voltage dependent activation involves three general molecular events 1 VSD movements from the resting state to the activated state in response to membrane depolarization 2 propagation of VSD activation to the PD through the interactions between VSD and PD known as coupling and 3 pore opening. See Tombola F. et al. 22 23 52. 2006 .

The present disclosure elucidates the molecular mechanism governing KCNQ channel activity and shows that PIPis not required for VSD movements but is required for the coupling between VSD and PD and that ATP directly binds to KCNQ1 for channel activation. Thus the present disclosure identifies and isolates the essential domains within KCNQ channels that govern channel activity including but not limited to voltage activation PIPbinding and ATP binding. Therefore methods and compositions for modulating the activity of KCNQ channels are provided as a means for treating a subject in need thereof.

Cardiac arrhythmias result from an increase in the duration of the ventricular action potential. This increase in ventricular action potential induces LQTS which leads to a type of arrhythmia called torsade de pointes resulting in sudden death. In a small number of cases it is inherited while in the vast majority it is acquired due to pharmacotherapy. This side effect of pharmacotherapy has removed promising drug candidates from market consideration and remains a serious concern with others that are currently in use. Iexists in mammalian atrial and ventricular myocytes providing for the repolarization of cardiac action potential. Atrial Fibrillation AF is an arrhythmia that has become increasingly prevalent in our aging population and repolarization of the atrial action potential is in part due to I.

Novel targets of the present disclosure which encompass regions of the Ichannel have been defined herein and used to create novel therapeutic approaches to treating LQTS. Blockers of this same channel have therapeutic potential for a common arrhythmia of the atrium atrial fibrillation said blockers include but are not limited to 2 4 3 4 Dimethylphenoxy phenyl 1 3 dioxoisoindoline 5 carboxylic acid C29 . As the subunit of the Ichannel belongs to the KCNQ family and the M current is composed of heteromultimers of three other members of the KCNQ family KCNQ2 3 and or KCNQ5 and one of the K channels in the ear is composed of KCNQ4 and thus the therapeutic agents of the present disclosure are also effective in treating epilepsy and congenital deafness respectively.

Particularly useful compositions for modulating KCNQ channels include but are not limited to disodium 3 4 hydroxy 9 10 dioxo 2 4 sulfonatoanilino anthracen 1 yl amino benzenesulfonate C28 bis 2 pyridylthio zinc 1 1 dioxide zinc pyrithione and ethyl N 2 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl methylamino phenyl carbamate Retigabine .

The novel targets of the present disclosure encompass regions of KCNQ2 5 proteins and the channels composed thereof. Thus agonists of channels containing KCNQ2 5 are used to alleviate the physiological conditions associated with KCNQ channel dysfunction via the use of therapeutic agents that act to enhance channel function a non limiting example is the compound sodium 2 anilino 5 2 4 dinitroanilino benzenesulfonate C4 which can be used to treat diseases including epilepsy and deafness. See .

According to the present disclosure there are small molecules that modulate KCNQ channel activity of a cell. In the present disclosure the small molecules modulate KCNQ channel activity of a cell by contacting a portion of a KCNQ channel including but not limited to KCNQ1 KCNQ2 KCNQ3 KCNQ4 KCNQ5 or KCNE1. In the present disclosure an effective amount of a small molecule will increase or decrease KCNQ channel activity. Non exclusive measures of KCNQ channel activity include the ability of KCNQ channels or subunits thereof to bind effectors thereof or the KCNQ channels ability to pass a current.

In one aspect the agents of the present disclosure modulate KCNQ channel activity by interacting with the amino acid sequence that corresponds with the S2 S3 linker domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 177 200 for example SAGCRSKYVGLWGRLRFARKPISI SEQ ID NO 1 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 147 170 for example AAGCCCRYRGWRGRLKFARKPFCV SEQ ID NO 2 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 166 191 for example AAGCCCRYKGWRGRLKFARKPLCMLD SEQ ID NO 3 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 150 178 for example RVWSAGCCCRYRGWQGRFRFARKPFCVID SEQ ID NO 4 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 178 206 for example RIWSAGCCCRYRGWQGRLRFARKPFCVID SEQ ID NO 5 .

In one aspect of the current disclosure the agents modulate KCNQ channel activity by interacting with an amino acid sequence corresponds with the S4 S5 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 237 262 for example RMLHVDRQGGTWRLLGSVVFIHRQEL SEQ ID NO 6 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 207 232 for example RMIRMDRRGGTWKLLGSVVYAHSKEL SEQ ID NO 7 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 225 250 for example RMLRMDRRGGTWKLLGSAICHAHSKEL SEQ ID NO 8 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 213 238 for example RMVRMDRRGGTWKLLGSVVYAHSKEL SEQ ID NO 9 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 241 266 for example RMVRMDRRGGTWKLLGSVVYAHSKEL SEQ ID NO 9 including variations or segments thereof.

In one aspect the agents of the present disclosure modulate KCNQ channel activity by interacting with an amino acid sequence that corresponds with the S6 C terminal linker domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 346 370 for example ILGSGFALKVQQKQRQKHFNRQIPA SEQ ID NO 10 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 311 335 for example ILGSGFALKVQEQHRQKHFEKRRNP SEQ ID NO 11 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 339 363 for example ILGSGLALKVQEQHRQKHFEKRRKP SEQ ID NO 12 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 317 341 for example ILGSGFALKVQEQHRQKHFEKRRMP SEQ ID NO 13 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 345 369 for example ILGSGFALKVQEQHRQKHFEKRRNP SEQ ID NO 14 including variations or segments thereof.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within the KCNQ1 protein encompassing the sequence RXXXXRXHRXK SEQ ID NO 15 wherein Xcan be any amino acid which includes 

Preferably Xare those amino acids that are homologs of the native residues found in the KCNQ channel protein.

More preferably Xare those amino acids found in the native sequence of a vertebrate KCNQ channel protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within the KCNQ2 KCNQ4 OR KCNQ5 protein encompassing the sequence RXXXXRXHXKXK SEQ ID NO 16 .

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within the KCNQ3 protein encompassing the sequence RXXXXRXHXKXK SEQ ID NO 17 .

Yet another preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid residues within the KCNE1 protein encompassing amino acid residues 67 75 of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNE1 for example RSKKLEHSN SEQ ID NO. 18 .

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within the KCNE1 protein encompassing the sequence RXKKXXH SEQ ID NO 19 .

In one aspect the agents of the present disclosure modulate KCNQ channel activity by interacting with an amino acid sequence that corresponds with the C terminal domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 amino acid residues 369 397 for example PAAASLIQTAWRCYAAENPDSSTWKIYIR SEQ ID NO 20 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 335 362 for example PAAGLIQSAWRFYATNLSRTDLHSTWQY SEQ ID NO 21 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 363 389 for example PAAELIQAAWRYYATNPNRIDLVATWR SEQ ID NO 22 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 341 368 for example PAANLIQAAWRLYSTDMSRAYLTATWYY SEQ ID NO 23 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 369 394 for example PAANLIQCVWRSYAADEKSVSIATWK SEQ ID NO 24 including variations or segments thereof.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within a KCNQ protein encompassing the sequence WRXKXXXR SEQ ID NO 25 .

In one aspect the agents of the present disclosure modulate KCNQ channel activity by interacting with an amino acid sequence that modulates the interaction between the S2 and S4 domain of a KCNQ protein. Non limiting examples of this domain include the amino acid sequence that corresponds with the S2 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 comprises amino acid residues 155 177 TLFWMEIVLVVFFGTEYVVRLWS SEQ ID NO 26 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 125 146 for example ALYILEIVTIVVFGVEYFVRIW SEQ ID NO 27 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 144 165 for example WLLLLETFAIFIFGAEFALRIW SEQ ID NO 28 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 131 152 for example CLLILEFVMIVVFGLEYIVRVW SEQ ID NO 29 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 159 180 for example CLLILEFVMIVVFGLEFIIRIW SEQ ID NO 30 the amino acid domain that comprises the S4 domain of human rat mouse or rabbit KCNQ1 is amino acid residues 223 246 ATSAIRGIRFLQILRMLHVDRQGG SEQ ID NO 31 KCNQ2 amino acid residues 193 216 for example ATSALRSLRFLQILRMIRMDRRGG SEQ ID NO 32 KCNQ3 amino acid residues 212 234 for example ATSLRSLRFLQILRMLRMDRRGG SEQ ID NO 33 KCNQ4 amino acid residues 199 222 for example ATSALRSMRFLQILRMVRMDRRGG SEQ ID NO 34 KCNQ5 amino acid residues 227 250 for example ATSALRSLRFLQILRMVRMDRRGG SEQ ID NO 35 including variations or segments thereof.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity of the present disclosure is a small molecule that interacts with the amino acid domain within a KCNQ protein which includes the sequence RXXRXXXXXR SEQ ID NO 36 .

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R228 R231 and R237 that prevents interaction with amino acid E160 or D160 of a KCNQ protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R198 R201 and R207 that prevents interaction with amino acid E130 of a KCNQ protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R198 R201 and R207 that prevents interaction with amino acid E130 of a KCNQ protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R216 R219 and R225 that prevents interaction with amino acid E149 of a KCNQ protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R204 R207 and R213 that prevents interaction with amino acid E136 of a KCNQ protein.

A preferred modulator of KCNQ channel activity interacts with an amino acid sequence encompassing any of the following amino acid residues R232 R235 and R241 that prevents interaction with amino acid E1164 of a KCNQ protein.

Small molecules that bind to homologs analogs and fragments of these amino acid sequences are also contemplated by the present disclosure as modulators of KCNQ channel activity.

In an embodiment of the disclosure the cell is a neural cell including but not limited to a neuron. In another embodiment the cell is a cardiac cell including but not limited to a myocyte. In another embodiment the cell is an outer hair cell of the cochlear.

The present disclosure also provides methods and compositions for modulating KCNQ channel activity in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates the activity of a KCNQ channel or a subunit thereof. The present disclosure provides specific compositions containing at least one KCNQ channel binding molecule that modulates at least one KCNQ channel mediated biological activity in an organism including but not limited to humans.

The dosage of an agent that is administered to a subject in need thereof may vary depending on the reason for use and the individual subject. The dosage may be adjusted based on the subject s weight the age and health of the subject and tolerance for the compound or composition.

The amount of agent therapeutic to be used depends on many factors. Dosages may include about 2 mg kg of bodyweight day about 5 mg kg of bodyweight day about 10 mg kg of bodyweight day about 15 mg kg of bodyweight day about 20 mg kg of bodyweight day about 25 mg kg of bodyweight day about 30 mg kg of bodyweight day about 40 mg kg of bodyweight day about 50 mg kg of bodyweight day about 60 mg kg of bodyweight day about 70 mg kg of bodyweight day about 80 mg kg of bodyweight day about 90 mg kg of bodyweight day about 100 mg kg of bodyweight day about 125 mg kg of bodyweight day about 150 mg kg of bodyweight day about 175 mg kg of bodyweight day about 200 mg kg of bodyweight day about 250 mg kg of bodyweight day about 300 mg kg of bodyweight day about 350 mg kg of bodyweight day about 400 mg kg of bodyweight day about 500 mg kg of bodyweight day about 600 mg kg of bodyweight day about 700 mg kg of bodyweight day about 800 mg kg of bodyweight day and about 900 mg kg of bodyweight day. Routine experimentation may be used to determine the appropriate value for each patient by monitoring the compound s effect on KCNQ channel activity or the disease pathology which can be frequently and easily monitored. The agent can be administered once or multiple times per day. The frequency of administration may vary from a single dose per day to multiple doses per day. Preferred routes of administration include oral intravenous and intraperitoneal but other forms of administration may be chosen as well.

The effective amount of an agent according to the present disclosure may be administered along any of the routes commonly known in the art. This includes for example 1 oral administration 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injection 3 topical administration or 4 intravaginal or intrarectal administration 5 sublingual or buccal administration 6 ocular administration 7 transdermal administration 8 nasal administration and 9 administration directly to the organ or cells in need thereof.

The effective amount of an agent according to the present disclosure may be formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The active ingredient and excipient s may be formulated into compositions and dosage forms according to methods known in the art. These compositions and dosage forms may be specially formulated for administration in solid or liquid form including those adapted for the following 1 oral administration for example tablets capsules powders granules pastes for application to the tongue aqueous or non aqueous solutions or suspensions drenches or syrups 2 parenteral administration for example by subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injection as for example a sterile solution or suspension 3 topical application for example as a cream ointment or spray applied to the skin lungs or mucous membranes or 4 intravaginally or intrarectally for example as a pessary cream or foam 5 sublingually or buccally 6 ocularly 7 transdermally or 8 nasally.

In the context of the present disclosure the effective amount of the agent modulating KCNQ channel activity may be administered alone or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents second therapeutic entity regardless of the disease that said second therapeutic entity is administered to treat. In a combination therapy the effective amount of the agent modulating KCNQ channel activity may be administered before during or after commencing therapy with another agent as well as any combination thereof i.e. before and during before and after during and after or before during and after commencing the additional therapy. For clarity an agent of the present disclosure may be administered in an effective amount in response a prior treatment that brings about the need to modulate KCNQ channel function.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the composition is a peptide that binds a KCNQ channel or a subunit thereof. In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure said composition is a small molecule that functions in the same manner as a KCNQ channel effector including but not limited to voltage ATP or PIPto modulate KCNQ channel activity. In yet another embodiment the agent is a nucleic acid. The nucleic acid may be an siRNA shRNA. Nucleic acid molecules coding for any peptide that will interact with any of the amino acid sequences referenced herein the expression vectors which include any of such nucleic acid molecules as well as related host cells containing such nucleotide sequences or vectors are also contemplated by the present disclosure.

Consistent with the observed properties of the KCNQ channels that are the subject of this disclosure an agent of the present disclosure can be used to inhibit suppress or cause the cessation of at least one KCNQ channel mediated disease pathology including but not limited to LQTS epilepsy deafness atrial fibrillation and diabetes. See Unoki et al. 40 1098 102 2008 and Holmkvist et al. 4 6 e5872 2009 .

The term KCNQ channel or KCNQ channels is employed herein to refer any ion channel having at least one KCNQ subunit including but not limited to KCNQ1 KCNQ2 KCNQ3 KCNQ4 and KCNQ5. Non limiting examples of KCNQ channel s include Ichannels M channels and KCNQ4 channels.

The phrase Ichannel or Ichannels refers to any channel composed of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 subunits that form the basis of the slowly activating delayed rectifier potassium current I that regulate cardiac action potential duration.

The phrase M channel or M channels refers to any channel composed of KCNQ2 and or KCNQ3 subunits or KCNQ5 subunits that regulate neurotransmission and membrane excitability in neural cells.

The phrase KCNQ4 channel or KCNQ4 channels are composed of one or more KCNQ4 subunit and form the basis of the cochlear out hair cell and vestibular utricle K currents I .

The phrase modulating the activity or modulating the level is employed herein to refer to increasing the level or decreasing the activity of an entity including but not limited to a channel peptide or molecule. Non limiting examples of the activity or level of a channel include the density number of channels unit area of the KCNQ protein in a membrane or the ability of KCNQ channels to function or bind effectors thereof. The phrase channel activity or channel function refers to the ability of a channel to pass ionic current small molecule s bind effectors respond to voltage mechanical force heat or light or regulate cellular homeostasis.

The term channel or channels as referred to in the present disclosure includes both 1 pumps that use a source of free energy including but not limited to ATP ionic gradient or light to drive the transport of ions or molecules across membranes within or surrounding cells of an organism and 2 channels which enable ions or molecules to flow through membranes within or surrounding cells.

The term voltage dependent activation refers to the process by which 1 a voltage sensing domain of a KCNQ channel subunit moves from the resting to the activated state for example a voltage sensing domain of the KCNQ1 protein moves to an activated state in response to membrane depolarization 2 coupling for example when a voltage sensing domain of a KCNQ channel protein interacts with the channel pore pore domain and 3 opening of the channel pore.

The term agent is employed herein to refer to any kind of compound molecule or ion and any combination thereof. In one embodiment of the disclosure the agent is a small molecule. In another embodiment of the disclosure the agent is a biological molecule including but not limited to a protein or a peptide or a nucleic acid or an ion. In another embodiment the nucleic acid is an interfering RNA.

The phrase effector or effectors refers to any small molecule protein ligand or complex thereof that binds to or interacts with a KCNQ channel or a subunit thereof. The result of this interaction may modulate a biological activity including but not limited to muscle cell function cell contractility channel activation neuronal discharge membrane excitation cell signaling enzymatic activity or protein protein interaction.

The term interfering RNA is employed herein to refer to small interfering RNAs siRNAs short hairpin RNAs shRNAs microRNAs miRNAs antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes or any RNA based molecule that interferes with the expression of a protein from its corresponding gene or modulate the activity of the protein.

In the context of this disclosure the term small molecule refers to small organic compounds including but not limited to heterocycles peptides saccharides steroids antibodies and the like. The small molecule modulators preferably have a molecular weight of less than about 1500 Daltons and more preferably less than 500 Daltons. The small molecules can be modified to enhance efficacy stability pharmaceutical compatibility and the like. Candidate modulator compounds from libraries of synthetic or natural compounds can be screened. Synthetic compound libraries are commercially available from a number of companies including Maybridge Chemical Co. Trevillet Cornwall UK Comgenex Princeton N.J. Brandon Associates Merrimack N.H. Microsource New Milford Conn. and ChemBridge San Diego Calif. . Combinatorial libraries are available or can be prepared according to known synthetic techniques. Alternatively libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial fungal plant and animal extracts are available from e.g. Pan Laboratories Bothell Wash. or MycoSearch NC or are readily producible by methods well known in the art. Additionally natural and synthetically produced libraries and compounds may be further modified through conventional chemical and biochemical techniques.

The term peptide refers to a linear series of amino acid residues linked to one another by peptide bonds between the alpha amino and carboxy groups of adjacent amino acid residues.

The term synthetic peptide is intended to refer to a chemically derived chain of amino acid residues linked together by peptide bonds. The term synthetic peptide is also intended to refer to recombinantly produced peptides in accordance with the present disclosure.

The phrase subject in need thereof as used herein refers to any organism in need of treatment or requiring preventative therapy to prevent a condition resulting from lower or higher than normal levels of KCNQ channel activity in the organism by the methods of the disclosure. The subject may be a plant or an animal. The subject animal includes fish birds or mammals. The subject may be livestock such as cattle swine sheep poultry and horses or pets such as dogs and cats. In an embodiment of disclosure the subject is a human.

The term effective amount is employed herein to refer to the amount of an agent that is effective in modulating KCNQ channel activity in a subject or cell.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of the subject with toxicity irritation allergic response or other problems or complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable excipient as used herein refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent carrier manufacturing aid e.g. lubricant talc magnesium calcium or zinc stearate or stearic acid solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting the therapeutic compound for administration to the subject. Each excipient should be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the subject. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include sugars such as lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate gelatin talc waxes oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such as ethylene glycol and propylene glycol polyols such as glycerin sorbitol mannitol and polyethylene glycol esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents water isotonic saline pH buffered solutions and other non toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations. If desired certain sweetening and or flavoring and or coloring agents may be added. Other suitable excipients can be found in standard pharmaceutical texts e.g. in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 19Ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1995 .

Excipients are added to the agent for a variety of purposes. Diluents increase the bulk of a solid pharmaceutical composition and may make a pharmaceutical dosage form containing the composition easier for the patient and caregiver to handle. Diluents for solid compositions include for example microcrystalline cellulose e.g. Avicel microfine cellulose lactose starch pregelatinized starch calcium carbonate calcium sulfate sugar dextrates dextrin dextrose dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate tribasic calcium phosphate kaolin magnesium carbonate magnesium oxide maltodextrin mannitol polymethacrylates e.g. Eudragit potassium chloride powdered cellulose sodium chloride sorbitol and talc.

Solid pharmaceutical agents that are compacted into a dosage form such as a tablet may include excipients whose functions include helping to bind the active ingredient and other excipients together after compression. Binders for solid pharmaceutical compositions include acacia alginic acid carbomer e.g. carbopol carboxymethylcellulose sodium dextrin ethyl cellulose gelatin guar gum hydrogenated vegetable oil hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose e.g. Klucel hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose e.g. Methocel liquid glucose magnesium aluminum silicate maltodextrin methylcellulose polymethacrylates povidone e.g. Kollidon Plasdone pregelatinized starch sodium alginate and starch.

The dissolution rate of a compacted solid pharmaceutical composition in the subject s stomach may be increased by the addition of a disintegrant to the composition. Disintegrants include alginic acid carboxymethylcellulose calcium carboxymethylcellulose sodium e.g. Ac Di Sol Primellose colloidal silicon dioxide croscarmellose sodium crospovidone e.g. Kollidon Polyplasdone guar gum magnesium aluminum silicate methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose polacrilin potassium powdered cellulose pregelatinized starch sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate e.g. Explotab and starch.

Glidants can be added to improve the flowability of a non compacted solid agent and to improve the accuracy of dosing. Excipients that may function as glidants include colloidal silicon dioxide magnesium trisilicate powdered cellulose starch talc and tribasic calcium phosphate.

When a dosage form such as a tablet is made by the compaction of a powdered composition the composition is subjected to pressure from a punch and dye. Some excipients and active ingredients have a tendency to adhere to the surfaces of the punch and dye which can cause the product to have pitting and other surface irregularities. A lubricant can be added to the composition to reduce adhesion and ease the release of the product from the dye. Lubricants include magnesium stearate calcium stearate glyceryl monostearate glyceryl palmitostearate hydrogenated castor oil hydrogenated vegetable oil mineral oil polyethylene glycol sodium benzoate sodium lauryl sulfate sodium stearyl fumarate stearic acid talc and zinc stearate.

In liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure the modulator of a eukaryotic pathogen s adenylyl cyclase and any other solid excipients are dissolved or suspended in a liquid carrier such as water water for injection vegetable oil alcohol polyethylene glycol propylene glycol or glycerin.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions may contain emulsifying agents to disperse uniformly throughout the composition an active ingredient or other excipient that is not soluble in the liquid carrier. Emulsifying agents that may be useful in liquid compositions of the present invention include for example gelatin egg yolk casein cholesterol acacia tragacanth chondrus pectin methyl cellulose carbomer cetostearyl alcohol and cetyl alcohol.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure may also contain a viscosity enhancing agent to improve the mouth feel of the product and or coat the lining of the gastrointestinal tract. Such agents include acacia alginic acid bentonite carbomer carboxymethylcellulose calcium or sodium cetostearyl alcohol methyl cellulose ethylcellulose gelatin guar gum hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose maltodextrin polyvinyl alcohol povidone propylene carbonate propylene glycol alginate sodium alginate sodium starch glycolate starch tragacanth and xanthan gum.

Sweetening agents such as sorbitol saccharin sodium saccharin sucrose aspartame fructose mannitol and invert sugar may be added to improve the taste. Flavoring agents and flavor enhancers may make the dosage form more palatable to the patient. Common flavoring agents and flavor enhancers for pharmaceutical products that may be included in the composition of the present disclosure include maltol vanillin ethyl vanillin menthol citric acid fumaric acid ethyl maltol and tartaric acid.

Preservatives and chelating agents such as alcohol sodium benzoate butylated hydroxy toluene butylated hydroxyanisole and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid may be added at levels safe for ingestion to improve storage stability.

According to the present disclosure a liquid composition may also contain a buffer such as gluconic acid lactic acid citric acid or acetic acid sodium gluconate sodium lactate sodium citrate or sodium acetate. Selection of excipients and the amounts used may be readily determined by the formulation scientist based upon experience and consideration of standard procedures and reference works in the field.

Solid and liquid compositions may also be dyed using any pharmaceutically acceptable colorant to improve their appearance and or facilitate patient identification of the product and unit dosage level.

The dosage form of the present disclosure may be a capsule containing the composition for example a powdered or granulated solid composition of the disclosure within either a hard or soft shell. The shell may be made from gelatin and optionally contain a plasticizer such as glycerin and sorbitol and an opacifying agent or colorant.

A composition for tableting or capsule filling may be prepared by wet granulation. In wet granulation some or all of the active ingredients and excipients in powder form are blended and then further mixed in the presence of a liquid typically water that causes the powders to clump into granules. The granulate is screened and or milled dried and then screened and or milled to the desired particle size. The granulate may then be tableted or other excipients may be added prior to tableting such as a glidant and or a lubricant.

A tableting composition may be prepared conventionally by dry blending. For example the blended composition of the actives and excipients may be compacted into a slug or a sheet and then comminuted into compacted granules. The compacted granules may subsequently be compressed into a tablet.

As an alternative to dry granulation a blended composition may be compressed directly into a compacted dosage form using direct compression techniques. Direct compression produces a more uniform tablet without granules. Excipients that are particularly well suited for direct compression tableting include microcrystalline cellulose spray dried lactose dicalcium phosphate dihydrate and colloidal silica. The proper use of these and other excipients in direct compression tableting is known to those in the art with experience and skill in particular formulation challenges of direct compression tableting.

A capsule filling may include any of the aforementioned blends and granulates that were described with reference to tableting however they are not subjected to a final tableting step.

The following examples further illustrate the disclosure but should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure in any way.

Icurrents were examined by inside out membrane patches from oocytes at various intracellular ATP concentrations. Upon patch excision current ran down in low ATP consistent with previous findings that the loss of native ATP in cytosol resulted in reduced channel activity. See Loussouarn G. et al. 22 5412 2003 . However the current ran up in the presence of higher concentrations of ATP suggesting that not all the channels expressed in the membrane were active with the native cytosolic ATP that is insufficient to saturate channel activation. Thus a reserve of the Ichannels open in the presence of higher ATP concentrations resulting in currents larger than that at the patch excision B . The steady state current amplitude increased with ATP with the half maximal effective concentration EC at 1.7 mM B which is close to the physiological ATP concentration in cardiac myocytes. See Allen D. G. et al. 361 185 1985 Eisner D A. et al. 391 99 1987 Stewart L C. 26 1377 1994 . This result reveals that Iis sensitive to the cellular energetic state and fluctuations of ATP such as in ischemia alters electrical properties via regulating I.

The physiological importance of Iis supported by our subsequent finding that Q357R in KCNQ1 a LQT associated mutation identified in patients who presented arrhythmic episodes during physical exercise reduces ATP sensitivity as shown by an increased EC50 of ATP response and the fraction of the currents activated by applied high ATP . Here it is shown that channels composed of Q357R co expressed with KCNE1 Q357R I produces a smaller current amplitude a slower activation time course and a shift of the voltage dependence of activation toward more depolarized potentials as compared with the WT Ichannels measured from whole cell currents. Each of these changes in channel properties decrease the contribution of Ito the termination of cardiac action potentials resulting in prolongation of action potential duration. Furthermore application of a high concentration of ATP during inside out patch clamp recordings of Q357R Irestored the WT channel characteristics. Specifically the current amplitude increased 3 to 5 fold accounting for all of the reduction in the whole cell current and the voltage dependence of channel activation shifted back toward less depolarized voltages to nearly superimpose with that of the WT I . These results show that a decrease in ATP sensitivity of the Ichannel due to mutation Q357R leads to LQT syndrome.

This shows that the ATP dependence is an intrinsic property of KCNQ1 and not altered by KCNE1 association. Ichannels also require phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP for function and are modulated by calmodulin CaM and phosphorylation of residues S27 and S92 in KCNQ1 by protein kinase A PKA . However the response of Icurrents to ATP did not change with reduced PIP enhanced Ca or mutations S27D S92D that mimic phosphorylation indicating that ATP activates the channel independent from these other intracellular regulating molecules.

ATP activates the Ichannel by serving as the substrate for phosphorylation binding to an associated protein or directly binding to the channel proteins. To distinguish these mechanisms the ability of various nucleotides to prevent Icurrent run down was measured. GTP and a non hydrolyzable ATP analog 5 adenylyl imidodiphosphate AMP PNP in the intracellular solution sustained channel function as did ATP while the rundown of Icurrents became progressively faster when ADP and AMP were applied . Thus ATP is not unique in activating the channel and phosphorylation is not required.

On the other hand an ATP analog biotin photoprobe 2 azidoadenosine 5 triphosphate 2 3 biotin long chain hydrazone AB11 see Conner S D et al. 2005 280 21539 can be photo cross linked to the KCNQ1 protein indicating that the nucleotide directly binds to KCNQ1 to modify Ichannel function. Here it is shown that the channels formed by co expression of KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 do not require ATP for function and AB11 cannot be photo cross linked to the KCNQ2 or KCNQ3 proteins .

To locate the ATP binding site in KCNQ1 chimera channels were analyzed by transplanting the cytosolic C terminus to KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 to form Q2ctQ1 and Q3ctQ1. Similar to Ichannels formed by the co expression of Q2ctQ1 Q3ctQ1 ran down after inside out membrane patch excision suggesting that the chimeras acquire ATP sensitivity and the C terminus of KCNQ1 contains the ATP binding site. Since the potency of nucleotides in activating Ic correlates with the number of phosphates the channel associates with ATP through electrostatic interactions between basic residues and the negatively charged phosphates of ATP. A mutational scan was performed to neutralize each of all the basic residues in the intracellular loops and the C terminus of KCNQ1 to examine which of these residues affected ATP sensitivity.

The results revealed three mutations R380S K393M and R397W that reduced the expression of macroscopic Icurrents and ATP sensitivity E . Residue R380 is located in Helix A that is downstream from the S6 gate of the channel whereas K393 and R397 are located in the linker between Helix A and Helix B . While each of these mutations reduced ATP sensitivity a combined mutation R380S R397W eliminated ionic current altogether although channel expression in the plasma membrane could still be detected F . Furthermore R380S R397W also eliminated photo cross linking of the ATP analog AB11 . These results show that these three residues are part of the ATP binding site while each individual mutation reduces ATP binding the combined mutations disrupt ATP binding resulting in the loss of channel function. Likewise mutating each of these residues to negatively charged amino acid residues which could repel ATP also eliminated ionic currents of I . A Mutational scan of each aromatic residue in Helix A B and the A B linker identified one mutation W379S that eliminated ionic current and AB1 photo cross linking of I F suggesting that W379 also participates in ATP binding. Interestingly the mutations of the putative ATP binding site W379S R380S K393M and R397W are all associated with LQTS further revealing the physiological importance of ATP modulation of I.

As a member of the Kv channel family KCNQ1 is comprised of a voltage sensing domain VSD and a pore gate domain PD . The Ichannel contains four KCNQ1 subunits with the VSD s surrounding a central pore across the membrane in response to membrane depolarization voltage sensors move to trigger pore opening. See Larrson et al. 2010 . Voltage clamp fluorometry VCF was used to investigate whether ATP binding affects voltage sensor movements or pore opening fluorescence signals from a fluorophore Alexa 488 C5 maleimide attached to VSD see methods in Example 12 below were recorded to monitor VSD movements while ionic currents were simultaneously measured to show pore opening . The mutations that disrupt ATP binding W379S and R380S R397W eliminated ionic currents of KCNQ1 but did not abolish F F signals. Moreover the F V relationship is superimposed with that of the WT KCNQ1 showing that ATP binding is not required for VSD movements but necessary for subsequent pore opening. These results lead to a conceptual model for ATP dependent activation of KCNQ1 and Ichannels such that ATP binding to the channel PGD is a prerequisite for the pore to open but does not affect VSD activation. This experimental data of I ATP dose response and G V relationship of Iat various ATP s shows that the co expression of KCNE1 does not alter the fundamental mechanism of ATP dependent activation. The lack of influence of KCNE1 on ATP dependent activation is also supported by the result that both KCNQ1 and Ichannels showed a similar response to ATP .

The disruption of ATP binding in the background of Q357R does not affect F V relation . Q357 is located immediately C terminal to the S6 gate in KCNQ1 and away from the amino acids cluster that are important for ATP binding yet it causes a reduction in ATP sensitivity of Iactivation . Although the WT Iactivation requires ATP binding the properties of Iactivation including steady state G V relation and time course of voltage dependent activation and deactivation do not change with ATP Q357R renders the G V relation depending on ATP . While Q357R alters the slope of F V relation as compared to the WT KCNQ1 B the mutation does not change the properties of IG V relation at high ATP suggesting that a change in VSD movement may not relate to the change in ATP dependence of G V relations. This reveals that all these changes are not brought by a direct influence of the mutation on ATP binding because unlike Q357R mutations that directly affect ATP binding do not cause a shift of G V relation to different voltages with the native ATP . Interestingly a simple change in the equilibrium constant of pore opening in the model can recapitulate the mutation caused changes in ATP sensitivity and ATP dependence of G V relations . These results are consistent with the mechanism that ATP binding regulates pore opening and a change in pore open probability allosterically alters the ATP regulation. Since all of the reported mutations are associated with LQTS these results show that mutations of KCNQ1 can alter ATP dependent activation of the Ichannel with various mechanisms to cause human diseases.

Using voltage clamp fluorometry VCF on channels expressed in oocytes the effect of PIPdepletion on VSD activation and PD opening was determined simultaneously. In VCF fluorescent labeling of the S3 S4 linker generates measurable changes in fluorescent intensity that are correlated with S4 movement during VSD activation meanwhile measurement of the whole cell ionic current detects PD opening. Here pseudo wild type psWT C214A G219C C331A Kv7.1 channels were used to avoid non specific labeling of native C214 and C331 and labeled position G219C with Alexa 488 C5 maleimide. See Osteen J D et al. 107 22710 2010 . To deplete PIP CiVSP a voltage sensing lipid phosphatase that rapidly dephosphorylates PIPupon membrane depolarization was expressed in cells according to the protocol provided in Murata Y. et al. 435 1239 2005 . When CiVSP was activated with a train of six depolarizing 60 mV pulses the psWT channel current was robustly inhibited. In clear contrast the magnitude of the fluorescence signal change F F was unaltered by CiVSP indicating that VSD activation still occurs after PIPdepletion. As an alternative method to VCF VSD activation was analyzed using MTSES 2 sulfo natoethyl methanethiosulfonate modification of I230C in S4 which is only accessible to MTSES when the VSD is activated. See for example Murata Y et al. 2005 . This experiment confirmed that VSD activation occurs in the absence of PIP. After PIPdepletion the steady state voltage dependence of VSD activation reflected in the fluorescence voltage F V relationship was unchanged while the ionic currents were inhibited. Altogether these results demonstrate that PIPis not required for detection of membrane voltage within the VSD.

Applicants tested whether PIPis required for coupling. Coupling was quantified by measuring the effect of VSD activation on PD opening or by measuring how PD opening affects VSD activation. See Ryu S. 140 469 2012 . This approach enables the measurement of VSD activation after PIPdepletion when PD opening became undetectable. In order to promote pore opening the mutation L353K was introduced into the S6 gate. psWT L353K channels conducted instantaneous current at every voltage we applied and these currents were not reduced when we expressed and activated CiVSP. Furthermore psWT L353K currents reversed near K equilibrium and were reduced when the Kv7.1 pore blocker chromanol 293B was applied according to the methods disclosed in Lerche C. et al. 71 1503 2007 which provides evidence that the observed constitutive currents were indeed conducted by expressed psWT L353K channels. By comparing the VSD activation of psWT and locked open psWT L353K channels VSD PD coupling was detected directly as a leftward shift in the F V relationship. This shift is consistent with the positive coupling between VSD activation and PD opening i.e. less energy is required to activate the VSD if the PD is open. When PIPwas depleted using CiVSP the psWT L353K channels remained open but their F V relationship no longer differed from psWT channels. This showed that PIPis required for PD opening by L353K to promote VSD activation.

Next other mutations were tested to determine whether PIPis required to affect VSD activation and two such mutations e.g. S349A G350A were identified. S349A G350A and L353 are located in the S6 gate and homology modeling predicted that they do not interact with the VSD or the S4 S5 linker. This reveals that these mutations directly alter PD opening and indirectly affect VSD activation through PIP dependent coupling. Thus the data provided herein clearly show that PIPis required both for VSD activation to cause PD opening and for PD opening to affect the activation of the VSD. Taken together these findings show that a membrane lipid is required for the functional coupling between the VSD and the PD.

A critical step to understanding how PIPbinding mediates VSD PD coupling was to identify its binding site. Using a Kv7.1 homology model 16 basic residues that are located near VSD PD interface were identified. These residues are highly conserved among the Kv7 channels which require PIPfor voltage dependent gating but are poorly conserved among other Kv channels that do not require PIP . Using site directed mutagenesis each of these basic residues in WT Kv7.1 were individually neutralized and the effect on the expressed current amplitude was measured using two electrode voltage clamp. Because the endogenous level of PIPin the oocyte membrane is within the sensitive range of Kv7.1 a reduction of PIPsensitivity by any mutation is will reduce Kv7.1 currents. The data reveal that eight mutations R190Q R195Q H258N R259Q K354N R360Q H363N R366Q severely decreased 50 reduction C blue the whole cell current amplitude and four mutations R192Q R243Q K358N K362N that had a milder reduction 

Next the mutations identified were examined for their ability to affect current amplitude by changing the apparent PIPaffinity. Applicants measured the time course of the current rundown that occurs spontaneously as phosphoinositides are lost from excised membrane patches. Applicants found that the effects of mutations K358N K362N R181Q K183N R249Q R249E on the time course of rundown after patch excision were correlated with their effects on expressed current amplitude. That is relative to WT channels the rundown was faster for the mild loss of current mutations and slower for the gain of current mutations . These results further support the finding that the mutations of conserved basic residues at the VSD PD interface affect a PIPmediated process that is required for channel function.

Next the strength of VSD PD coupling for several of the mutations identified herein was directly quantified including but not limited to R192Q R195Q K196E K358N K358E R360Q R360E K362N H363N R366Q by measuring the F V shift caused by locking the PD open with L353K. The mutations influenced VSD PD coupling in a manner that was correlated with their effect on the expressed current amplitude i.e. the loss of current mutations decreased the magnitude of the F V shift while the gain of current mutations increased the F V shift . Strikingly the equilibrium model predicted this relationship when the binding constant for PIP K D black line was varied. Taken together these results suggest that these mutations disrupt VSD PD coupling and decrease channel current by directly affecting PIPbinding.

Applicants mapped these data onto a Kv7.1 homology model and found a cluster of severe loss of current residues at the VSD PD interface that includes R190 and R195 in the S2 S3 linker H258 and R259 in the S4 S5 linker and K354 in the proximal C terminus. In the experiments herein these mutations mimicked the effects of PIPdepletion on psWT channels they severely inhibited the ionic current did not prevent VSD activation and greatly diminished the VSD PD coupling. Therefore this cluster of basic residues constitutes a critical interaction site for PIPmediated coupling. These findings show that applicants have identified site is a PIPbinding site that is conserved among voltage dependent and voltage independent K channels.

PIPmediated coupling in Kv7.1 has direct implications for human pathophysiology. In the heart Kv7.1 subunits co assemble with KCNE1 accessory subunits to generate the slow delayed rectifier current I that regulates the duration of the cardiac action potential. Inherited loss of function mutations of Kv7.1 and KCNE1 are associated with Long QT Syndrome LQTS in which the ventricular action potential duration is prolonged resulting in a high risk of ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death. Many LQTS associated mutations affect the basic residues in the PIPpocket for example R190Q R190W 258N H258R R259H R259C R259L R360T R366Q R366W R366P. For these mutations loss of VSD PD coupling compromises the Ichannel function and create a substrate for cardiac arrhythmias. The results demonstrate that modifiers of VSD activation will not rescue channel function for these mutations. Furthermore drugs that force the PD open will abolish the voltage and time dependence of the Icurrent that is critical for the timing of the action potential. Thus a drug that targets PIPdependent coupling amplifies current without losing these physiologically important characteristics.

Like most voltage dependent channels Kv7.1 contains two conserved glutamates in S2 E1 and E2 and a series of arginines in S4 R1 R2 etc. . However Kv7.1 has a glutamine Q3 at what is the third arginine position and a histidine H5 at what is the fifth arginine position in other Kv channels. Applicants found that E1K or E1K KCNE1 generates current indistinguishable from background current expressed by native oocyte channels without or with KCNE1 

Inspection of the sequence of Kv7.1 and KCNE1 reveals that the arginines in the S4 segment of Kv7.1 are the only positively charged residues in the membrane spanning segments. E1R paired with R1E R2E Q3E or R4E generated currents significantly larger than currents from E1R alone E . While S0E H5E and R6E that flank these four residues could not rescue any current . These data show that E1 interacts electrostatically not only with R4 but also with R1 and R2. Q3 is also positioned to interact with E1 through hydrogen bonding in native channels. Restoring electrostatic attractions between specific residues and E1R allows S4 to occupy an activated conformation so that channels can open albeit with properties different from WT channels. All the rescued currents except for E1R Q3E changed instantaneously in response to voltages from 120 to 60 mV . These currents have reversal potentials that approach the K equilibrium potential 80 90 mV and are be blocked by the Kv7.1 pore blocker chromanol 293B confirming that these are K currents carried through the conduction pore of constitutively open channels.

Site directed mutations were introduced using overlap extension and high fidelity PCF. DNA sequencing confirmed each mutation. RNA was made by in vitro transcription using the mMessage mMachine T7 polymerase kit Applied Biosystems .

9.2 ng of channel cRNA was injected using Nanoject Drummond into each of stage V VI defollicuated oocytes from . For expression of CiVSP 2.3 ng of CiVSP RNA was injected simultaneously. The cells were incubated at 18 C. for 4 7 days for robust expression in ND96 solution in mM 96 NaCl 2 KCl 1.8 CaCl 1 MgCl 5 HEPES 0.3 K2EDTA .

Two electrode voltage clamp Whole cell currents were recorded from oocytes bathed in ND96 solution using a CA B amplifier Dagan in two electrode voltage clamp mode. Microelectrodes were pulled to a resistance of 0.3 3 M and filled with 3 mM KCl. Signals were sampled at 1 KHz using the Patchmaster acquisition software HEKA . The holding potential was set to 80 mV throughout unless otherwise specified.

Voltage clamp fluorometry For VCF oocytes were labeled on ice for 45 minutes in 10 M Alexa 488 C5 Maleimide Life Technologies in high potassium depolarizing solution in mM 98 KCl 1.8 CaCl2 1 MgCl2 5 HEPES PH 7.6 . The cells were washed with ND96 and kept on ice until VCF recording. Fluorescent signals were recorded simultaneously with the whole cell TEVC currents in ND96 solution using a DLMFS Leica upright microscope through a FITC filter cube Lieca . Light from a standard 100W halogen bulb was focused onto the animal pole of the oocyte and emission from the cube was focused on a P20A photodiode. The current from the photodiode was amplified using an EPC10 patch amplified HEKA low pass filtered at 200 Hz and sampled at 1 KHz using Patchmaster HEKA .

Patch clamp Inside out membrane patches were formed using patch electrodes pulled to 0.5 1 M and filled with pipette solution in mM 140 KMeSO3 20 HEPES 2 KCl 2 MgCl2 PH 7.2 and excised into the bathing solution in mM 140 KMeSO3 20 HEPES 2 KCl 5 EGTA 1.5 mM MgATP PH 7.2 . Macroscopic currents were recorded at room temperature using an Axopatch 200 B amplifier Axon Instruments driven by the Pulse HEKA acquisition software. Current were digitized at 1 KHz. All recordings were made in room temperature 20 22 C. .

The baseline fluorescence was fit with a line during the 2 seconds at the 80 mV holding potential that preceded each test pulse. This linear baseline approximation was extrapolated to the duration of the pulse and F F was calculated as F t F t F t where F t is the fluorescent intensity at time t AU and F t is the extrapolated baseline value at time t. The Boltzmann equation was used to fit the fluorescence voltage relationships Normalized F V PVa V 1 1 exp z F V V RT where PVa is the voltage dependent probability of the voltage sensor assuming the activated state V is the test voltage V Vis the voltage of half maximal voltage sensor activation z is the number of elementary charges translocated across the membrane upon VSD activation R is the gas constant J K mol and F is the faraday constant C mol .

2 sulfo natoethyl methanethiosulfonate MTSES Toronto Research Chemicals was dissolved in DMSO at 100 mM aliquoted and frozen immediately. Aliquots were thawed just prior to use and added directly to bath solution in a bolus to achieve the desired final concentration.

Membrane expression was detected through biotinylation and Western blot see Wu et al. . 2010 . Cell surface proteins of intact oocytes were labeled with 1 mg ml of Sulfo NHS SS Biotin Thermo Scientific . The cells were washed homogenized and incubated with Neutravidin beads Thermo Scientific to pull down biotin labeled proteins. The pulled down proteins were probed via Western blot using a Kv7.1 antibody Santa Cruz Biotechnology or a GP antibody to test for labeling of cytosolic proteins.

