---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a collaborative reply over an ad-hoc mesh network
abstract: An approach is provided for providing a collaborative reply to a flooding message over an ad-hoc mesh network. A reply message to a flooding message is received by a wireless node within the ad-hoc network. The wireless node monitors for an acknowledgement of receipt of the reply message according to a routing table and initiates a scheduled transmission of the reply message based on the monitoring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185521&OS=09185521&RS=09185521
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 09185521
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20140806
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 487 529 filed Jun. 4 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 475 351 filed May 29 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 194 541 issued on Jun. 5 2012 the entirety of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Wireless e.g. cellular service providers and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services applications and content. One area of development is the use of device to device communication networks and devices to automatically determine information and context about the local environment. However technical challenges relating to power consumption signaling overhead security and privacy have hindered such development.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for efficiently locating and organizing information and associated context in a local environment.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node. The method also comprises determining whether a receiving wireless node is specified in a routing table associated with the reply message. The method further comprises initiating transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node in the routing table if the receiving wireless node is specified in the routing table. The method further comprises initiating a collaborative reply process if the receiving wireless node is not specified in the routing table.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to receive a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node. The apparatus is also caused to determine whether a receiving wireless node is specified in a routing table associated with the reply message. The apparatus is further caused to initiate transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node in the routing table if the receiving wireless node is specified in the routing table. The apparatus is further caused to initiate a collaborative reply process if the receiving wireless node is not specified in the routing table.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to receive a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node. The apparatus is also caused to determine whether a receiving wireless node is specified in a routing table associated with the reply message. The apparatus is further caused to initiate transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node in the routing table if the receiving wireless node is specified in the routing table. The apparatus is further caused to initiate a collaborative reply process if the receiving wireless node is not specified in the routing table.

According to one embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node. The apparatus also comprises means for determining whether a receiving wireless node is specified in a routing table associated with the reply message. The apparatus further comprises means for initiating transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node in the routing table if the receiving wireless node is specified in the routing table. The apparatus further comprises means for initiating a collaborative reply process if the receiving wireless node is not specified in the routing table.

According to another embodiment a method comprises providing access for receiving a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node for monitoring for acknowledgement of receipt of the reply message by a wireless node specified in a routing table corresponding to the flooding message and for initiating transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node as specified in the routing table and for sharing information anonymously among neighboring wireless nodes.

According to yet another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for providing access for receiving a reply message to a flooding message from a neighboring wireless node for monitoring for acknowledgement of receipt of the reply message by a wireless node specified in a routing table corresponding to the flooding message and for initiating transmission of the reply message to a next recipient wireless node as specified in the routing table and for sharing information anonymously among neighboring wireless nodes.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus for providing awareness information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term awareness information refers to any information and or context about a local environment as well as the users and communication devices within the local environment. By way of example awareness information can be used to support applications for creating social networks determining presence determining contexts associated with a device advertising searching for information etc. Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used within any type of communication system or network.

As shown in a system comprises one or more wireless nodes optionally having connectivity to a communication network through either operator A or operator B . The wireless nodes are any type of mobile terminal portable terminal or fixed terminal including mobile handsets personal computers stations units devices multimedia tablets Internet nodes communicators Personal Digital Assistants PDAs radio readable tags e.g. near field communication NFC tags radio frequency identification RFID tags or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the wireless nodes can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In exemplary embodiments the wireless nodes form an ad hoc mesh network for sharing awareness information. The ad hoc mesh network is for instance a connectionless and serverless device to device network e.g. a mobile ad hoc network MANET created using short range radio technology e.g. wireless local area network WLAN or Bluetooth . Within the ad hoc mesh network each wireless node may be mobile and is within communication range of any number of other wireless nodes . Accordingly the set of wireless nodes that is within communication range of any a particular wireless node is transient and can change as the wireless nodes move from location to location.

As discussed previously service providers and device manufacturers that are developing communication systems and networks for providing awareness information face many technical challenges. For example current ad hoc radios e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth are designed for connectivity e.g. connectivity via Internet protocol IP . However in an always on environment such as the ad hoc mesh network it is not practical to have a large number of wireless nodes e.g. mobile handset devices connected by for instance IP to each other for extended periods of time because of power usage and scalability problems. Specifically a multi hop connection in a large ad hoc network typically requires a significant amount of control signaling and power and can quickly deplete a mobile device s battery. Moreover scalability can be a problem because current ad hoc radios are typically limited in the number of connections and the related signaling that they can support at any given time. Another shortcoming of current ad hoc radios is that they do not adequately protect a user s privacy because they expose the user s identity through a fixed network address e.g. a media access control MAC address associated with the user s device.

To address these problems the system creates the ad hoc mesh network for sharing awareness information in a connectionless fashion. As used herein the term connectionless refers to the ability of a node e.g. wireless node to send and of all surrounding nodes to receive awareness information without the need to send any prior control signaling. For example sending awareness information using the transmission control protocol IP TCP IP over a WLAN ad hoc is not connectionless because of the two way TCP control signaling between the sending and receiving nodes used to establish the TCP connection. The awareness information is provided for instance in small anonymous messages that are exchanged by the wireless nodes automatically without user intervention. As used herein the term anonymous means that it is not possible to infer the true identity of the sender from the message unless the true identity is intentionally included in the message e.g. by the user or another entity authorized by the user . The exchange of awareness information occurs as a broadcast message i.e. a flooding message from a wireless node to neighboring wireless nodes that are within range of the radio of the broadcasting wireless node . As neighboring wireless nodes receive the broadcasted message each receiving wireless node may in turn rebroadcast the message to other neighboring wireless nodes . In this way the originally broadcasted message propagates throughout the ad hoc mesh network . In exemplary embodiments the extent of the propagation may be limited by criteria such as distance location time etc.

Unlike traditional systems such messages are only for carrying awareness information and are not for transporting content e.g. files or media containing voice video etc between two wireless nodes e.g. wireless nodes and . Instead the messages contain only pointers to the content or a small amount of data e.g. presence or context information to minimize the data traffic transported over the ad hoc mesh network . The wireless nodes may then access the content using other communication channels e.g. via IP through the communication network . In addition the system eliminates the problems associated with traditional methods for route establishment and maintenance e.g. connection based communication protocols such as maintaining and handing off connections as mobile devices move and requiring high levels of network resources for maintaining connections in an environment with a high number or density of mobile devices. For example the event of a wireless node appearing disappearing to from the network does not generate any control signaling in the ad hoc mesh network . Similarly the system creates routing information only when needed to route replies to queries back to the querying node. The routing information is generated by using the query messages alone i.e. no control signaling is used for creating routing information . After the query and subsequent reply process is completed the routes are forgotten. In other words the query reply process of system provisions routes for a reply to provide awareness information on demand rather than pushing awareness information from one node to another. In exemplary embodiments both push e.g. information is published over the ad hoc mesh network and pull e.g. information is queried from other nodes of the ad hoc mesh network modes of disseminating awareness information are possible. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the pull mode of operation can be used instead of the push mode to help suppress potential spam messages.

Moreover the system optimizes the power consumption of wireless nodes communicating over the ad hoc mesh network to enable always on operation without seriously affecting the battery life of the wireless nodes . For instance by utilizing only short awareness messages by eliminating the need for any route maintenance signaling by employing procedures to minimize transmission and reception of duplicative messages and by enabling an efficient sleep scheme for the short range device to device radio used within each wireless node allowed by the low latency requirements typical of an awareness information network the system can potentially provide hundreds of hours e.g. over 400 hours of continuous operation of each wireless node between battery charges in a mobile device. The system could be seen as a nervous system between the mobile devices where small messages nerve impulses are continuously exchanged by the mobile devices neurons in order to bring awareness to the user of a mobile device about the user s surroundings.

The system also enables the development of new services and applications based on awareness information e.g. social networking applications location based applications application for determining presence applications for determining context advertising applications . In particular the continuous and immediate nature of the awareness information with respect to local environment enables compelling new services. For instance awareness information may be combined with the increasingly available storage and computing power in mobile devices e.g. wireless nodes to create a local semantic web whereby local awareness information is created and searched for automatically by wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . As used herein the term semantic web refers to a system in which the information and messages shared with the system is understandable by the nodes within the system. It is noted that establishing such a local semantic web using the system overcomes two major problems blocking the development of a global semantic web 1 lack of mechanism for providing semantic content on a large scale and 2 lack of semantically aware search engines to help users find information in a semantic web. The system can also be used for collaborative context calculation publishing pointers to information or content search for friends within a defined community finding out what is going on and what kind of people are around a user making the environment aware of the user and other like applications.

In a first use case the awareness information alerts a user to nearby people or places. For example a user is visiting a new town when the wireless node alerts the user that Salvatore a friend of your friend David is nearby. The user may then arrange to meet Salvatore to get a recommendation for sites to visit in the new town. In another example a user is looking for a good restaurant in an unfamiliar neighborhood. An application based on awareness information may present a list of local restaurants ranked by the number of people currently eating in the restaurant that have the same food preferences as the user. Such a list can be collected based on queries and replies that contain anonymous information of people s food preferences.

In a second use case an application uses the awareness information to discover events near the user. For example as a user passes a park the wireless node informs the user based on messages exchanged between nearby devices that There is a Japanese culture festival in the Tea Garden Park five members of your Kabuki community are there Zen Mi Xia Talo and Chris. The user may then decide to attend the festival.

In a third use case an application provides location based or context based services using awareness information. For example a wireless node does not have positioning capabilities but nonetheless knows that it is in a grocery store based on anonymous awareness information from other nearby wireless nodes . It is contemplated that the grocery store may also place a node in the store to provide such context information possibly combined with other store specific information such as the address of the store s web page. The wireless node then reminds the user to Remember to buy dishwasher detergent based on the user s location in a grocery store. The awareness information can also be the physical position information from a neighboring wireless node that has the positioning capability. Sharing of positioning information with a neighboring node with such a capability can enable nodes without such capability to offer navigational services.

In another example a group of people are attending a meeting. The meeting invitation includes an identification code for that particular meeting that is stored in the mobile nodes of the meeting attendees e.g. the identification code may be stored in the calendar data . Using the principles set forth in this invention the nodes can exchange the meeting identification code over the ad hoc mesh network while attending the meeting. Comparing the exchanged identification code in a user s wireless device can for instance establish whether the users was indeed at the meeting corresponding to the identification code. Such accurate social context knowledge can be used for instance to adapt the service or application behavior towards the user.

In a fourth use case an application provides for search of local information that changes rapidly and very specific to a local environment. The local information often does not reach traditional Internet search engines. For example a user bought tickets to a concert but discovers at the last minute that the user cannot attend. The user stores a string Ticket to concert X at venue Y is available into the awareness services module of the user s wireless node . As a result a nearby wireless node within a few street blocks away that searches for tickets by sending query messages with a string Ticket concert X over the multi hop ad hoc mesh network will receive the user s ticket availability message as an automatic reply.

In a fifth use case an application enables locally targeted advertising. For example it is almost closing time for a local fresh fruit market. The merchants decide to publish an advertisement over the ad hoc mesh network that Apples are 50 off for the rest of the day. The advertisement is available to users who live nearby the market. In another example a user browses an advertisement for a new printer on a wireless node . In the browsing activity a code attached to the advertisement is stored in the awareness services module . Upon searching and finding such a code a nearby electronics store sends the user an offer to sell the printer with a 10 discount.

In a sixth use case an application automatically creates an activity log based on the awareness information associated with a user. For example the application records the people the user meets along with other awareness information such as when where context etc. The user then meets a person while walking on the street. The person looks familiar but the user does not recall the person s name or how the user knows the person. The wireless node running the application reports that the person s name is David and that the user met him at a soccer match one year ago in London.

In a seventh use case an application provides the capability to initiate local discussion threads and group chats over the ad hoc mesh network . For example the supporters of a football team form a community over the ad hoc mesh network wherein community members can send short text messages e.g. of small enough size to be sent directly over the ad hoc mesh network that can be received and read only by the fan club community members of that particular team.

By way of example the awareness services module includes three layers a cognition layer a community layer and a network layer . The cognition layer is the highest control layer for sharing awareness information. As shown in the cognition layer includes a control logic and item storage . The control logic for instance provides the logic for creating publishing querying and receiving awareness information over the ad hoc mesh network . The control logic can store the information that it either creates or receives in the item storage . It is contemplated that the item storage may be of sufficient size to store all or a portion of the information that flows through the wireless node over a configurable period of time e.g. days months or years .

In exemplary embodiments the control logic enables querying and dissemination of awareness information by initiating the flooding of the query or information to neighboring wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . For example upon receiving a query the wireless nodes in the local neighborhood that has the queried information reply to the querying node automatically. In exemplary embodiments the reply information is also automatically stored in the item storage of each wireless node through which the propagating reply passes. Moreover the reply to a query may result in return of a pointer to specific content relevant to the query rather than the content itself under certain circumstances e.g. when the specific content is large in size . It is contemplated that the reply may contain direct content if the content is relatively small e.g. a few tens bytes of information . By using a pointer the system minimizes the data traffic that flows through the ad hoc mesh network . The user may then access the content via the pointer e.g. a universal resource locator URL address IP address via a more appropriate communication protocol e.g. IP and or means of communication e.g. infrastructure networks . The receipt of the pointer e.g. IP address may automatically trigger the transfer of the content using for instance the communication protocol associated with the pointer. In the case of broadcasting or publishing information any wireless node through which the published information propagates may store the information in item storage of the wireless node .

In other exemplary embodiments awareness information can also be published directly by flooding an awareness message. Such a push mode for the dissemination of awareness information can be used to support some applications e.g. advertising or group chatting over the ad hoc mesh network .

It is recognized that privacy and anonymity may be of concern to users of the system . Accordingly the control logic provides mechanisms for ensuring privacy and anonymity. For example the control logic can prevent the transmission of intimate information when the number of neighboring wireless nodes is small to prevent the possibility of inferring identity. As used herein the term intimate information refers to information directly related to the user e.g. the user s habits tastes or preferences musical preferences favorite restaurants etc. .

The control logic may also periodically broadcast decoy queries and replies to make tracking an individual wireless node more difficult. Since an outside observer does not know the authentication key associated with a community the observer cannot distinguish a valid message from a fictitious one. Accordingly by observing decoy messages the observer is likely to detect presence of a private community when there is not one. Additionally the control logic enables to user to define filters for incoming information e.g. filter advertisements and how these filters would work e.g. ignore the information completely relay the information but do not store etc. . It is also contemplated that the user can direct the control logic to control the user s visibility on the ad hoc mesh network e.g. no visibility visible only to a certain community or other user to maintain privacy. As another mechanism for protecting privacy the control logic can interact with the community layer to anonymize a specific message and corresponding identifiers as described below with respect to the community layer .

Because one of the goals of the system is to provide a mechanism for anonymous spreading of awareness information it is recognized that undesired or unsolicited messages e.g. spam messages may become a problem. To address this problem the control logic may obtain for instance information from the lower system layers of the awareness services module about the traffic load and current average power consumption. If the traffic load is medium or high meaning that also power consumption related to system is medium or high restrictions may be set for the frequency at which flooding messages are sent by the control logic . It is also contemplated that the neighboring peer nodes can be configured to not forward any flooding messages originating from a node neglecting such message restrictions.

The cognition layer together with the community layer provide an application programming interface API to enable an application to access the functions of the control logic and the item storage . In exemplary embodiments the API enables application developers to have uniform and easy access to functions related to sharing awareness information over the ad hoc mesh network . It is contemplated that the API is extensible to accommodate any application designed to access or use awareness information. The applications in the various nodes do not have to be the same or mutually compatible. It is sufficient that the applications use the API correctly to be able to publish and search awareness information in the surrounding nodes .

The cognition layer also has connectivity to the community layer . The community layer controls the formation and cataloging of communities of wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . By way of example a user may create any number of communities for sharing awareness information. It is contemplated that a community may be either a peer community e.g. any wireless node may join a personal community e.g. a wireless node may join only if invited or the open local community that consists of all nodes in the local neighborhood. In exemplary embodiments the messages that traverse between the wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network belong to one of these three community types. Communities can either be private messages are encrypted or public no encryption used . In exemplary embodiments membership and status in a community affect how the wireless node shares awareness information see the discussion with respect to for additional details of community membership .

Furthermore a community may be created for any purpose or duration e.g. a permanent work community a permanent community of friends a temporary community of concert goers lasting only the duration of the concert etc. . As shown in the community layer includes a community control module a community directory and an encryption decryption module . The community control module provides the logic for creating joining managing e.g. updating membership configuring settings and preferences setting privacy policies and deleting communities. The module also provides part of the API .

In exemplary embodiments the community control module assigns a unique community identification number CID to each community for use within the ad hoc mesh network . The control module can also generate authentication keys K associated with the CID to for instance authenticate users who wish to join the community or authenticate messages directed to the community. For example a wireless node may invite another wireless node to join a community by transferring the CID and authentication keys associated with the community to the other wireless node . It is contemplated that the transfer of the CID and corresponding authentication key may occur using short range radio or using another secure mechanism e.g. short message service SMS or electronic mail . It is noted that both peer and personal communities use a CID and corresponding K whereas the open local community either can use a predetermined value for CID e.g. zero or does not use the CID at all.

To ensure privacy as discussed above the community control module interacts an encryption decryption module to anonymize the CID when including the CID in messages over the ad hoc mesh network . For example a wireless node may direct a query to a specific community using an anonymized CID e.g. a pseudonym associated with the community in lieu of the actual CID. In exemplary embodiments multiple anonymized CIDs may be used to represent a single community. In this way it is more difficult to identify queries corresponding to a particular community by monitoring traffic within the ad hoc mesh network . From the perspective of an outside observer the anonymized CIDs look random. In addition the encryption decryption module may encrypt or decrypt message data using for instance a temporary key that is periodically derived from the authentication key K associated with the CID. These measures hinder the discovery of the CID by outsiders that do not have the authentication key. By way of example the community layer inserts a special header into the messages that it receives from the cognition layer . The special header for instance contains a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to which the message is relevant.

When the wireless node is in the joined state the wireless node may also be in either an inactive state or an active state . To transition between the inactive state and the active state the application may issue a command to either activate or deactivate the joined state via the application programming interface . When the wireless node is in the inactive state the community layer abandons the message even though it is a member of the community. In certain embodiments the wireless node may also be invisible to other members of the community while in the inactive state . For example the wireless node may enter the inactive state when it temporarily does not want to receive or share information with the community. When the wireless node is in the active state the community layer encrypts and decrypts community messages as usual for private communities and enables all outgoing and incoming community specific messages for public communities e.g. communities with no restrictions on membership .

Within the active state the wireless node may also be in either an invisible state or a visible state . To transition between the invisible state and the visible state the application issues a command to set either the visible or invisible state. When in the invisible state the community specific identity e.g. a user alias associated with the wireless node cannot be queried by other members of the community. For example in the invisible state the community layer continues to receive and send community messages without its identity known to other community members. When in the visible state the identity of the wireless node can be queried by other members of the community.

In various embodiments the community directory of the community layer maintains for instance information on the communities that the user has joined. Such information contains at least the community identification CID . Additionally it may contain public and or private authentication keys K of the joined communities and a list of anonymized community identifiers for each community. The community control module may periodically recalculate the list of anonymized CIDs. By way of example the community layer inserts a header into the message it receives from the cognition layer . The header contains for instance a list of anonymized community identifiers identifying the communities to which the message is relevant.

It is contemplated that a special personal community can be reserved for tracking new bonds or relationships created between users. Consider for example that user A meets user B for the first time and wants to create a radio bond between the mobile devices corresponding to each user. In one embodiment user A can initiate the creation this bond with user B by transferring to user B e.g. by using a secure transfer mechanism the CID and the public K of user A s personal new bonds community. Similarly user B may give user A similar credentials corresponding to user B s new bonds community. Once the credentials are exchanged and the bond has been created user A may find user B over the ad hoc mesh network by searching for members of user A s new bonds community. In other words with a simple search of a single community user A can search for all the people in user A s local neighborhood with whom she has created a bond. This requires that a high number of community CIDs and Ks can be stored in the community directory . Also an effective lookup of the community directory must be provided. There are many existing and good solutions for such efficient lookup.

As the user creates new bonds the number community CIDs and Ks stored in the user s community directory can grow quite large. Accordingly to enable effective search of a large number of communities the community layer may generate a special community search message to initiate the search. For example the special community search message contains at least in part a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to be searched. To protect the privacy the community layer can generate a new set of anonymized community identifiers for each community search message. If the community layer finds a match to any of the anonymized community identifiers in any of the neighboring nodes that receives the search message the community layer generates a reply message that may contain the alias of the user in that community or other community specific information. The reply message may be encrypted with the encryption key of the community.

As shown in the community layer has connectivity to the cognition layer above and the network layer below. The network layer manages the rebroadcasting of received flooding messages and the routing of the unicast typically reply messages received by the wireless node . depicts a diagram of the components of the network layer according to an exemplary embodiment. The network layer includes a network control module routing table neighbor table message identification MID table and message table . The network control module directs the broadcasts of messages and information by managing and updating the routing table neighbor table MID table and message table . In certain embodiments the network control module may also assist in protecting the privacy and anonymity of users by periodically changing the network layer identification associated with the wireless node . It is noted that making such a change in the network layer identification between queries does not cause routing problems for replies because the routing information is recreated by each query in the ad hoc mesh network .

In exemplary embodiments the network layer may insert a header into messages it receives from the community layer to for instance direct flooding and routing of the received messages. The structure of this network layer message header is discussed with respect to . is a diagram of the data structure of a network layer message header according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown the message header contains the following fields 1 a TX field to identify the transmitter node ID NID of the last transmitting node 2 a SRC field to identify the source node ID of the node that originated the message 3 a DST field to identify the destination source ID of the intended recipient of a unicast reply message e.g. this field is give a value of zero when the message is a flooding messages 4 a MSN field to identify the message sequence number assigned by the source node and 5 a hop count field that is incremented by one by each node that transmits the message. In certain embodiments the message header may also contain the following optional fields 6 a geographical limit field to designate the extent of the physical over which the message is intended to propagate e.g. the geographical limit field may contain a geographical position of the source node and a maximum flooding radius from that position 7 a temporal limit field e.g. the temporal limit field may contain the time when the message becomes obsolete and should be dropped and 8 a context limit field that defines the context beyond which the message is not intended to propagate e.g. a message related to a particular concert is not intended to extend beyond the concert venue .

Returning to the network layer also contains a routing table . In exemplary embodiments the routing table contains a listing of the node identification number NID of the originating wireless node e.g. source NID and the NIDs of the last known transmitters of the message. The purpose of the routing table is to enable the routing of the reply messages e.g. unicast messages back to the querying node that originated the query through a flooding message. As the message propagates through the ad hoc mesh network each subsequent wireless node that receives the message adds the NID of the last transmitter to the routing table to record the next hop neighbor towards the source node. The source node is marked as the destination node DST in the routing table. Also the message sequence number of the message is recorded. The update of the routing table is coordinated by the network control module . As shown in Table 1 the routing table lists the destination NID the transmitter NIDs associated with wireless nodes that have rebroadcasted a message and the MSN of the message.

The neighbor table contains a list of the neighboring wireless nodes and an estimate of their relative radio distance see Table 3 . It is contemplated that the observed signal strength together with the known transmitting power of a neighboring wireless node is an indicator of the proximity of the wireless node and can be used to calculate the relative radio distance. The relative radio distance of the node from which the message was last received is then used as a criterion for whether or not the wireless node retransmits a received message. For instance a higher signal strength indicates closer proximity to the wireless node . The network control module monitors the signal strengths of neighboring nodes as the module receives messages from nearby devices and uses it to estimate the relative radio distance e.g. proximity of the transmitting node . It is also contemplated that the network control module may use any other mechanism for estimating the relative radio distance of neighboring nodes e.g. estimating location using global positioning satellite receivers or other positioning techniques .

In certain embodiments the network control module uses the proximity information to direct the routing and transmission of messages over the ad hoc mesh network . For example the system can reduce the potential for overloading the ad hoc mesh network by implementing a smart flooding scheme whereby only a few nodes retransmit a flooding message. Whether a node retransmits a flooding message can be dependent on the relative distance group e.g. very near near or far to which the node that is the transmitter of the message belongs. More specifically if the transmitting node is in the far or near group the receiving node can retransmit the flooding message. If the transmitting node is in the very near group the receiving node does not retransmit the flooding message. For each broadcast message received from a node in either the far or near group the network control module assigns a random delay time for relaying or rebroadcasting. The delay period for instance exhibits a distribution function based on the estimated relative radio distance as a way to randomize the delay period before transmission. The distribution should be chosen in such a way that the random delay is larger for those nodes that are near than for those that are far. This favors for instance nodes that are further away to relay the flooding message forward which results in better flooding efficiency smaller total number of transmissions . The use of a random delay time also prevents the unintended synchronization of message broadcasts as the message propagates over the ad hoc mesh network . For example unintended synchronization of the message broadcasts may result in too many nodes sending broadcasting i.e. flooding messages over the ad hoc mesh network at exactly the same time. Additionally the delay time provides an opportunity for the network control module to monitor and count rebroadcasts of the message by other neighboring wireless nodes .

The MID table contains a list of received messages. As the wireless node receives messages from neighboring nodes over the ad hoc mesh network the network control module uses the MID table to check whether the message has been received previously by for example comparing the MIDs in the MID table to that of the received message. The MID table also contains a flag indicating whether a message has been transmitted by the node and the time when the entry was last updated. In exemplary embodiments the MID is the tuple SRC MSN where SRC is the NID of the source node and MSN is a message sequence number assigned by the source node. In this way the MID is a unique identifier of each message that propagates in the network . The network control module makes an entry in the MID table for all new messages that it receives. If the message has been scheduled for transmission the module increments the message counter in the message table see Table 4 .

The message table contains messages that the network control module has scheduled to transmit. For example as the node receives a flooding message that the network control module schedules for transmission the module updates the message table to include the message in the message table . Each entry in the message table contains the message itself the time when the message is scheduled to be sent and the number of receptions of the same message by the node see Table 4 . In exemplary embodiments a message is not relayed over the ad hoc mesh network if the number of times the message has been received exceeds a predefined limit. For example a message has the initial count of 0. In this example as a wireless node in the neighborhood is observed to transmit the message the message count associated with the message is increased. When the maximum message count is reached the network control module removes the message from the message table . The transmitter of each message is also associated with an estimated relative radio distance D indicating whether the transmitting node is within close proximity of the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the very near relative radio distance group or far from the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the far relative radio distance group . If the relative radio distance associated with the transmitting node indicates that the transmission of the message occurred very near the wireless node would not have to relay the message because it is assumed for instance that most of the other neighboring wireless nodes have already received the same message. By taking into account the relative radio distances of neighboring nodes the described smart flooding functionality leads to on average each flooding message being received for a few times by each node independent of the node density. The number of times a message is received by any one node affects the scalability of the network .

If the received message however is a unicast reply message that was addressed to the receiving node the network control module checks whether the destination node can be found in the routing table e.g. can be found from the destination field in the reply message or obtained from the source field of the query by the replying node . If found the routing table entry will give the NID of the neighboring node to which the reply message will be sent in the next opportunity. If the unicast transmission is not successful the next entry for the same DST will be used as the next try. If the received message is a unicast reply message that was not addressed to the receiving node and no acknowledgment from the intended receiver node was heard the node will store the message in the message table for scheduled retransmission. It is noted that unicast messages or acknowledgement messages that are not addressed to the node are normally received D2D radio layer see discussion of the D2D radio layer below but not by the awareness services module . However under certain circumstances the D2D radio layer can provide such messages to the awareness services module to schedule for retransmission. For example if no successful unicast of the same message is observed by the time when the message is scheduled to be transmitted the node will transmit the unicast or acknowledgement message to the intended recipient found from the routing table associated with the message. In this way the nodes that are not the intended recipients of the reply messages can assist in routing the message forward towards the correct destination.

As shown in the awareness services module has connectivity to a device to device D2D radio layer . The D2D radio layer enables the formation of the ad hoc mesh network and sharing of awareness information using for instance short range radio technologies such WLAN and Bluetooth . It is contemplated that the D2D radio layer may use any wireless technology for communication between devices over short ranges. The radio technology for instance enables each wireless node within the ad hoc mesh network to broadcast messages in a connectionless way to the neighboring nodes that are within radio range. As used herein the term connectionless means the wireless nodes need not use two way signaling to establish a communication channel before broadcasting a message. In exemplary embodiments the D2D radio layer may include multiple radios using one or more different technologies or protocols e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth simultaneously . A wireless node configured with multiple radios may act as a gateway node to span two or more sub networks serviced by the different wireless technologies. In this way messages broadcast on one sub network may be propagated to another sub network.

In exemplary embodiments the low latency requirements also enable saving power in the host processor e.g. as depicted in . For illustration the following description refers to the components of exemplary chip set of . The D2D radio layer is typically implemented in the ASIC module whereas the functionalities of the awareness services module can be implemented either in the ASIC or the processor . If the functionalities of the awareness services module are implemented in the processor power consumption is reduced by for instance having ASIC wake up the processor as infrequently as possible. By way of example the periodic operation of the D2D radio layer explained above enables the ASIC to collect all messages and send them to the processor at a frequency of once per active transmission period . The processor then processes all received messages and calculates new messages to be sent for the next active transmission period . The processor then sends the messages to the ASIC for transmission. Using this process a flooding message can make one hop e.g. travel from one node to another node per period which is fully acceptable for awareness information. In contrast potential delays of hundreds of milliseconds are not possible for example for voice traffic and these kinds of power savings cannot therefore be achieved in other communication systems transporting delay sensitive traffic.

After generating the body of the message the awareness services module e.g. the community layer and the network layer prepares the message by adding the headers e.g. network layer header to direct the routing of the message as discussed previously with respect to step . For example the header may specify a maximum message count e.g. hop count a geographical limit for the flooding message a temporal limit or other context limit. Preparing the message for broadcast also includes for instance assigning a message sequence number MSN to the flooding message and specifying a source NID destination NID and or transmitter NID. The awareness services module initiates broadcast of the flooding message by adding an entry for the generated flooding message in the MID table with the sent flag set to not sent and forwarding the message to the D2D radio layer for broadcast over the ad hoc mesh network step . After broadcasting the awareness services module may determine whether the flooding message should be rebroadcasted over the ad hoc mesh network step . For example the application may direct the awareness services module to rebroadcast the flooding message based by monitoring and counting the number times the originating node is able to observe rebroadcasts of the flooding message by neighboring nodes . The observed rebroadcasts for instance serve as an acknowledgement that the neighboring node that is retransmitting the flooding message has successfully received the flooding message. In one embodiment the awareness services module determines whether the observed rebroadcasts is of the same flooding message by comparing the MID of the observed message and the original flooding message step . If after a predetermined period of time no rebroadcasts are observed the awareness services module can rebroadcast the flooding message e.g. by returning to step and repeating as necessary . It is contemplated that the application or the awareness services module can define the number of rebroadcasts to attempt. After reaching the rebroadcast limit the awareness services module notifies the application of the rebroadcasting status and suspends additional rebroadcasts step .

In addition the information within the flooding message is shared anonymously e.g. shared without identifying the sender of the information unless directed otherwise. By way of example the awareness services module may use any mechanism to share the information anonymously including changing a link layer or network layer identification preventing transmission of intimate information when the number of neighboring nodes is small anonymizing information that can be used to identify a user or community or a combination thereof. For example by periodically changing a link layer or network layer identification associated with a transmitting wireless node the awareness services module makes it more difficult for an outside observer to determine the identity of the wireless node or its user. The anonymous sharing of information is further protected by preventing the transmission of intimate information with the number of neighboring nodes is small. This reduces the possibility that an outside observer may infer the owner of the intimate information by observing the small community of wireless nodes . As another mechanism the awareness services module can anonymize any identifying information in the flooding message using the process described with respect to the encryption decryption module of the community layer e.g. anonymizing the CID .

On receipt of the flooding message the awareness services module updates the routing table associated with the message and the MID table step . As discussed with respect to for each observed source node NID the routing table contains listing of all neighboring nodes that the awareness services module has observed to retransmit the same flooding message messages with equal MID . For example the network control module stores the NID of the node from which the message was received as the next entry of the list. This way the routing table contains redundant next hop information from the current receiving node towards the source node. If the received flooding message contains a MSN that is larger than that found in the routing table the listing of the next hop neighbors is deleted from the routing table for this destination and the transmitting node is set as the first entry in the next hop list. In exemplary embodiments the dynamic updating of the routing table based on the flooding messages enables the awareness services module to dynamically create reply routes among wireless nodes within the ad hoc mesh network .

To update the MID table the awareness services module checks whether there is already an entry for the received message. If there is not the awareness services module adds a new entry for the received flooding message including the time of reception. If there is an existing entry the awareness services module updates the time of reception. The time of reception is used for instance to remove older entries from the MID table.

To update the message table the awareness services module first checks based on the MID if the received message already exists in the message table. Existence of the message would mean that the message has been received earlier and is already scheduled for retransmission by the module . If the message already exists in the message table the message counter in the message table is also incremented.

The neighbor table contains a list of the neighboring wireless nodes and an estimate of their relative radio distance. In exemplary embodiments the awareness services module initiates determination of the relative radio distance of neighboring wireless nodes step . In one embodiment the relative radio distance is estimated by measuring the transmitting power e.g. a receiver carrier power indication RCPI level of received messages to determine the relative radio distance of neighboring wireless nodes . The awareness services module then classifies the neighboring nodes according to their respective relative radio distance or other predefined criteria step . For example based on the RCPI and optionally the observed RCPI history of the neighboring nodes the nodes are ordered by increasing RCPI value. The nodes are then divided into for instance one or more distance categories e.g. three categories the nodes with the highest RCPI or RCPI history values are assigned a relative radio distance of very near the nodes with lowest RCPI or RCPI history values are assigned a relative radio distance of far and the remaining nodes are assigned a relative radio distance of near . The sizes of these three populations are adaptively set by the awareness services module by modifying the RCPI thresholds used for relative distance classification. If the number of neighboring nodes is small the thresholds should be set in such a way that all the nodes will fall in the near category.

It is contemplated that the observed signal strength together with the known transmitting power of a neighboring wireless node is an indicator of the proximity of the wireless node and can be used to calculate the relative radio distance. The relative radio distance of the node from which the message was last received is then used as a criterion for whether or not the wireless node retransmits a received flooding message. For instance a higher signal strength indicates closer proximity to the wireless node . The awareness services module monitors the signal strengths of neighboring nodes as it receives messages from nearby devices and uses it to estimate the relative radio distance proximity . It is also contemplated that the awareness services module may use any other mechanism for estimating the relative radio distance of neighboring nodes e.g. estimating location using global positioning satellite receivers or other positioning techniques .

For example an entry for a neighboring node is maintained in the neighbor table if within a predetermined time window T the neighboring node has transmitted a message or a beacon signal. In certain embodiments the time window T is dependent on how quickly the neighboring nodes are moving or changing. For example if the set of neighboring nodes is changing rapidly the time window T is shorter if the set of neighboring nodes is stable the time window T is longer. It is contemplated that the time window may be dynamically adjusted based on the stability of the set of neighboring nodes .

In one embodiment if the received flooding message is from a neighboring wireless node that is classified in the very near distance category step the awareness services module cancels retransmission of the flooding message or does not initiate retransmission of the flooding message step . Under this circumstance the awareness services module assumes that because the flooding message was received from a very near neighboring wireless node the other neighboring wireless nodes most likely have also received the flooding message. Therefore retransmission of the flooding message to immediate neighboring nodes is likely not needed. In this way the awareness services module reduces unnecessary retransmissions over the ad hoc mesh network .

If the neighboring node from which the flooding message was received is not in the very near distance category the awareness services module determines whether to retransmit the flooding message based on other predefined retransmission criteria step . As part of this determination the awareness services module for instance classifies the neighboring wireless nodes into one or more groups based on the criteria. Classification in a particular group may then be used to determine whether that group for instance will receive retransmission of the flooding message. The retransmission criteria include for instance a message hop limit geographical limit temporal limit context limit or a combination thereof. It is contemplated that the awareness services module may use any other limitation or context as retransmission criteria. In exemplary embodiments the retransmission criteria reduce the potential for unnecessarily rebroadcasting a flooding message thereby minimizing data traffic over the ad hoc mesh network . For example the awareness services module applies the message count limit by checking the hop count field in the received message which indicates the number of hops the flooding message has traveled over the ad hoc mesh network . Once the message count reaches a predefined limit the flooding message is dropped and no longer retransmitted. Such a limit prevents messages from travelling without limit. In certain embodiments the message count limit can override any other limits that the originator of the message may have set.

Similarly the awareness services module can limit the geographical dispersion of the flooding message by for instance comparing the location of the wireless node to the geographical limit of the flooding message. This location information may be obtained as awareness information shared by neighboring wireless nodes or directly obtained from a positioning module or other positioning service accessible by the wireless node .

With respect to a retransmission criterion based on a temporal limit the awareness services module rebroadcasts the flooding message only during the effective time period of the message. For example a flooding message includes information concerning a concert and is effective only for the duration of the concert. By way of example the awareness services module accesses a clock service e.g. resident on the wireless node or external to the wireless node to determine the time and does not retransmit the flooding message if the time is outside the effective time period specified by the temporal limit of the flooding message.

With respect to a retransmission criterion based on a context limit the awareness services module rebroadcasts the flooding message only if the context limit in the received message matches with that of the receiving node. Such a context e.g. location in Bradbury Mall may be calculated based on the awareness information received from other mobile nodes or from nodes installed at fixed locations. For example a flooding message including an advertisement for a store may have its distribution limited to only those wireless nodes that are located within the mall in which the store is located.

Based on application of the retransmission criteria the awareness services module makes a determination of whether to retransmit the flooding message. If the determination is to retransmit the awareness services module updates the message table to add the received flooding message to the transmission queue and initiates rebroadcast of the flooding message by for instance assigning a retransmission time range to each distance category step . The retransmission range for the near group for instance can be calculated based on the number of wireless nodes classified or included in the near group. Similarly the retransmission range for far group can be calculated based on the number of wireless nodes classified or included in the far group. It is contemplated that the retransmission range can be independently calculated for each defined group. By way of example the retransmission time range specifies a time period during which the flooding message will be retransmitted to the neighboring wireless nodes within a specific distance category. More specifically the awareness services module schedules the retransmission of the flooding message according to assigned retransmission time range for each neighboring wireless node step . In this way the awareness services module can delay or stagger the retransmission of the flooding message to neighboring wireless nodes based on for instance their relative radio distances. The delay or stagger reduces the potential to saturate the traffic capacity of the ad hoc mesh network . In addition the awareness services module may also determine whether to continue retransmission of a flooding message based on the distance category of the neighboring wireless node from which the flooding message was received. For example the awareness services module may cancel retransmission of the flooding message if the transmitting neighboring wireless node is in the very near category. For example because the transmitting wireless node is in the very near category it is assumed that other neighboring wireless nodes are also likely to have already received the flooding message. Therefore retransmission is likely to be unnecessary. If the transmitting node is in the far category the awareness services module will schedule the flooding message for retransmission because it is less likely that other neighboring nodes have already received the flooding message.

Additionally the rebroadcast of the flooding message may be delayed or conditional. For example after a predefined time e.g. determined by the assigned retransmission time range from the transmission of a previous flooding message by the same node has elapsed the message is sent to D2D radio layer to be broadcasted and an entry for the new message is made in the MID table with the sent flag set to sent . This predefined time may be a dynamically adjustable parameter within the assigned retransmission time range that depends on the traffic situation in the mesh network . The higher is the traffic level and the utilization of the radio channel the higher is the average power consumption in the nodes of network and the longer should the predefined time interval between the broadcasts be. Normally it is the awareness services module that sets the time interval. However it is contemplated that in some situations such traffic control means in the module could be disabled deliberately. In some embodiments the neighboring peer nodes do not carry forward flooding messages originating from a node neglecting such restrictions.

In certain embodiments upon rebroadcast the MID table is updated by setting the sent flag to sent . In exemplary embodiments the delay period is a random amount of time within the assigned retransmission time range e.g. T T with the distribution of this time depending on the relative radio distance of the node that transmitted the flooding message. If the relative radio distance associated with a message is near the message is written into the message table with the time to send set for example to a random value in the range T . . . T T . If the relative radio distance associated with a message is far then the message is written into the message table with the time to send set to a random value in the range 0 . . . T . This favors nodes that are further away to relay the flooding message forward which results in better flooding efficiency smaller total number of transmissions . The use of a random delay time also prevents the unintended synchronization of message broadcasts as the message propagates over the ad hoc mesh network . For instance unintended synchronization of the message broadcasts may result in too many nodes sending broadcasting i.e. flooding messages over the ad hoc mesh network at exactly the same time. The lengths of these two retransmission time ranges T and T are set based on the number of entries in the neighbor table the higher the number of entries the larger are T and T. If the number of nodes in the neighbor table is so small that all neighbors have been assigned a relative radio distance near T and T are set to zero. This way at low node densities all the nodes will rebroadcast all messages without delay in order to minimize the probability of flooding failure.

During the delay period for a given message the possible new receptions of this same message with equal MID are recorded by incrementing the message counter in the message table . If the number of receptions exceeds a predefined limit e.g. a typical value of between one and three the message is dropped from the message table and the scheduled transmission will not occur. Also if the node from which the flooding message was received is very near the message is also deleted from the message table . The logic for this is that in such a situation most of the neighboring nodes already have received this message. This is also the reason why at low node densities small number of neighbors in the neighbor table there most likely are no nodes in the very near category and therefore each flooding message is immediately retransmitted. In summary the process leads to on average each flooding message being received for a few times by each node independent of the node density. The number of times a message is received by any one node affects the scalability of the network .

It is contemplated that unicast messages are normally used for replies to save network resources and reduce power consumption in the ad hoc mesh network . In some embodiments a flooding message can be used for a reply if requested by a flag in the query message. A replay via a flooding message can be appropriate for instance when the reply is likely to be of interest in a larger number of nodes within the ad hoc mesh network . Another case for using a flooding message for a reply might occur if there is a considerable time gap between the query and the reply. In this case the routing information generated by the flooding query in the mesh network might have become obsolete.

Next the awareness services module determines whether it has previously transmitted the reply message step . The awareness services module may for instance perform this check by examining the sent flag associated with the MID table entry corresponding to the reply message. If the sent flag indicates that the awareness services module has previously transmitted the reply no further action is taken. If the sent flag indicates that the reply message has not previously been sent the awareness services module examines whether the intended recipient of the message is in the neighbor table step . In one embodiment visible neighboring nodes are entered into the neighbor table . For example a node is placed in the neighbor table if a message or beacon signal is received from that node within a predetermined period of time. If yes the awareness services module initiates a collaborative reply process to initiate retransmission of the received unicast reply message to the intended recipient node e.g. a source node . By way of example the awareness services module consults the routing table to determine whether there is an available route towards the source node. If there is a route e.g. either directly to the source node or through another relaying node the awareness services module retransmits the unicast message in the next transmission opportunity and updates the sent flag of the corresponding MID table entry to indicate that it has retransmitted a unicast message with the given MID step . In some embodiments if no acknowledgment is received from the addressed recipient and another entry for the same destination node is found in the routing table a new transmission of the same message is made towards the neighboring node indicated in that entry. This process may be repeated for a number of times or until the transmitter NID list Table 1 in the routing table is exhausted.

If the intended recipient node is not in the neighbor table the awareness services module uses the collaborative reply process to listen for an acknowledgement of receipt of the reply message by the intended recipient node . If an acknowledgement is observed the awareness services module ends the collaborative reply process. If no acknowledgment from the intended recipient node is observed the awareness services module determines the relative radio distances of the neighboring node that transmitted the reply message the intended recipient node . If the relative radio distance of the intended recipient node is set as far in the neighbor table the collaborative reply process is cancelled. Also if the node that transmitted the message is very near the collaborative reply process is cancelled. In this way the awareness services module avoids unnecessarily retransmitting the reply message thereby reducing bandwidth and power requirements for the collaborative reply process. Otherwise the awareness services module initiates a delayed retransmission of the unicast message by writing the message in the message table . If the relative radio distance of the addressed recipient is near the message is written into the message table with the time to send set for example to a random value in the range T . . . T T . If the relative radio distance of the addressed recipient is very near then the message is written into the message table with the time to send set to a random value in the range 0 . . . T . The use of a random delay prevents excessive multiplication of the unicast messages. The lengths of these two time ranges T and T are set based on the number of entries in the neighbor table the higher the number of entries the larger are T and T. If the number of nodes in the neighbor table is so small that all neighbors have been assigned a relative radio distance near T and T are set to zero. This way at low node densities all the nodes will retransmit all messages without delay in order to minimize the probability of routing failure. This may lead to multiplication of messages but the redundant messages will typically die as they propagate further they are not forwarded because they are recorded in the MID tables of the nodes though which they have passed.

During the delay period for a given message observations of any successful receptions of this same message with equal MID by other nodes are monitored. Observation of a successful reception by another node means that both the message and a reception acknowledgment by the addressed node are received. Upon such an observation the scheduled transmission of this message is for instance cancelled and the message is removed from the message table .

If the delayed retransmission the same message is not cancelled by the time when the message is scheduled to be transmitted the node will transmit it to the correct receiver found from the routing table . In this way the nodes that are not the intended recipients of the reply messages can assist in routing the message forward towards the correct destination.

In step the application within querying node generates a request for searching information over the ad hoc mesh network and sends the request to the cognition layer of the querying node . The cognition layer generates a query message assigns a query identification number QID to the query message and forwards the query message to the community layer of the querying node step .

The community layer prepares the query message for transmission over the ad hoc mesh network by marking the query with a CID of the community from which the user is seeking information. If the community is private the community layer encrypts the query message using the authentication keys associated with the respective CID and stored in the community directory . The community layer then anonymizes the CID attached to the query using the authentication keys associated with the respective CID and sends the anonymized and possibly encrypted messaged to the network layer step .

The network layer assigns a message sequence number MID to the query message and adds fields to the network layer message header to indicate that the querying node is the source and transmitter of the query message e.g. using the NID . The network layer sends the query message to the D2D radio layer of the querying node for broadcasting to the ad hoc mesh network step .

The query message is then broadcasted to one or more relaying nodes step . All the nodes that are able to receive the broadcast message are relaying nodes. The processes of the relaying node are described with respect to . After processing by the relaying node the query message is rebroadcasted to another relaying node or to the replying node step . The processes of the replying node are described with respect to . After processing of the query message by the replying node a reply message is generated and sent to the relaying node step which routes the reply message either to another relaying node or to the querying node step based on the route stored in the routing table .

At the querying node the D2D radio layer receives and acknowledges the reply message and forwards the reply message to the network layer step . The network layer determines that the querying node is the intended destination of the reply message by checking the DST field in the network layer message header and sends the message to the community layer for processing step . In case of a private community the community layer decrypts the reply message using the appropriate authentication keys stored in the community directory . Then the community layer sends the decrypted reply message to the cognition layer step . The cognition layer then provides the application with a service response using the content of the reply message and the QID contained in the reply message step .

In step the D2D radio layer of the relaying node receives a query message either from the querying node or from another relaying node and sends the message to the network layer . The network layer performs the steps to to determine whether to rebroadcast the query message. If the network layer decides to rebroadcast the query it sends the query message back to the D2D radio layer for transmission step .

The network layer also forwards the query message to the community layer step . If the community layer determines that the query message contains the anonymized CID of an active community associated with the relaying node based on the information stored in the community directory the community layer decrypts the message and forwards it to the cognition layer . In this example the relaying node does not have any matching information in the item storage and serves only to relay the query message.

In another example in step the D2D radio layer of the relaying node receives a reply message either from the replying node or from another relaying node and sends the message to the network layer . The network layer performs the steps to to determine whether to retransmit the reply message. If the network layer decides to retransmit the reply it sends the reply message back to the D2D radio layer for transmission step .

The network layer also forwards the reply message to the community layer step . If the community layer determines that the reply message contains the anonymized CID of an active community associated with the relaying node based on the information stored in the community directory the community layer decrypts the message and forwards it to the cognition layer that may store the information in the reply message in its item storage .

In step the D2D radio layer of the replying node receives the query message and forwards it to the network layer of the replying node according to the same process as described with respect the relaying node of . The network layer may decide to rebroadcast the query message step . On receipt the network layer forwards the query message to the community layer step .

If the community layer determines that the query message contains an anonymized CID of an active community associated with the replying node the community layer decrypts the message if private and forwards the query message to the cognition layer step . If an item matching to the query is found in the item storage of the replying node the cognition layer generates a reply message that contains the same QID as the incoming query and has the source NID of the query message set as the destination NID of the reply message. Next the cognition layer forwards the message to the community layer step . If the community to which the reply message relates to is a private community the reply message is encrypted using the keys associated with the community. The community layer then anonymizes the community identifier CID and sends the reply message to the network layer step .

On receipt of the reply message the network layer assigns a new message sequence number MSN to the reply message attaches NID of the replying node as the source and transmitter finds the NID of the relaying node for the next hop from the routing table sets the target NID of the reply message as the next hop and sends the reply message to the D2D radio layer step . The D2D radio layer sends the reply message as a unicast message addressed to a relaying node over the ad hoc mesh network .

The processes described herein for providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information related to providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network . Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In exemplary embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network .

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide awareness information over an ad hoc mesh network . The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile station speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In the exemplary embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile station are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile station . The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the station. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile station .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile station on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile station settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

