---

title: Traffic bottleneck detection and classification on a transportation network graph
abstract: Traffic congestion detection, classification and identification includes analysis of link-speed data representative of vehicular speed and capacity on one or more roadway segments to determine non-linear, multi-segment traffic bottlenecks in a transportation network graph. Link-speed data is processed to detect bottleneck conditions, classify bottlenecks and bottleneck-like traffic features according to their complexity, and identify sustained or recurring bottlenecks. Such a system and method of traffic congestion detection, classification and identification provides a framework for using this link-speed data to detect the head and queue of bottlenecks on a directed graph representing the transportation network, classify the resulting bottlenecks and bottleneck-like traffic features according to the shape of their queue, and identify and measure sustained or recurrent bottlenecks even when the location, or head, of the bottleneck varies slightly across multiple time periods or across multiple days.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330565&OS=09330565&RS=09330565
owner: ITERIS, INC.
number: 09330565
owner_city: Santa Ana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140918
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. provisional application 61 879 165 filed on Sep. 18 2013 the contents of which are incorporated in their entirety herein.

The present invention relates to traffic congestion detection and analysis. Specifically the present invention relates to a system and method of detecting bottlenecks on a roadway network and classification of bottlenecks and bottleneck like traffic features according to their complexity.

Bottlenecks in traffic congestion are locations on a roadway where there is a temporary or permanent drop in capacity defined as the maximum number of vehicle throughput per second compared to immediately adjacent downstream locations on the same roadway. Such circumstances can lead to traffic congestion and the formation of a queue of slow or stopped vehicles behind or upstream of the bottleneck. The detection and removal of bottlenecks is often a priority for organizations responsible for managing roadway networks such as state departments of transportation or private entities operating toll roads. These organizations have an interest in knowing where a bottleneck is how long the queue of vehicles behind it is its duration on a given day or period of interest and how often it recurs such as daily occasionally rarely .

A bottleneck head often referred to as the bottleneck location or just bottleneck is the point downstream of which roadway capacity increases and traffic again flows freely. The bottleneck head is therefore the point furthest along the roadway for which capacity is reduced. A bottleneck queue is the set of points on the roadway upstream of the bottleneck head in which traffic is moving slowly or stopped due to the reduced capacity at the bottleneck. The bottleneck head can therefore also be thought of as simply the most downstream point in the bottleneck queue.

A sustained bottleneck is one that persists for more than one time period of interest such as 5 minutes . For example a bottleneck may persist for several time periods adding up to a total of 45 minutes. A recurrent bottleneck is a bottleneck that is detected at an identical or similar place and possibly time over multiple days.

There are several established prior art methods of analyzing bottlenecks in traffic congestion. One well known property of a bottleneck is a sudden increase in the speed of traffic as vehicles move downstream of i.e. beyond the front or head of the bottleneck. Existing techniques have used this property to detect bottlenecks from data generated from a linear sequence of detectors such as inductive loop detectors placed every mile or so along a stretch of freeway . In one example the bottleneck head may be defined as a point where the detected speed of downstream traffic is at least 20 mph faster than the detected speed of upstream traffic. The bottleneck queue is defined as all points immediately upstream of the bottleneck head for which the detected speed is less than 40 mph. This method however only applies to data on a linear sequence of points such as inductive loop detector locations typically corresponding to a single named roadway. There is no existing methodology for analyzing data to detect bottlenecks in a non linear sequence of data points and no existing methodology for analyzing complex bottlenecks comprised of more than one single named roadway.

The above mentioned technique also attempts to examine recurring bottlenecks on the same or different days. For example when for 5 out of 7 consecutive time periods a bottleneck is detected with a head at location X then the bottleneck is sustained . When a sustained bottleneck occurs on two different days it is recurrent . This existing methodology checks for bottlenecks that are sustained or recurrent at exactly the same location during each time period or day. It does not however detect bottleneck head locations that vary across multiple time periods during the same day e.g. 5 minute time periods or across multiple days.

The present invention discloses a system and method of detecting traffic bottlenecks on a roadway network. Traffic congestion due to bottlenecks often aggravates and or influences traffic conditions on a section of the roadway network that are not limited to a single roadway segment or linear sequence of links. In this embodiment of the present invention a roadway network is a directed graph of one way links for which GIS data about the roadway network is available in directed graph or link node form for example for purchase from third party vendors. Data representative of link speed on such a directed graph representing a roadway network is used to detect bottlenecks and generalized bottleneck like recurring traffic features even where data for certain roadway links is incomplete. The link speed data supplies estimates of the average traffic speed on all or most of the road links at regular intervals such as for example every 5 minutes. Additional embodiment of the present invention further comprise classifying bottlenecks and bottleneck like traffic features according to the shape of their queue and identifying sustained or recurring bottlenecks even when the location or head of the bottleneck varies slightly across multiple time periods e.g. 5 minute time periods or across multiple days.

In light of the limitations among the prior art techniques it is therefore one objective of the present invention to provide a system and method of detecting bottlenecks on a roadway network that is not linear or limited to a single named road. It is another objective to provide a system and method of detecting the head and queue of bottlenecks on a road network comprised of a directed graph of roadway links given access to speed data on all or most of the links for each of several time periods. It is yet another objective of the present invention to provide a system and method of classifying bottlenecks and bottleneck like traffic features according to their complexity. It is a further objective of the present invention to provide a system and method of identifying sustained or recurring bottlenecks even if the bottleneck head location varies slightly from day to day or during a single day.

Other embodiments features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the many embodiments which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

In the following description of the present invention reference is made to the exemplary embodiments illustrating the principles of the present invention and how it is practiced. Other embodiments will be utilized to practice the present invention and structural and functional changes will be made thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As noted above the present invention discloses a system and method of detecting traffic bottlenecks on a roadway network by analyzing speed data for roadway links or segments for specified time periods. This link speed data is used to detect the head and queue of bottlenecks on the roadway network represented as a directed graph of the links comprising the roadway network to be analyzed. is an illustration of such a directed graph of links in an exemplary roadway network where link speed data is analyzed to detect the head and queue of bottlenecks .

The link speed data provides vehicular speed information relative to different parts of the roadway network for each time period e.g. 5 minutes to be analyzed. This link speed data as noted further herein may be provided in a processed form by third party vendors or may be provided in raw form from many different sources and subsequently modeled using a variety of different data processing paradigms to extract speed information for the particular link it represents.

Regardless of whether it is provided in processed or raw form link speed data according to the present invention may be derived from multiple types of input data reflecting or representing traffic conditions on a particular section of roadway . These multiple categories of input data may include geographical information system GIS data of spatio temporal location of traffic relative to a roadway network and generated by any device typically used to collect such information such as for example global positioning GPS devices. Input data may also include general traffic data collected from one or more sensors or third parties weather data incident data pavement condition data roadway operations data and data generated by one or more integrated traffic state estimation systems which incorporate at least some these categories of data to model vehicular speed on a transportation infrastructure network.

Within each of these categories input data may be historical representative of real time conditions over a specific time period or predictive of a future traffic state. Regardless as noted above input data and link speed data may be ingested and derived from a plurality of different sources and devices. For example in the case of roadway operations data information may be collected by on vehicle devices such as GPS systems AVL MDCs mobile applications resident on mobile devices such as smart phones or tablets etc. Input data may also be ingested from sensors cameras third party data collection services probes loops radar and many other sources. Input data may be further ingested from one or more techniques for collecting crowd sourced observations of real time traffic conditions. It is therefore to be understood that multiple systems and methods of generating information relating to vehicular speed on a roadway network may be utilized and are within the scope of the present invention.

Regardless of the type and source of data being utilized for link speed data for processing in the present invention however it is also to be noted that the link speed data contemplated as input data in the present invention may not use the same subdivisions of the roadway hereinafter traffic data links not shown as the subdivisions used in the directed graph of one way roadway links hereinafter road network links also not shown that are used for bottleneck detection classification and identification according to the framework of the present invention. In order to overcome this potential discrepancy in relative coverage the present invention projects data regarding traffic data links onto the road network links . Where there are multiple road network links contained in a single traffic data link the present invention assigns the speed reported for the traffic data link to all the multiple road network links . Where a single road network link covers multiple traffic data links the present invention averages the speed values reported for the various road traffic links either by a simple average of the speed values or by a weighted average in proportion to the amount linear miles of overlapping roadway between each traffic data link and the road network link .

Additionally the projected link speed data may not cover the entire directed graph of a roadway network during some or all time periods to be analyzed. In other words at some time periods there may be some road network links for which there is no reported speed. For example there may be no reported speeds for small connecting roads such as freeway on ramps or off ramps.

To overcome the possibility of missing link speed data the present invention defines links for which there is no reported speed in a given time period as null links while links that do have reported speeds are defined as non null links . For each node on the directed graph of the roadway network the present invention defines a set of nearby upstream links . The set of nearby upstream links for each node includes all immediately connected non null upstream nodes within the directed graph of the roadway network . The set of nearby upstream links for a node may also include any non null links that can be connected to the node by an unbroken sequence of null road links links with no reported speed such that the total roadway length of the null links is less than a specified numeric identifier D. For example D may be specified as 0.6 miles.

As noted above is a directed graph of an exemplary roadway network showing null links and non null links and where nearby upstream links for different nodes are defined.

In the example of relative to the node identified as N1 and assuming D 0.6 miles Link 9 is downstream of node N1 Link 2 is directly upstream of node N1 and the set of nearby upstream links for node N1 is the set Link 2 Link 3 and Link 7. Link 6 Link 8 and Link 11 are non null links that are not nearby upstream to node N1 and Link 1 Link 4 Link 5 and Link 10 are null links that are therefore also not nearby upstream to node N1.

Specifically Link 2 is nearby upstream because it is directly upstream i.e. connected to node N1. Link 3 is nearby upstream because it is a non null link connected to node N1 by an unbroken sequence of null links namely the sequence Link 1 whose total length 0.4 miles satisfies 0.4

In addition to being defined for a roadway node nearby upstream is also defined in terms of a link as follows. For a one way directed graph link L that connects a Node A to a Node B the present invention defines the set of nearby upstream links of Link L as the set of nearby upstream links of Node A.

These understandings of the term nearby upstream are all useful for the following process of detecting a bottleneck head as they apply whenever the set of links in the roadway network that are upstream of a node or link is considered. In the bottleneck detection classification and identification framework according to the present invention at each node in the link node roadway network a bottleneck head condition is detected where a reported speed on at least one nearby upstream link is less than a speed X and the reported speed on all downstream outgoing links are greater than a speed Y plus the minimum reported speed of all nearby upstream links . In this analysis speed X is the congestion threshold speed and speed Y is the bottleneck speed differential .

For example for roadways with a 65 mph speed limit the speed might be X 40 mph and the speed differential might be Y 20 mph. This process is demonstrated in which illustrate the following examples. Values for X and Y are selected by according to one possible embodiment scaling them proportionally to the speed limit or observed free flow speed of each given road link as discussed in further detail below.

In assume as noted above X 40 mph Y 20 mph. If Link 1 is 35 mph and Link 2 is 65 mph then a bottleneck is detected at Node 1 because 35Y. Conversely if Link 1 is 45 mph and Link 2 is 70 mph a bottleneck is not detected at Node 1 because while 70 45 Y the other condition 45

In above if Link 6 is 35 mph and Link 8 is 65 mph and Link 7 is 70 mph then a bottleneck is detected at Node 3 because 35 mphY and 70 35 Y. Conversely if Link 6 is 35 mph and Link 8 is 50 mph and Link 7 is 65 mph a bottleneck is not detected at Node 3 because while 35Y the remaining condition 50 35 Y is not satisfied.

In above if Link 4 is 35 mph and Link 3 is 50 mph and Link 5 is 60 mph then a bottleneck is detected at Node 2 because at least one of the nearby upstream links Link 4 Link 3 satisfy the bottleneck head conditions identified above namely Link 4 because 35Y. However if Link 4 is 20 mph and Link 3 is 25 mph and Link 5 is 35 mph a bottleneck is not detected because while at least one of the nearby upstream links Link 4 Link 3 satisfies the first bottleneck head condition e.g. Link 4 for which 25Y for Link 4 nor 25 20 Y for Link 3 is satisfied.

In above if Link 10 is 30 mph and Link 9 is 65 mph and Link 12 is 55 mph and Link 11 is 60 mph then a bottleneck is detected at Node 4 because both bottleneck head conditions are satisfied by at least one of the nearby upstream links Link 10 Link 9 namely Link 10 because 30Y and 60 30 Y. However if Link 10 is 30 mph and Link 9 is 65 mph and Link 12 is 55 mph and Link 11 is 45 mph a bottleneck is not detected because neither nearby upstream link satisfies the two bottleneck head conditions because while Link 10 satisfies the first bottleneck head condition it does not satisfy the second bottleneck head condition is not since while 55 30 Y for Link 12 the condition 45 30 Y for Link 11 is not met.

In the directed graphs depicted for each of the examples above any of the directly upstream links Links 1 6 4 3 10 and 9 may be replaced by a nearby upstream link with one or more connecting null links as defined above with exactly the same results as described for each of these .

The link specific parameter values X and Y reference numerals and for the analysis of the bottleneck head conditions 1 and 2 as discussed above are chosen depending on certain properties of each roadway being analyzed. As noted above one optimal method of assigning these parameter values and is to utilize roadway properties such as the typical or characteristic free flow speed and or the speed limit of the roadway. The present invention therefore may choose the parameter values and for X and Y from the speed limit or known characteristic free flow speed S by scaling those values linearly with that speed value for S so that 65 mph 40 mph 65 mph 20 mph

The present invention further contemplates that wherever the parameter X is compared to the speed S of any link it is to be assumed that X may be chosen in a way specific to the link such as the linearly proportional method just described. Wherever the parameter Y is used to compare the speed differential between two links L1 and L2 it is to be assumed that the value of Y is one of the values Y1 or Y2 that may be chosen specific to L1 or L2 according to some method such as the one described above. Whether Y1 or Y2 is used in the comparison should be chosen according to a consistent rule such as use the larger of Y1 or Y2 or use Y1 or Y2 according to which of the links L1 or L2 is downstream of the other or use Y1 or Y2 according to which of the links L1 or L2 is upstream of the other.

Bottleneck detection classification and identification in the present invention is comprised of in one aspect thereof software and hardware components such as one or more processors configured to execute program instructions in one or more data processing modules to perform the processing of link speed data as described herein. Also included is a data ingest module configured to receive a plurality of input data from many different sources of such link speed data and this input data may include many different types of data that are further processed to generate link speed data from which the present invention models traffic conditions over the specified periods of time as noted further herein to produce traffic congestion data as output data . The data ingest module may therefore perform an extraction of link speed data from the various types of input data ingested into the present invention. The software and hardware components program instructions and one or more data processing modules may be portions of a broader computing environment configured to perform the bottleneck detection classification and identification of the present invention. is a systemic diagram of a framework for bottleneck detection classification and identification according to the present invention.

The one or more data processing modules may further include modules for performing the various activities within the framework for bottleneck detection classification and identification of the present invention. These may include a detection module a classification module and an identification module .

The present invention may further include a traffic congestion reporting module which may generate as output data from the one or more data processing modules information to be used by public or private entities responsible for managing a transportation infrastructure and roadway network and this output data may be configured in many different ways depending on the intended use. Output data may be in the form of traffic congestion data for the roadway network being modeled and may be further configured for display generally on a graphical user interface or for distribution and or display with third party platforms such as for display on a website via a mobile application or via animated maps or other visualized display by entities such as media outlets . The output data and traffic congestion data may be further distributed to public or private entities responsible for roadway maintenance or roadway safety . The output data and traffic congestion data may be further applied to one or more application programming interface modules for display or distribution of the output data as noted above.

Once a bottleneck head has been detected using the process above of the bottleneck detection classification and identification framework the present invention detects a bottleneck queue by moving upstream along the directed graph of the roadway network to discover the extent of the queue by including all links with reported speed 

Initially the bottleneck queue includes all nearby upstream links that satisfied the two bottleneck head conditions in the process above for the detection of a bottleneck head . Specifically the initial bottleneck queue includes all nearby upstream links whose speed S satisfies 

The present invention proceeds by growing the bottleneck queue according the following procedure. Consider the set of all links that are nearby upstream of any of the non null links already in the bottleneck queue according to the definition of nearby upstream given above. For each such nearby upstream link L where L is already in the bottleneck queue no action is taken. However if the reported speed S of link L satisfies S

The present invention then iteratively grows the bottleneck queue by examining the next set of nearby upstream links to links already in the queue identified by the bottleneck head condition process above. The iterations end when the queue no longer grows any larger. The result is a set of non null links and possibly connecting sequences of null links comprising the fully detected queue of the bottleneck .

In the node N1 is detected as a bottleneck head node because its upstream link L3 satisfies the conditions a and b above because 35Y. For this bottleneck head node the queue detection approach proceeds as follows. Initially the nearby upstream link L3 is in the bottleneck queue and link L2 is not in the queue because it does not satisfy 45Y . In the first iteration of the approach the queue is L3 and so the following nearby upstream links of links in the queue are considered L4 L6 L7.

In the second iteration of this bottleneck queue approach of the present invention the following nearby upstream links of links already in the queue are considered L8 L7. The null link L9 does not satisfy the condition 0.8

After the second iteration of the algorithm the bottleneck queue has not changed so the process terminates. The final bottleneck queue in this example is therefore the set of links L3 L4 L5 L6.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system and method of detecting traffic bottlenecks on a roadway network using link speed data includes classifying each bottleneck to provide an indication to organizations responsible for managing a transportation infrastructure network as to locations on a roadway network that should be investigated as the cause of upstream congestion. More specifically traffic conditions at or near the head of a bottleneck may be the cause of the congested bottleneck queue and therefore categorization of the queues of bottlenecks as detected according to the processes above indicates whether the congestion in each bottleneck queue can be hypothesized as being solely or mainly caused by conditions at the corresponding bottleneck head location . This is performed at least in part by the classification module .

A tail node of a bottleneck queue is defined as any node N such that 1 the bottleneck queue contains at least one link that is immediately downstream of i.e. connected to and directed out of node N and 2 the bottleneck queue contains no links that are immediately upstream of node N. Every bottleneck queue will have at least one tail node .

A linear bottleneck is a bottleneck with exactly one bottleneck head node and exactly one bottleneck tail node and that is not part of any bottleneck complex defined further below . A linear bottleneck may lie entirely on a single named roadway or it may lie on two or more named roadways. A linear bottleneck may be investigated beginning with the hypothesis that all or most of the congestion in the bottleneck queue is attributable to the road conditions at or near the bottleneck point.

A nonlinear bottleneck is a bottleneck with exactly one bottleneck head node and more than one bottleneck tail node and that is not part of any bottleneck complex . A nonlinear bottleneck will normally lie on more than one named roadway. A nonlinear bottleneck may be investigated beginning with the hypothesis that all or most of the congestion in the bottleneck queue is attributable to the road conditions at or near the point of the bottleneck .

A bottleneck complex is any maximal set of two or more bottlenecks in which the queue of each bottleneck in the set shares one or more links with the queue of one or more of the other bottlenecks in the set. The set is maximal if no other detected bottlenecks could be added to the set while still satisfying the condition above. A bottleneck complex necessarily has two or more bottleneck head nodes and has one or more bottleneck tail nodes . A bottleneck complex cannot be investigated beginning with the hypothesis that all or most congestion in the bottleneck queue is attributable to road conditions at or near any single one of the bottleneck head points because there are multiple bottleneck head points. is a graphical illustration of these categories.

Classification of traffic bottlenecks in this manner linear bottleneck non linear bottleneck and bottleneck complex is useful for organizations managing a transportation network infrastructure in many ways. Such organizations may be interested for example in identifying regions where local road conditions possibly in conjunction with other factors such as special events or weather might be causing congestion upstream of a bottleneck . Attempts to mitigate conditions causing the bottleneck may also be measured by the analytics applied to traffic performance metrics described above using traffic congestion data .

As noted above the present invention therefore generates output data representative of traffic conditions that serves as a valuable tool for management organizations to make appropriate decisions concerning a roadway network . For example resultant outcomes of processing link speed data in the bottleneck detection classification and identification framework described herein allow such organizations to determine which links or segments of a roadway network are potentially problematic based on a variety of different factors such as time weather events etc. The resultant outcomes may also assist in differentiating between alternate hypotheses for existing road conditions. As an additional example it may be the case that one hypothesis about road conditions is considered for recurring linear bottlenecks and nonlinear bottlenecks and a different hypothesis is considered for recurring bottleneck complexes . The present invention provides a system and method for distinguishing between such hypotheses to enable transportation infrastructure management to better address conditions in an appropriate time sensitive manner.

Another possible use of bottleneck classification in the present invention is to identify early within say 15 30 minutes when a recurring bottleneck may be beginning the weekday bottleneck at location X is starting at the usual time and then apply knowledge of a set of identified recurrent sustained bottlenecks as described below for follow on predictive traffic modeling. For example the set of identified recurrent sustained bottlenecks may be used to predict the duration of the bottleneck and or predict the occurrence or non occurrence of other recurring bottlenecks on that same day. This information is useful as traffic performance metrics to both transportation infrastructure management entities and for commuters. One follow on predictive use of the present invention is to model the conduct and impact of maintenance activities performed on roadways in conjunction with known speed conditions which may generate resultant improvements in commuter time worker safety and costs for such maintenance activities .

In another embodiment of the present invention a system and method of tracking traffic bottlenecks on a roadway network analyzes link speed data to identify bottlenecks occurring at different times or on different days as part of the same recurring bottleneck where there is an identical or similar bottleneck head location . Identification of recurrent bottlenecks is an important traffic congestion management tool as these have been established as containing the most congestion and consequently the highest number of lost hours of commuter or traveler delay.

Depending on the cause of a bottleneck the bottleneck head location may move from minute to minute hour to hour or day to day. For example traffic may be congested due to conditions on several consecutive freeway entrances or exits such that when the congestion on one such entrance exit begins or clears either permanently or temporarily the bottleneck head location may correspondingly move upstream or downstream. In another example construction may occur along a roadway at different locations on different times or days. Regardless of the cause of changes in the bottleneck head location it is useful for organizations managing a roadway network to be able to detect and aggregate such collections of nearby detected bottlenecks as they may have an identifiable common cause.

In this embodiment the present invention proceeds by tracking recurrent bottlenecks by first defining conditions for similar bottlenecks . A bottleneck BN1 which is one of the detected bottlenecks for link speed data from one time period T1 and a bottleneck BN2 which is one of the set of detected bottlenecks for link speed data from a different time period T2 are similar bottlenecks if 1 neither BN1 nor BN2 are in any bottleneck complex as defined above 2 either the bottleneck head node of BN1 lies within the queue of BN2 or the bottleneck head node of BN2 lies within the queue of BN1 3 no other bottleneck from the set of detected bottlenecks for link speed data from the time period T1 satisfies conditions 1 and 2 above with BN2 and 4 no other bottleneck from the set of detected bottlenecks for link speed data from the time period T2 satisfies conditions 1 and 2 above with BN1.

A node N is defined as lying within a bottleneck queue if one of the links in the bottleneck queue has node N as its end node. In another implementation or as a parameter to this process the definition of a node lying within a bottleneck queue can be extended to include the start node as well as the end node of links in the bottleneck queue . With this change more bottlenecks will be defined as similar to each other. In still another implementation the linear roadway distance between the bottleneck head node of BN1 and the bottleneck head node of BN2 along links lying in either the queue of BN1 or the queue of BN2 may be additionally restricted to be less than a certain value M such as M 2 miles. When this condition is not satisfied the bottlenecks are not similar. Note that two bottlenecks with an identical head location also be similar bottlenecks according to this definition. In yet another implementation bottlenecks BN1 and BN2 may be defined to be similar when their respective queues have any roadway links in common with each other and not in common with any other bottlenecks .

The present invention then analyzes link speed data from a sequence of time periods such as one set of link speed data every 5 minutes . This link speed data may be either in real time and or reflective of current conditions as the data becomes available or all at once using input data from a historical database to obtain persistent bottleneck sets from conditions defined for similar bottlenecks occurring on identical or nearby locations on the roadway network over specified time period sequence.

During the nth time period for each detected bottleneck BN1 if there exists a similar bottleneck BN2 from the previous time period n 1 and neither BN1 nor BN2 is a part of any bottleneck complex as defined above and if BN2 is part of a persistent bottleneck set then BN1 is also similar to all other bottlenecks in the set then group BN1 and BN2 into the same persistent bottleneck set . If no similar bottleneck is found in the previous time period n 1 then these steps are repeated for earlier time periods beginning with n 2 n 3 etc. up to a defined limit. For example with 5 minute time periods the limit might be n 3 corresponding to 15 minutes. The result of the above process is a set of persistent bottlenecks occurring on identical or nearby locations on the roadway network over a range of time periods possibly with gaps.

In the example of bottleneck BN1 consists of 5 links with bottleneck head node N1 bottleneck BN2 consists of 2 links with head node N2 and bottleneck BN3 consists of 1 link with head node N3. Assume that no bottlenecks are part of any bottleneck complex . BN1 is similar to BN2 because the head node N2 of BN2 lies within the queue of BN1. BN1 is also similar to BN3 because the head node N3 of BN3 lies within the queue of BN1. Finally BN2 is not similar to BN3 because the head node N2 of BN2 does not lie within the queue of BN3 and the head node N3 of BN3 does not lie within the queue of BN2.

In persistent bottleneck sets are identified as follows. If BN1 is detected in period n 1 and BN2 is detected in the time period n 2 and BN3 is detected in time period n 3 then after time period n 2 bottlenecks BN1 and BN2 are grouped into a persistent bottleneck set BN1 BN2 because they are similar. After time period n 3 bottleneck BN3 is not grouped into the same persistent bottleneck set because there is a member of the set to which BN3 is not similar namely BN1. If BN1 is detected in time period n 1 and BN2 and BN3 are both detected in time period n 2 then after time period n 2 no bottlenecks are grouped into a persistent bottleneck set because while both BN2 and BN3 satisfy conditions 1 and 2 for similarity as described above they both fail condition 4 .

The set of persistent bottlenecks can be further analyzed many different ways. For example sustained bottlenecks may be identified as those persistent bottleneck sets that persist for a specified amount of time such as 25 minutes or longer allowing for gaps of up to 10 minutes in any given greater time period of persistence.

To compare persistent bottlenecks to each other across some period of time such as multiple days for identification of recurrent bottlenecks similarity between bottlenecks can be extended so as to apply to persistent bottleneck sets across that period of time. For example persistent bottleneck P consisting of bottlenecks P1 P2 . . . is similar to another persistent bottleneck Q consisting of bottlenecks Q1 Q2 . . . if all the bottlenecks P1 P2 . . . are similar to all the bottlenecks Q1 Q2 . . . etc. It is to be understood that this aspect of the present invention shall not be limited to days and may indeed refer to other aggregated time periods of interest such as weeks months etc. time windows such as 6 hour 8 hour or 12 hour windows etc. Denoted peak and or off peak time periods or shifts may also be compared such as AM morning peak e.g. 5 am to 10 am PM evening peak e.g. 3 pm to 8 pm and noon time shift e.g. 10 am to 3 pm . Accordingly persistent bottlenecks may be compared across any time period of interest and the present invention is not intended to be limited to any particular period of time for comparison.

Many measures of the spatial and temporal extent of traffic bottlenecks may be obtained using this embodiment of the present invention. For example for individual bottlenecks in a single time period it is possible to ascertain the total length in miles or kilometers of all links in a bottleneck queue .

For persistent bottleneck sets it is possible to ascertain metrics over an observed time period such as the median mean maximum values etc. of the duration total length and spatio temporal extent. One may determine the duration by multiplying the number of time periods persistently detected by the length of each time period. Alternatively instead of being persistently detected the time period may be a customary derived quantity such as a sustained time as described above. The present invention enables observation of an integrated spatio temporal extent for example minute miles determined by the sum of bottleneck duration multiplied by the total length over all observed time periods.

For recurring persistent bottleneck sets it is possible to ascertain the number or fraction of days in a given period such as a month that the persistent bottleneck occurred. Additionally as with persistent bottleneck sets as described above metrics such as the total median mean maximum etc. may be obtained for each of the spatial or temporal measures above such as the duration minutes total length miles kilometers and integrated spatio temporal extent minute miles .

The systems and methods of the various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in many different computing environments. For example they may be implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor electronic or logic circuitry such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as a PLD PLA FPGA PAL and any comparable means. In general any means of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of this invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other such hardware. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory nonvolatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be configured to perform the methods described herein.

The systems and methods of the present invention may also be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as a program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Additionally the data processing functions disclosed herein may be performed by one or more program instructions stored in or executed by such memory and further may be performed by one or more modules configured to carry out those program instructions. Modules are intended to refer to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic expert system or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the data processing functionality described herein.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Accordingly many alterations modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description. For example notwithstanding the fact that the elements of a claim are set forth below in a certain combination it must be expressly understood that the invention includes other combinations of fewer more or different elements which are disclosed in above even when not initially claimed in such combinations.

The words used in this specification to describe the invention and its various embodiments are to be understood not only in the sense of their commonly defined meanings but to include by special definition in this specification structure material or acts beyond the scope of the commonly defined meanings. Thus if an element can be understood in the context of this specification as including more than one meaning then its use in a claim must be understood as being generic to all possible meanings supported by the specification and by the word itself.

The definitions of the words or elements of the following claims are therefore defined in this specification to include not only the combination of elements which are literally set forth but all equivalent structure material or acts for performing substantially the same function in substantially the same way to obtain substantially the same result. In this sense it is therefore contemplated that an equivalent substitution of two or more elements may be made for any one of the elements in the claims below or that a single element may be substituted for two or more elements in a claim. Although elements may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such it is to be expressly understood that one or more elements from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and that the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Insubstantial changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalently within the scope of the claims. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements.

The claims are thus to be understood to include what is specifically illustrated and described above what is conceptually equivalent what can be obviously substituted and also what essentially incorporates the essential idea of the invention.

