---

title: Method and apparatus for managing interruptions from different modes of communication
abstract: Methods and apparatus for managing interruptions in a multiple communication mode environment are provided herein. For example, a method may include receiving at least first instance of communication data associated with a first communication mode; obtaining first attribute data related to the first instance of communication data; classifying the first instance of communication data into first category based on the first attribute data using the interruption management device; and determining whether to interrupt a user by delivering the first instance of communication data based on the first category. The first category may be selected from a plurality of predetermined categories using a classification algorithm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654941&OS=09654941&RS=09654941
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09654941
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 462 240 filed May 2 2012 entitled Method and Apparatus for Managing Interruptions from Different Modes of Communication which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Individuals have many modes of communication i.e. telephone cell phone email text messaging instant messaging etc. available to them and can choose among the available modes of communication in order to boost their productivity. For example it may be more efficient to communicate with a colleague using an instant message or a family member using a text message. Alternatively in some circumstances it may be desirable to communicate via email or phone.

However having many modes of communication available may also be a burden. This is especially the case when individuals are trying to concentrate and avoid interruptions. For example research has shown that too much multi tasking or switching from one project to another may lead to inefficiencies and mistakes. At this time individuals are forced to individually turn off modes of communication in order to avoid interruptions. Thus they lack the ability to filter or fine tune to achieve a tolerable level of interruption based on specific needs and circumstances.

Further individuals may be subject to targeted and or personalized marketing i.e. interruptions . Targeted marketing comes in a variety of different forms such as e signage augmented reality social media driven solicitations for goods and services etc. For example a person walking down a street may receive a barrage of targeted marketing on his mobile device through many different modes of communication. Similarly to above there is no way to filter to achieve a tolerable level of targeted marketing. Instead of turning off his mobile device the person may prefer to customize a filter in order to receive only targeted marketing that matches his immediate interest.

An individual may be capable of setting a tolerable level of interruption based on the individual s specific needs and circumstances. For example the individual may set the desired level of interruption using an interruption manager. After setting a desired level of interruption the interruption manager may be configured to throttle interruptions received through a plurality of communications modes including but not limited to email text message instant message and voice message. The interruptions may also be related to any subject such as work personal targeted marketing or any other subject for example. The interruption manager may utilize an individualized profile in order to throttle communications to the individual.

For example methods and apparatus for managing interruptions in a multiple communication mode environment are provided herein. In an example implementation a method for managing interruptions using an interruption management device may include receiving at least a first instance of communication data associated with a first communication mode obtaining first attribute data related to the first instance of communication data classifying the first instance of communication data into a first category based on the first attribute data using the interruption management device and determining whether to interrupt a user by delivering the first instance of communication data based on the first category. The first category may be selected from a plurality of predetermined categories using a classification algorithm.

In addition the method may include storing the first instance of communication data under the condition that the user is not to be interrupted.

Alternatively or additionally the method may include receiving an interruption threshold level at the interruption management device determining whether to interrupt a user by comparing the first category to the interruption threshold level and interrupting the user by delivering the first instance of communication data when the first category or the second category equals or exceeds the interruption threshold level. The interruption threshold level may be associated with at least one of the predetermined categories.

In another example implementation the method may include receiving a set of historical communication data including a plurality of instances of communication data associated with at least one communication mode obtaining attribute data associated with each instance of communication data in the set of historical communication data and constructing a classification model for the classification algorithm using the attribute data associated with each instance of communication data included in the set of historical communication data.

In yet another implementation the method may include receiving feedback from the user regarding accuracy of results of the classification and modifying the classification model based on the feedback.

In some implementations the classification algorithm may be a data tree classification a Naive Bayes classification or a hybrid data tree Naive Bayes classification.

Alternatively or additionally each of the first attribute data may be information related to an author of the instance of communication data a type of communication mode with which the instance of communication data is associated or a descriptive keyword included in the instance of communication data.

Further the multiple communication modes may include an email service a text message service an instant message service or a voice message service.

In another example implementation a non transient computer readable recording medium having computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by an interruption management device cause the interruption management device to perform interruption management in a multiple communication mode environment.

In yet another implementation of the invention an interruption management device for managing interruptions in a multiple communication mode environment may be provided.

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present disclosure. While implementations will be described for managing text based messages received through different modes of communication it will become evident to those skilled in the art that the implementations are not limited thereto but are applicable for managing any type message content associated with different modes of communication.

Referring to an interruption manager for use in a multiple communication mode environment is shown. In an example implementation the interruption manager may include a communication mode interface module a message parser module and an enforcement module . In addition the enforcement module may include a message classification module and an interruption module . The interruption manager is not limited to the above example and may instead include additional modules and or excluded modules discussed herein.

The communication mode interface module may provide a single interface through which data received through multiple communication modes must pass. In other words the communication mode interface module may act as a communication conduit or funnel through which all communication channels send data. For example the multiple communication modes may include an e mail service a text message service or SMS an instant message service a phone service etc. When the received content is not text based i.e. a voice message the content may be transcribed into text for use by the interruption manager . One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that there are open APIs available for interacting with communication data associated with different communication modes. For example the Unity Connection platform available from CISCO SYSTEMS INC. San Jose Calif. provides a mechanism for managing communication data received from multiple communication modes.

After receiving the communication data at the communication mode interface module each instance of communication data may be forwarded to the message parser module . Each instance of communication data received is associated with attribute data. The attribute data may include but is not limited to information regarding the author or source of the communication data i.e. the human dimension information regarding the type of communication mode or characteristics of the communication data i.e. the interaction dimension and information regarding keywords within the communication data i.e. the keyword dimension . The attribute data may be metadata associated with each instance of the communication data for example. As discussed below the attribute data may be used to determine the relative importance of the communication data which may then be used to determine whether to interrupt the user by delivering the communication data.

The human dimension attribute data may be relevant to the relationship between the sender and recipient of the communication data. For example the human dimension attribute data may reveal that the sender of the communication data is within the recipient s management chain a direct or indirect supervisor a co worker a family member a friend a client etc. The relationship may be determined using the recipient s address book and or any other means such as an organizational directory for example. In addition to the relationship the human dimension attribute data may reveal information regarding the frequency of communication sent between the sender and recipient i.e. the number of interactions over time . Accordingly the human dimension attribute data may provide information regarding the relative importance of the communication data.

The interaction dimension attribute data may reveal the type of communication mode i.e. e mail text message instant message voice message etc. . In addition the interaction dimension attribute data may reveal information regarding the size or length of the communication data and or time of day information. The interaction dimension attribute data may be determined from the communication data itself. The interaction dimension attribute data may provide information regarding the relative importance of the communication data because the recipient may have a history of responding more quickly to communication data received through certain communication modes communication data of certain lengths and or communication data sent at certain times i.e. times when the recipient is unoccupied .

The keyword dimension attribute data may reveal information about the content of the communication data which may also provide information regarding the relative importance of the communication data. The keywords may be derived from the content of communication data sent received by the recipient and or provided by the recipient for example. The keywords may be associated with communication data that the recipient is particularly interested in receiving. For example the keywords may be associated with projects and or subject matter on which the recipient is currently working. Alternatively or additionally the keywords may be associated with subject matter on which the recipient considers particularly interesting such as news sporting events entertainment and or commercial information for example. In a targeted marketing message the keywords may be associated with a description of the goods and or services the place and or time of availability or any other descriptive information related to the goods and or services such as details about a sale. The keyword dimension attribute data which tends to be more subjective may require more input from the user to train the interruption manager in recognizing relevant keywords than the user input required with regard to the human dimension and interaction dimension attribute data.

Next each instance of communication data may be forwarded to the message classification module . The message classification module may classify each instance of communication data into one of a plurality of predetermined categories. For example the predetermined categories may include five categories related to the level of importance of the communication data such as ignore low medium high and urgent. There are many options available for classifying each instance of communication data. For example the message classification module may utilize an algorithm based on the user s historic communication pattern. The algorithm may account for how often and quickly the user responds to e mails instant message pings voicemails etc. By analyzing the attribute data associated with each instance of historic communication data it may also be possible to account for differences in response times to communication data received from particular senders and or related to particular subject matters. Alternatively the message classification module may utilize a reinforcement learning algorithm. Example reinforcement learning algorithms may be found in Van Hasslet H. http homepages.cwi.nl hasselt rl algs rl algs.html. When using a reinforcement learning algorithm the message classification module initially assumes that each instance of communication data has the same level of priority. Over time the reinforcement learning algorithm learns the right combination of input patterns using the attribute data associated with the communication data to classify the communication data according to its level of importance.

Optionally the message classification module may utilize a classification model constructed based on a set of historic communication data for use with a classification algorithm. The classification algorithm may be for example a decision tree classifier a Naive Bayes classifier a hybrid decision tree Naive Bayes classifier an SVM etc. The set of historic communication data may include a plurality of instances of communication data. In addition the set of historic communication data may include data associated with one or more communication modes. In some cases increasing the size of the set of historic communication data may increase the accuracy obtained when using the classification algorithm to classify the received communication data.

A decision tree classifier uses a decision tree as a model to map attributes i.e. the attribute data of a received instance of communication data to conclusions about the predetermined category into which the instance of received communication data should be classified. The decision tree is typically constructed by recursive partitioning. For example the decision tree may be constructed from the top down by choosing the best attribute for splitting the set of historic communication data into subsets i.e. child nodes as the root i.e. parent node of the tree. At each subsequent step the next best attribute is chosen for splitting each subset into further subsets. This process is typically repeated until further splitting no longer adds value to the prediction. A number of criterion may be utilized to determine how well a chosen attribute splits each set into subsets including but not limited to mutual information gain ratio gini index etc. Example decision tree algorithms are the C4.5 and C5.0 algorithms.

The Naive Bayes classifier is based on Bayes theorem. Specifically the Naive Bayes classifier utilizes Bayes theorem to calculate the probability that a received instance of communication data belongs in each predetermined category. The Naive Bayes classifier however begins with the assumption that the attributes i.e. the attribute data are conditionally independent i.e. each of the attributes independently contributes to the probability that the instance of communication data belongs in each predetermined category . The Naive Bayes classifier is discussed in detail in Youn et al. http sir lab.usc.edu publications Youn CISSE.pdf and Cufoglu et al. ICMLA 787 91 2008 .

A hybrid decision tree Naive Bayes classifier may also be utilized. This may be particularly useful when the set of historic communication data is large. The hybrid approach attempts to capitalize on the advantages of both decision tree and Naive Bayes classifiers. For example the hybrid approach includes a decision tree having single attribute splits at each node and Naive Bayes classifiers at the leaves. An example hybrid approach is discussed in detail in Kohavi R. KDD 202 07 1996 .

To construct the classification model a set of historic communication data may be collected. As discussed above the set of historic communication data may include a plurality of instances of communication data associated with one or more communication modes. In addition each instance of communication data may be associated with the attribute data i.e. human dimension interaction dimension and keyword dimension attribute data . Further the user may be asked to classify each instance of communication data included in the set of historic communication data into one of the predetermined categories such as ignore low medium high and urgent for example. After collecting all of the attribute data as well as the user input the classification model may be constructed because the attribute data reveals information about the relative importance of each instance of communication data included in the set. The constructed classification model may then be used to classify each instance of subsequently received communication data into one of the predetermined categories using the attribute data associated with each instance of received communication data.

Upon classifying each instance of received communication data into one of the predetermined categories the interruption module may determine whether to interrupt the user based on the classification. For example the user may enter an interruption threshold level which may be associated with at least one of the predetermined categories. In some implementations the user may select from non available busy available etc. for example. If the user selects busy which may be associated with category high the interruption module may determine whether to interrupt the user based on the predetermined category of each instance of received communication data determined using the classification module . For example if the instance of received communication data is categorized as high or urgent i.e. equal to or greater than the selected interruption threshold level then the instance of received communication data may be delivered to the user to interrupt the user. If however the instance of received communication data is categorized as ignore low or medium i.e. less than the selected interruption threshold level the instance of received communication data may be saved in memory to the user to avoid interruption.

Referring to a simplified block diagram illustrating a system for providing access to the interruption manager of is shown. A client device such as a computer mobile computing device tablet etc. may be connected to a network through a network device such as a router gateway etc. The client device and the network device may be part of a local area network which is shown by a dashed line in . By connecting the client device to the network the client device may be capable of communicating with a remote server . In some implementations the remote server may be connected to the network via a local area network. The network may be for example the Internet and the client device the remote server and the network device may be implemented as general computing devices as discussed below with regard to or alternatively as specialized computing devices configured to perform specific tasks. In addition the client device the network device and the remote server may be connected to the network by any type of connection wired or wireless including but not limited to an Ethernet Wi Fi 3G or 4G connection. Alternatively in some implementations the client device and the remote server may be part of the same local area network.

The interruption manager discussed with regard to may be implemented using hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. For example the communication mode interface module message parser module enforcement module message classification module and interruption module may be program code i.e. computer executable instructions embodied in tangible computer readable media capable of being loaded into and executed by the client device the network device and or the remote server . In this case the modules may be included as application programs stored on one or more of the client device remote server or network device .

Referring to a flow diagram of example operations for constructing a classification model for use with the interruption manager of is shown. The classification model may be constructed for use with a classification algorithm i.e. a decision tree Naive Bayes or a decision tree Naive Bayes classifier . The classification model preferably maps attributes associated with each instance of received communication data to a conclusion regarding the relative importance of each instance of communication data. For example communication data sent by a user s direct supervisor may be more important and therefore worthy of interrupting the user than communication data sent by a friend. Alternatively or additionally communication data related to a project on which the user is currently working may be more important than communication data related to an upcoming event. Accordingly the classification model may be constructed by analyzing the attribute data associated with each instance of communication data included in a set of historic communication data where the user provides input regarding the relative importance of each instance of communication data included in the set.

At a set of historic communication data may be received. As discussed above the set may include a plurality of instances of communication data and each instance of communication data may be associated with the attribute data. In addition the set may include communication data associated one or more different modes of communication. The attribute data may provide additional information regarding the source type and content of each instance of communication data. The attribute data may be human dimension interaction dimension or keyword dimension attribute data for example. At the level of importance of each instance of communication data may be received. For example in some implementations there may be five different levels of importance i.e. ignore low medium high and urgent . However there may be more or less different levels of importance. The level of importance of each instance of communication data may be provided by the user using an application program for example.

At the attribute data associated with each instance of communication data included in the set may be obtained. Thereafter at the classification model may be constructed. Because the level of importance of each instance of communication data has been received it may be possible to analyze the attribute data and determine which attributes are associated with communication data having higher levels of importance. Accordingly the resulting classification model preferably maps attributes associated with each instance of received communication data to a conclusion regarding its relative importance.

At a determination is made as to whether the classification model should be updated. If NO the classification model may be used with the classification algorithm in order to classify each instance of received communication data. If YES the classification model may be updated. For example at periodic intervals the user may be provided with a list of communication data classified using the classification algorithm. In particular the list may indicate each instance of communication data including the source type description of content etc. along with the predetermined category i.e. the level of importance assigned using the classification algorithm. The user may then provide feedback regarding the accuracy of the predetermined categories assigned using the classification algorithm. This feedback data may be used to modify the classification model at .

Referring to a flow diagram of example operations for managing interruptions using the interruption manager of is shown. As discussed above the classification model may map attributes associated with each instance of received communication data with a conclusion about its relative importance. At an instance of communication data may be received. In addition each instance of communication data may be associated with a different communication mode. For example communication modes may include e mail text messaging instant messaging voicemail etc. However communication data associated with the different communication modes are received at the same communication mode interface module i.e. the communication mode interface module of for example . At the attribute data associated with the instance of received communication data may be obtained. Thereafter at the instance of received communication data may be classified into one of a plurality of predetermined categories using the classification algorithm. The predetermined categories may be related to the relative importance of the communication data i.e. ignore low medium high or urgent . As discussed above the instance of received communication data may be classified using a classification algorithm such as a decision tree classifier a Naive Bayes classifier or a decision tree Naive Bayes classifier for example. The classification algorithm preferably maps attributes associated with the instance of received communication data i.e. the attribute data to a conclusion about the relative importance of the received communication data such as ignore low medium high or urgent.

After classifying the instance of received communication data a determination is made as to whether to interrupt the user. If YES the instance of received communication data is delivered to the user at . In this case the user is interrupted. If NO the instance of received communication data may be stored in a memory for example to avoid interrupting the user at . In this case the user may gain access to the instance of received communication data at a later time.

Referring to a flow diagram of example operations for managing interruptions using the interruption manager of is shown. At an interruption threshold level of the user may be received. For example the user may select among a predetermined number of interruption threshold levels such as non available busy available etc. Each interruption threshold level may be associated with one or more of the predetermined categories i.e. ignore low medium high or urgent . For example interruption threshold level available may be associated with category low. In this case the user may be interrupted when receiving communication data categorized as low medium high or urgent. However the user may not be interrupted when receiving communication data categorized as ignore. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the number of interruption threshold levels the number of predetermined categories and the associations between the interruption threshold levels and predetermined categories are variable.

At an instance of communication data may be received. As discussed above the instance of received communication data may be associated with one of the different communication modes. At the attribute data associated with the instance of received communication data may be obtained. Thereafter at the instance of received communication data may be classified into one of the predetermined categories using a classification algorithm for example. After classifying the instance of received communication data a determination may be made as to whether to interrupt the user at . For example at in order to make the determination the category i.e. ignore low medium high or urgent may be compared to the selected interruption threshold level i.e. not available busy available etc. which is associated with one or more of the predetermined categories. For example the interruption threshold level available may be associated with the category low. Therefore if the instance of received communication is categorized into a category equal to or greater than the interruption threshold level i.e. low medium high or urgent the user may be interrupted. However if the instance of received communication data is categorized into a category less than the interruption threshold level i.e. ignore the user may not be interrupted. Similarly to the operations shown in if the user is to be interrupted the instance of received communication data may be delivered to the user at . If the user is not to be interrupted the instance of received communication data may be stored in a memory for example to avoid interrupting the user at . In this case the user may gain access to the instance of received communication data at a later time.

Referring to an example computing device is illustrated. The client device network device and or server discussed above may be computing devices such as computing device shown in . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . The processing unit may be a standard programmable processor that performs arithmetic and logic operations necessary for operation of the computing device .

The processing unit may be configured to execute program code encoded in tangible computer readable media. For example the processing unit may execute program code stored in the system memory .

Computing device may have additional features functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage such as removable storage and non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Computing device may also contain network connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse touch screen etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware firmware or software or where appropriate with a combination thereof. Thus the methods and apparatuses of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computing device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

