---

title: Method for rapid development of schedule controled networkable merchant ecommerce sites
abstract: An improved computerized ecommerce method, optimized for smaller merchants such as florists who often provide seasonal perishable gifts that require local delivery, and who often desire to form cooperative networks with local merchants offering related gift services, as well as other related merchants such as other florists in more distant locations. The web server based method allows merchants to easily set up non-static (time variable) websites that automatically provide schedule driven promotions. New products can be quickly uploaded from smartphones, and sophisticated time and location aware algorithms can compute accurate delivery costs and make such costs transparent to customers. Other participating merchants can be easily added to the system to form local and distant cooperative merchant networks. The system simplifies customer use of promotional offers by cross checking customer URL versus promotion lists. Recipient gift appreciation is optimized by providing interfaces to allow customer designed gift cards and messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626713&OS=09626713&RS=09626713
owner: 
number: 09626713
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140331
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 807 214 METHOD FOR RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF SCHEDULE CONTROLLED NETWORKABLE MERCHANT ECOMMERCE SITES inventor Sundaram Natarajan filed Apr. 1 2013 the complete contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention is in the field of internet web server facilitated ecommerce and mobile ecommerce apps for handheld computerized devices.

As internet technology has advanced more and more commerce is done using computerized devices that connect with various commerce computerized data servers often web servers over the internet. Such internet facilitated commerce services are generally referred to as ecommerce.

Although many large corporations such as Amazon.com eBay and the like have transformed commerce through the use of large scale banks of servers which offer a large range of online products certain areas of commerce have not advanced as quickly. In particular smaller scale local merchants such as florists bakers party supply vendors and the like who often may offer local delivery of various perishable products such as flowers and perishable foods often for gift purposes have been less well served.

As a result often these various local merchants must expend a considerable amount of time energy and money creating and updating their own individual ecommerce websites. To assist in this process certain prior art ecommerce software packages such as the open source OsCommerce system and other systems such as Magento are available that provide a prefabricated software ecommerce framework for merchants to set up their own online ecommerce systems. However these prior art prefabricated ecommerce framework software systems still require a considerable amount of customization to optimize. Indeed they are often so complex that usually use of skilled programmers is required to produce good results.

An additional problem that various local merchants in particular gift merchants such as florists have is that there is often a need for merchants in one geographic area to cooperate with merchants from another geographic area. Such merchants may have loyal local customers that tend to assume that the merchant has an ability to extend its local services further than may actually be the case and who turn to the local merchant for assistance for things such as delivering gifts to more distant locations.

Thus for example in many third party beneficiary contracts such as gifts a customer buyer may wish to work with a local florist to arrange for a more distant florist to deliver a gift of flowers to a third party beneficiary type recipient such as a relative friend or business associate.

In an effort to meet these consumer expectations some local merchants such as florists sign up for relatively high overhead services such as FTD florist that allow the florists and their customers to access a central website and contract with florists located closer to the recipient s location to deliver a standardized series of floral arrangements. However such services come at a cost. Because only a limited range of standardized floral arrangements are made available it is all too often the case that the florists that happen to be located near the delivery area cannot or would prefer not to deliver the advertised floral arrangements. Further the prior art delivery charge methods tended to hide the true costs of delivery from the customer and also tended to impose unrealistic delivery cost expectations on the delivery florist. Thus further improvements in the area of ecommerce technology in particular for local merchants such as florists that provide gift type perishable products that may also have to be delivered would be desirable.

The invention is based in part on the overall vision of delivering a highly automated flexible and easy to use ecommerce system optimized for the needs of local merchants such as florists that often deliver perishable products often gifts . The system is designed to be simple enough that even merchants who are relatively unskilled in computer technology can maintain their ecommerce systems with minimal amounts of time effort and money.

The invention may be particularly useful for the gift industry where the buyer and the recipient are two different entities and for situations where either same day delivery or scheduled delivery is desired. Some of the various aspects of the invention include 

Calendar or other schedule based automatic website updates The invention is based in part on the insight that for many local merchants of perishable products particularly when delivery is part of the purchase and particularly when the products may be gifts have a large fraction of their orders occur on a predictable schedule. In particular a large percentage of purchases occur on a calendar type schedule based on important secular or religious holidays such as Christmas Hanukkah New Years Valentine s Day Chinese New Year Easter and the like.

During these peak event times it often is useful for the merchant to at least partially customize their website with various event specific banners and other graphics and text as well as various products or services focused on these particular events. Thus florists for example may wish to promote corsages at graduation times bouquets of roses at Valentine s Day put up ecommerce website banners commemorating Easter and so on.

Because these scheduled events can be predicted in advance and have a known sequence and duration in one embodiment the invention provides a calendar based scheduling service as well as various online artistic tools enabling the merchant to quickly customize their website with calendar controlled banners and calendar controlled product offerings. This allows the merchant to set up a timed series of event specific banners and other event specific web features that automatically update the merchant s ecommerce website to reflect these events. Once set up the merchant s ecommerce website can then remain automatically current throughout the year with a minimal need for further manual updating.

Sophisticated delivery cost estimation engine The invention is also based in part on the insight that particularly with regards to local delivery often the merchant s actual delivery costs are highly variable depending on day time of day and exact geographical locations of the merchant and the recipient. Prior art ecommerce services particularly for small merchant mediated deliveries failed to sufficiently keep track of such costs. This had unfortunate consequences for all parties concerned. For example a florist that had to accept an order with an unrealistically low delivery cost would be tempted to recoup at least some of the extra delivery costs by substituting a cheaper product. Thus the buyer might order a fancy bouquet but pay an unrealistically low delivery cost. The recipient might in turn receive a substandard bouquet. Despite all this the merchant might still end up with an inadequate profit.

To help prevent situations such as this the invention further provides a sophisticated delivery cost customization engine or set of algorithms that allows the merchant to precisely dial in more realistic time and location variable delivery costs provide more realistic delivery cost calculations and make these costs available to the purchaser typically ecommerce purchaser . The net result is that the purchaser can make intelligent delivery decisions and the delivery merchant is adequately compensated for the true costs of delivery. The delivery merchant thus has less incentive to compensate for unrealistic delivery costs by substituting lower quality products.

Addition of new products in minutes using smartphone apps The invention is also based in part on the insight that many local merchants are creative and innovative individuals who often have both the desire and ability to come up with various creative variations on otherwise standard products. However due to the cumbersome nature of present day ecommerce systems the burden on the local merchant to customize their website to adequately showcase these spontaneous creations tends to inhibit this creativity. Again using the floral industry as an example a local florist may come up with a creative and cost effective new floral arrangement in a few minutes but if it takes hours of work to then advertise the new floral arrangement on the florist s ecommerce website then that creative new floral arrangement may never see the light of day.

In another embodiment to address this problem the invention utilizes modern smartphone or mobile computerized tablet technology to provide easy to use ecommerce website maintenance apps. These apps allow merchants to utilize the smartphone s camera to photograph or take short video clips of their creations tap in a new product listing and upload a new product to their ecommerce website in a few minutes or less.

Easy formation of ecommerce networks with other participating merchants The invention is also based in part on the insight that local merchants often need to cooperate with other merchants. These other merchants can be other local merchants or artisans or may be more distantly located merchants and artisans.

For example a local florist and a local baker may find it advantageous to cross promote each other s products and services on each other s websites so that for example a purchaser who wishes to send a gift of flowers could also have a cake delivered at the same time and vice versa. Additionally again using the floral industry as an example different florists in geographically different locations may wish to join forces to form their own network of connected floral services.

The invention s merchant networking capability allows merchants to spontaneously form various formal and informal networks. The invention s merchant networking capabilities can operate automatically and apart from merchant sign up can then require little or no additional human intervention or overhead. Alternatively an administrator can facilitate this process as desired.

As a result due to fact that there are little or no middleman fees the invention s merchant networks can operate with high efficiently. At the same time by joining forces an originating merchant such as a florist in one area of the country can send business to another recipient delivery merchant i.e. another florist in another area of the country and pocket a decent commission for this. However because there is otherwise no middleman to extract fees from the system enough money remains that the distant delivery merchant can still provide a high quality requested product at a satisfactory profit margin as well.

In another embodiment the invention also provides an easy to implement system and method to allow formation of such informal merchant networks. As a result everyone purchaser first originating merchant second recipient delivery merchant and the ultimate gift or product recipient is more likely to be satisfied due to the high efficiency and lack of middleman costs of the system.

No purchaser effort promotional code system The invention is further based on the insight that prior art mechanisms of providing promotional codes for purchases were too cumbersome. According to prior art if a company such as Intel received a group promotional code for a discount off of purchases e.g. 10 off the employees of the company would have to obtain the Intel promotional code and provide it to the merchant in order to receive discounts. However according to the invention s improved methods the invention s ecommerce web server can optionally link these promotions directly with the originating ecommerce customer s URL or email address here for example web browser purchases originating from Intel or Intel purchaser email addresses from which the product purchase had originated. The system can then use the product purchase URL or email address to automatically assign promotional product price or shipping discounts thus reducing purchaser effort.

Recipient delivery and gift customization The invention is also based in part on the insight that although many such local merchant ecommerce based purchases will be for gifts for others often such gifts need not be surprise gifts. When such gifts are not surprise gifts it can often be further desirable to give the gift recipient at least some advance notice of the gift as well as at least some ability to modify the time that the gift arrives and even potentially modify the nature of the gift. Thus for example a recipient of flowers can get an advance email or SMS notice of the gift along with a link to the invention s ecommerce website and may be able to redirect the time or day of arrival to a more appropriate time or day of arrival thus ensuring that the flowers arrive when the recipient is not on vacation.

Alternatively a recipient of a gift for a first flavor or type of cake might modify the cake to a more preferred type or flavor. In another embodiment the invention also provides for such an ability to notify the recipient electronically and to allow at least partial modification of the gift by for example going to the local merchant s website and selecting various alternative delivery or gift type options.

Easy customer gift card customization The invention is further based on the insight that at least with regards to gifts often the gift recipient values the thought i.e. affection good intentions behind the gift as much or more than the gift itself. However present industry practice of only providing entry of text into otherwise standardized gift card designs somewhat defeats this purpose. The invention further provides an easy to use user interface that allows the purchaser of the gift to custom design the art of the gift cards delivered with the gifts as well. Thus for example gift cards can appear to be hand drawn with customer generated handwriting and customer generated or selected art or doodles further providing evidence of the purchasers thought behind the gift. These artistically customized gift cards can further enhance the mutual satisfaction of both the gift giver and recipient.

Thus in one embodiment the system may be an ecommerce method and system which can be optimized for smaller merchants such as florists who often engage in seasonal perishable gifts that require local delivery and who often need to form cooperative networks with local merchants offering related gift services as well as other related merchants such as other florists in more distant locations. The invention s web server based method allows merchants to easily set up non static time variable ecommerce websites that automatically provide schedule driven promotions. New products can be easily entered into the website using smartphones to photograph and then upload along with product descriptions. More sophisticated time and location aware algorithms can more accurately compute accurate delivery costs and can also make such costs transparent to customers resulting in more intelligent purchases and increased satisfaction. Other participating merchants can be easily added to the system to form cooperative local and distant merchant networks. The system can further simplify administration of promotions by cross checking customer URL versus promotion lists. Additionally recipient gift appreciation may be further optimized by providing interfaces to allow customer designed gift cards and messages with customer handwritten text and sketches.

Other features such as the ability to operate multiple automatically customized cloned ecommerce websites for higher sales and search engine customization and automatic posting of product updates to online social networks will also be described.

Although in some embodiments the invention may be operated on a peer to peer basis with data decentralized and exchanged among a number of cooperating merchant ecommerce servers in a preferred embodiment a single database may be used to drive at least the high level aspects of the system. Although this single database may also store and retrieve various types of data from a variety of merchant servers at least on a temporary basis in the single database embodiment the single database will generally end up holding some or even all of the data needed to manage the system. This single database can also be used to create various merchant administrator control panels manage uploads and downloads from various smartphone apps as well as to help implement various merchant point of sale systems.

As previously discussed the invention is designed to allow rapid setup and modification of ecommerce websites particularly ecommerce websites optimized for the unique needs of local merchants who deliver perishable products and gifts such as florists bakers and the like. The invention is designed so that it can be easily used by users with minimal computer and programming skills. The system is further designed so that merchants can maintain the system using only standard web browsers and apps running on standard handheld internet connected computerized devices such as smartphones e.g. the popular iPhone Android series phones tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers and the like.

Some of the novel aspects of the system as previously discussed include calendar based automatic website updates a more sophisticated delivery cost estimation engine an ability for merchants to add new products to their ecommerce sites using simple to use smartphone apps in only a few minutes easy formation of ecommerce networks with other participating merchants simplified no customer effort promotional code system improved recipient delivery time and gift customization easy customer gift card customization and other improvements to be discussed. Additional aspects also include automated search engine optimization features ability to automatically manage multiple merchant echo ecommerce websites and ability to automatically push product updates to various social media sites.

In some embodiments the invention may be a method of managing at least one schedule driven dynamic layout ecommerce website for at least one merchant usually a plurality of cooperating merchants . In a preferred embodiment at least one processor often located in centralized server utilizing centralized database and automated website creation software which will be described in more detail shortly will manage at least the high level organization of the system. In particular this centralized server and centralized database can be used to configure at least one and usually multiple schedule driven dynamic layout ecommerce websites. shows these websites as being run on other servers e.g. M M M that are different from the centralized server . However because servers can run multiple websites and one machine can run multiple virtual machines each running their own servers this need not always be the case.

In a preferred embodiment these ecommerce websites will typically have at least some web pages composed or made up of various dynamic sections. These dynamic sections which are shown in more detail in are generally associated with various corresponding products e.g. and product data. This will often be done on a one product per dynamic section basis. This product data may comprise information such as a description of the product product description which can include both text as well as images and video of the product product price which may vary according to a time schedule inventory availability merchant entered variables promotions and other parameters one or more Stock Keeping Unit SKU identifier s product inventory information e.g. how many in stock or how many product components in stock and product availability schedule often a calendar schedule showing days or times when the product is available. Additionally information as to which merchant has the product in stock and location from which the product may be shipped may also be included in the product data.

Other data which may be stored in the form of product data or in the data for the merchant associated with a given product can again include the location where the product is shipped from often the location where the merchant for that particular product is located . The other data may also include shipping information for that product shipping location. This can include shipping prices as well as various delivery times and location constraints. Various shipping price modifiers e.g. promotions price varying as per delivery time price varying as per shipping location price varying according to various other merchant entered parameters can also be included. Relative to a specific example here would be the shipping price as determined by the time and address where the product should be delivered to the recipient .

Note that this shipping information and the computed shipping price will often be quite sensitive to the product shipping location often the location of the merchant that has the product as well as the recipient s location. Thus the computed shipping price to ship product to recipient may be quite different than the shipping price to ship product to recipient . The system may also be configured to either not accept the possibility of some product location shipping destinations such as the possibility of shipping product to recipient or suggest alternative merchants or products instead. Often the system will be configured to try to optimize selection of merchants and products so that at least among cooperating merchants all enrolled in the system merchants located closer to the recipient destination will often be given at least a higher weighting in the selection process.

Put alternatively the product delivery time and location constraints can be viewed as imposing product delivery charge and surcharge information for certain delivery times and locations relative that product s shipping location.

As previously discussed in a preferred embodiment this product data usually for a plurality of products will be stored in a centralized database . For convenience often this product data and other data as well can be entered or updated usually by the merchant or a designated agent of the merchant using various methods such as a web browser based administrator webpage or mobile app run on various types of computerized devices and usually connected to the server and centralized database via a network connection such as an Internet connection .

For each dynamic section see associated with a corresponding product a computer processor either located in a centralized server or alternatively located in a different ecommerce website controlled by the centralized server such as M M M will examine the product data according to a time schedule often calendar based for those scheduled times e.g. Valentine s day all occasions Christmas that these various products are available. The system will generally also examine the available inventory for these products or the various product components as well.

If the processor and software determine if that a particular product has a scheduled time of availability and if the product or its various components are also in inventory usually the inventory of a particular merchant local to either the ecommerce customer buyer or recipient then the processor and software will configure the ecommerce website or websites to display these dynamic sections.

For example in assume that a merchant has three potential products. Product 1 is a floral arrangement scheduled to appear around Valentine s Day. Product 2 is a floral arrangement that is scheduled to appear at all times. Product 3 is a floral arrangement that is scheduled to appear around Christmas. Here photographs of the products are shown as and the dynamic sections that contain the product data associated with these products are shown as . Note that these dynamic sections generally exist as data structures in computer memory.

Although the term dynamic section is used to help convey the underlying data transfer mechanisms that may be used note that there are alternative ways to structure this data in memory and these specific examples are not intended to be limiting.

In this example also assume that the merchant has the components of all three products here the flowers and vases for all floral arrangements in stock at all times. According to the invention the system will examine the various dynamic sections associated with each product. When the system s time calendar day is around Valentine s Day the system will determine that dynamic sections and but not should be used to construct the ecommerce website page . When the system s time calendar day is around Christmas then the system will determine that dynamic sections and but not should be used to construct a somewhat different ecommerce website page . See for a flow chart of this process.

Put alternatively at the proper schedule times and if the product is in inventory the system will use at least some data e.g. images from the dynamic sections associated with the corresponding ecommerce product on at least one web page of an ecommerce website e.g. page but otherwise not display data e.g. image from the non scheduled or out of inventory dynamic sections e.g. associated with that corresponding ecommerce product.

Note that in some embodiments involving different but cooperating merchants if merchant 1 does not have the product in inventory his website may thus not at least initially not show that product while the website of a different merchant in the system say merchant 2 M2 may show that product. However if the ecommerce customer then identifies that the recipient has an address near the location of Merchant 2 the system may in some embodiments then start to automatically display products carried by Merchant 2 on Merchant 1 s website. This optional scheme can be useful in order to encourage the customer to order the product without changing websites and with minimal extra expenditures of the customer s time and energy. Merchant 1 and 2 can work out various fee split arrangements to handle this type of situation and these fee splits can also be handled in an automated manner. Other automated methods of informing the customer that merchant 2 is carrying the desired product may also be used.

Returning to in typical use an ecommerce customer usually interacting with the website using a web browser or app run on an Internet connected computerized device will provide a product purchase request. This product purchase request will usually include a product identifier such as an SKU as well as a requested delivery location and delivery time. Either the server hosting the website e.g. M or often a server located on the centralized server or a combination of the two will use at least one processor e.g. computer processor microprocessor to determine a preferred shipping location for the requested product or products. The system will also examine the product delivery time and location constraints relative to the shipping location of the product s . The system will then use this information e.g. requested delivery location and delivery time relative to the product shipping location to compute product delivery surcharges for the product s . The system will also automatically display the product delivery charges and surcharges on the website as well. This way the ecommerce customer can make informed tradeoffs between cost of the product and the impact of various delivery locations and times on shipping costs before completing the purchase. A flow chart of this part of the process is shown in .

Thus when the ecommerce customer purchases the product using the ecommerce website e.g. M the system can use at least one processor which may be located on or M or both to record the sale the product s the product shipping location changes in product inventory data at the product shipping location as well as requested product delivery time and requested delivery location. In a preferred embodiment this information will be stored in the centralized database .

The system will also generally use at least one processor which again may be located on either the centralized servers or on other ecommerce web servers such as M to transmit notification of product sale to the ecommerce customer. Additionally notice of the sale along with the other relevant information such as shipping information will also be transmitted to at least one computerized device associated with distribution of product from the product shipping location. Again using as an example if merchant 1 is shipping the product to recipient and the computerized devices are M1 s computerized devices then the notice of sale and shipping information can be transmitted to or .

Thus in essence many of the invention s methods are as previously taught in parent provisional application 61 807 214 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. As before a main part of the invention s methods may be implemented by ecommerce web server software running on a cloud service and a central database comprised of one or more internet connected web servers. The invention software may comprise website software and apps a rules engine and a multi vendor product database . Customers e.g. buyers can interact with the invention s ecommerce system through various methods including using web browsers running on various standard computerized devices connected to the server cloud service via the internet and standard smartphone or tablet computer apps running on standard smartphones and tablets e.g. iPhone Android devices etc. and connected to the cloud service via a wireless interface and usually also via the internet as well.

Merchants will usually also connect to the cloud service via either standard web browsers or apps running on standard internet connected computerized devices . Often specialized web pages provided by cloud service that provide an administrator panel control panel or interface for the merchant. As will be discussed the invention also provides a method by which merchants can also quickly within a few minutes upload photos and descriptions of new products and add them to their ecommerce sites using apps running on standard smartphones or tablet computers .

By either login event assuming that the customer is interested in using the system to purchase a gift the customer can enter in the gift recipient s name and address .

In normal use often the customer is working with a local merchant originating merchant website to complete the gift. However in the event that the gift recipient is too far away then the merchant in turn may forward the gift information to a remote merchant who will then complete the transaction. Alternatively and often in the case where a suitable local merchant is not available the system may allow the user to directly select the remote merchant. In yet another embodiment shown in the system may automatically determine a suitable remote merchant M2 and automatically load the remote merchant s product data shipping data and other information and display it on the website without forcing the ecommerce customer to switch to the remote merchant s website.

Thus there are various alternatives to handle out of area deliveries. The customer may use the invention s server or cloud based service to manually request that the system find various preferred merchants within a certain radius of the recipient s address or this can be done automatically. The system can then provide the customer with information pertaining one or more various participating merchants within this geographic area. The buyer can then select products of interest and use the system s checkout function to purchase the product.

Put alternatively as previously discussed in some embodiments the system may handle a plurality of cooperating merchants here exemplified again by merchant 1 and merchant 2 in each carrying at least some common products or commonly configurable products e.g. .

In these embodiments the system may be configured to transmit product purchase requests received from a first ecommerce website M under first merchant control by a first merchant merchant 1 to a second ecommerce website M under second merchant control by a second merchant merchant 2 . Generally this second ecommerce website M will be oriented or run by a merchant who serves a geographic area closer to the requested recipient delivery location than the geographic area served by the merchant that runs the first ecommerce website M .

Since both merchants are fully participating in the system each can be assumed to have previously uploaded the product data and product delivery time and location constraints for their respective locations to the centralized database .

Thus the system can use the product data and product time and delivery constraints uploaded by the second merchant along with the product s requested delivery time and location and compute the second merchant s price and product delivery charges and surcharges. The system can then display this second merchant Merchant 2 s price and product delivery charges and surcharges Merchant 1 s website M thus giving a potentially seamless way of working with Merchant 2. As previously discussed the fee splits for this arrangement can also be handled by the system so that Merchant 2 s portion of a payment made on the Merchant 1 website M can be transferred automatically to Merchant 2 as desired.

As shown in both in some embodiments the system can also enable the customer to optionally create customized gift cards intended to be delivered to the recipient along with the customer selected product s e.g. a bouquet of flowers with a custom gift card attached . Here the customer can for example design a gift card according to their own customized graphics uploaded images text and hand e.g. driven by the customer s mouse or finger movement on a touch sensitive screen written drawings script and lettering. This may be implemented by various computer software graphical packages and tools with gift card interface designed to be manipulated using the customer s computerized device. In one embodiment these tools may be based on methods previously discussed in copending application Ser. No. 13 441 781 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. See for more information.

When the customer then purchases the product and the associated gift card the delivery merchant can then print out this handmade customer generated card and deliver it to the recipient along with the product gift .

Upon payment processing in some embodiments the system can then send an order to the cloud server that contains the necessary information pertaining to the originating merchant remote merchant product information promotional details and the like.

Note that although it is contemplated that the bulk of the sales will be done by customers interacting with the system using web browsers and apps using their network connected computerized devices in some embodiments it is also useful to provide a point of sale interface to allow the merchant to conduct the sale as well. This can be helpful for example for when customers call or email or for customers that may be showing up in person at the merchant s store or other facility.

In a preferred embodiment this point of sale interface can also be web based either as part of the administrator control panel or as a different web interface. Here again it is often useful to have this point of sale work directly with the centralized database as well.

For such point of sale interfaces it is also useful to further provide often as part of the product data various types of product sales recommendation information that is associated with at least some of these products. Thus for example the point of sale interface can be configured to enable a merchant or authorized clerk to also provide this product sales recommendation information when the merchant is using the point of sale system. This product sales recommendation information can be short text messages such as We are short on red flowers and have a surplus of yellow flowers please recommend yellow flower arrangements or other data intended to remind or guide the merchant or clerk while operating the point of sales system. The merchant or clerk can then discuss various possibilities with the client and then enter the relevant purchase data directly into the system via the point of sale interface. Thus the point of sale interface will generally be a superset of the ecommerce customer interface in that it may also show some business proprietary or confidential information that might not normally be available to the average ecommerce customer.

To set up the system merchants will generally login to the administrator interface . This login process is shown in . shows the finder screen which is the system login page. In this example the login page is also showing a brief graphic overview of the various merchant options that the system may make available to the merchant.

Returning to in some embodiments customers e.g. may use a merchant s booking merchant s ecommerce website M to order a product for delivery outside of the merchant s here merchant 1 s service area. Here as previously discussed the system can be configured to examine the recipient address and recommend one or more other merchants such as merchant M2 that have service areas that cover the recipient s address.

In the case where these remote merchants are participating in the system then the system can automatically show the remote merchant s product data and delivery data and transmit orders directly to the other merchant s computer system. Here for example Customer s order can best be filled by merchant 2 who runs his own participating ecommerce server M . The order information can thus be transmitted automatically usually using a computer network such as the Internet between merchant 1 and merchant 2 either using network connections to the centralized server s and database or directly between their respective ecommerce servers M and M . The system can also automatically apply previously negotiated fee splits to this process so that merchant 1 receives a booking commission and merchant 2 receives its part of the fees as well.

In the event that the customer specifically elects a non participating merchant then the system can be designed with a manual order transfer process so that non participating merchants may also be handled at least with manual intervention.

The merchant can also enter in product information directly through the administration panel as desired. shows how the merchant can use the system to further edit the image video and other descriptions for a particular product. Additionally as is shown in the merchant can also enter in product pricing information and options through the administrator panel as well. The merchant can use the interface to enter in quite detailed product information as needed. For example as shown in the merchant can show the exact flowers used in a particular flower arrangement.

Calendar or schedule based automatic website updates As previously discussed the invention is based in part on the insight that for many local merchants of perishable products a large fraction of the purchases are predictable from a calendar time standpoint. This especially true when delivery is part of the purchase and when the products may be gifts. In particular many purchases are based on important secular or religious holidays such as Christmas Hanukkah New Years Valentine s Day Chinese New Year s Easter and the like.

During these times in addition to updating the website to provide various calendar or schedule specific products it is often also useful for the merchant to at least partially customize other portions of the ecommerce website for the occasion. This can be done using various banners and also various products or services related to these events. However doing this manually is very time consuming.

However because these events can be predicted in advance and have a known sequence and duration in addition to automatically updating the product mix to fit the occasion the invention can also automate other calendar based web customizations as well. This can include both function and appearance customization. Both can be done using the previously discussed schedule driven calendar. Automated schedule driven appearance customization for example can be done using rapid banner customization tools that allow the merchant to automatically update the merchant s ecommerce website to switch its appearance according to a predetermined time schedule. Thus the merchant s ecommerce website can remain automatically current throughout the year with a minimal need for updating.

By contrast most merchant ecommerce websites in use today are static. However the gift industry for example is largely based on standard occasions mother s day father s day Valentine s Day Christmas thanksgiving prom week graduation day and so on. These are typically the times when customers purchase flowers and other gifts for others and these times in turn are driven by a calendar schedule.

Thus for example a local florist knowing that prom week is coming up at a local high school may have an incentive to update the florist s web site e.g. various graphical banners on the website and the like to promote floral arrangements appropriate for a prom. Although using prior art techniques some small merchants have the time expertise and resources to do this others do not.

The invention provides a server platform upon which the merchant can easily create a calendar based rules engine where the calendar date in turn drives changes in the merchant s website. For example the merchant knowing that valentine s day falls on February 14 of every hear and that Christmas falls on December 25 of every year can design in advance ecommerce site graphics e.g. banners and optionally products for these occasions enter them into the calendar based rules engine. The rules engine will in turn automatically update the appearance of the merchant s website with graphical elements e.g. banners and optionally event specific products with no further effort on the merchant s part.

Thus in this embodiment the centralized database or other databases such as other ecommerce specific databases can also store various event specific notices such as the ecommerce site graphics text banners and the like. Additionally or alternatively the product data can also have various types of event specific product data. Thus as an example during the schedule times of product delivery e.g. Valentine s Day Christmas etc. the system s processor can also configure the website to display these various event specific notices e.g. banners other text or graphics . Generally it will be desirable to schedule these event specific notices during time when event specific products are available of course and the system may be designed to generally synchronize these products and notices. However if for some reason a merchant desires to supply Halloween products during Valentine s Day the system may also be designed to accommodate non time synchronized scheduled products and event specific notices as well.

On a functional level other functions such product pricing and delivery fees may also be time varied according to a previously entered schedule may also be done using these methods.

The invention can further provide various graphical editing tools either as previously discussed in copending application Ser. No. 13 441 781 incorporated herein by reference or other tools to allow the merchant to easily customize these banners as well. Here for example the merchant can simply use a web browser to upload a base image type in the merchant text script edit with the system s graphic editing tools as needed and create a new banner which can then be added to the merchant s ecommerce site.

Thus the invention provides a calendar schedule based engine where the calendar or other schedule can drive changes in the website on an annual basis. More than one type of calendar can be used for example in addition to the standard Gregorian calendar other calendars appropriate to the merchant s market such as lunar calendars various religious calendars and the like can also be used.

Other embodiments of the invention provide other types of features as well. Some of these other features include more precise time day of the week and location based delivery cost estimations that can more accurately compute true merchant delivery costs in advance and pass this knowledge to the customer so that the customer can make more accurate determinations as to what delivery options are most appropriate for the customer s needs and budgets.

Sophisticated delivery cost estimation engine As previously discussed the invention is also based in part on the insight that particularly with regards to local delivery often the merchant s delivery costs are highly variable depending on day time of day and exact geographical location of the merchant and the recipient. Prior art ecommerce services do not sufficiently keep track of such costs with the results that for example for the florist industry a florist that has had to accept an order with an unrealistically low delivery cost may be tempted to at least partially recoup the extra delivery costs by substituting a cheaper product such as a less expensive bouquet to the mutual dissatisfaction of everyone. The invention further provides a high level of customization that allows the merchant to precisely dial in these time and location variable delivery costs and factor these costs in for the purchaser so that the purchaser can make intelligent purchasing decisions that reduce the incentive make up for unrealistic delivery costs by substituting lower quality products.

Such a feature can be important because local merchants who also deliver their products have to contend with many different issues. Although prior art systems often based delivery fees on merely the distance traveled in fact the problems are more complex than this. For example in addition to distance location and time of day are also major factors in delivery expenses. For example the time required to deliver a product in a city can vary greatly depending on if it is rush hour or not.

As another example if a florist gets an order and gets a 10 delivery fee to deliver to downtown San Francisco in the financial district at 10 00 AM the florist will usually have to send two people in a car. One person drives the car and circles around the block while the other delivers the flowers. So the merchant will end up spending 30 40 for this 10 delivery fee. So on a transaction basis using prior art methods the florist will lose money on the deal unless the florist substitutes a lower cost and inferior product to at least partially recoup the delivery fee losses.

To better cope with issues like this the invention can allow the merchant to designate certain geographic areas and times as being extra fee cases. Further the invention s delivery fee determination algorithms can also take into account other factors such as fluctuations in gas prices merchant s expected overall profit margin on the deal distance location and the like to more realistically calculate true delivery costs and make this information available to the purchaser at the time of purchase. This way for example a purchaser may decide that rather than paying a huge amount to deliver flowers to a recipient located in the San Francisco financial district during rush hour the recipient might rather send a fancier bouquet of flowers to the recipient s suburban home address at some time other than rush hour. By exposing true costs on the merchant s ecommerce website more intelligent decisions can be made and overall satisfaction of all parties involved can be improved.

Rapid addition of new products to the ecommerce site using smartphones and ecommerce assistance apps As previously discussed the invention is also based in part on the insight that many local merchants are creative and innovative individuals who often have both the desire and ability to come up with various creative variations on otherwise standard products. However due to the cumbersome nature of present day ecommerce systems the burden on the local merchant to customize the merchant s website to adequately showcase what otherwise might be a spontaneous creation tends to inhibit this creativity. For example again using the floral industry as an example a local florist may come up with a creative and cost effective new floral arrangement in a few minutes but if the burden of advertising the new floral arrangement on the florist s ecommerce website is hours of work then that new floral arrangement will never see the light of day. In another embodiment the invention utilizes modern smartphone or mobile computerized tablet technology to provide easy to use apps that in conjunction with the invention s calendar oriented server based platform allow such a merchant to create a new product listing complete with photographs in a matter of a few minutes.

Easy formation of ecommerce networks with other participating merchants As previously discussed the invention is also based in part on the insight that local merchants often need to cooperate either with other local merchants or artisans or with more distant merchants and artisans. For example a local florist and a local baker may find it advantageous to cross promote each other s products and services on each other s websites so that for example a purchaser who wishes to send a gift of flowers could also have a cake delivered at the same time and vice versa. Additionally again using the floral industry as an example more distant florists may wish to join forces to form their own network of connected floral services that can operate with little or no additional overhead i.e. little or no middleman fees . Such low cost networks of otherwise local merchants can often operate quite efficiently due to the lack of middleman fees. At the same time by joining forces a merchant such as a florist in one area of the country can send business to another merchant i.e. another florist in another area of the country pocket a decent commission for this yet without middleman fees enough money remains that the distant merchant can still provide a high quality requested product at a satisfactory profit margin as well. In another embodiment the invention also provides an easy to implement system and method to allow formation of such cooperative networks. As a result everyone purchaser first merchant second merchant and recipient is more likely to be satisfied due to the high efficiency and lack of middleman costs of the system.

Thus in another embodiment of the invention the invention s internet based server platform is designed to allow merchants to easily form networks that allow them to automatically transfer orders to other preferred networks without paying any additional costs or overhead. The system may additionally implement a backup order system to non preferred merchants using conventional fax email phone or SMS messages as well.

To elaborate for the gifts industry often customers wish to contact a local merchant and have the local merchant in turn work with a more distant affiliate merchant to deliver gifts for example in a distant city and country. Here the cost structures should be appreciated. To do this the local merchant will desire to have some commission and of course the distant merchant who will also wish to make a decent profit after delivery charges are factored in will also desire to make a profit. Any additional funding drain from the system for example to a web based middle man service will end up decreasing merchant profit or decreasing the value of the gift. Thus in another embodiment of the invention the invention allows participating merchants to set up their own zero or at least low transaction fee network in which merchants can accept orders from customers and relay the order to other more appropriately located merchants with the assurance that the order will be carried out appropriately and that the profit margins and quality of the gift will not suffer.

The invention s sell my product SMP option also allows non merchant artisans who may produce complementary products but who do not wish to sell them directly to the public to also network in with willing merchant and display the artisan s products as well even though the artisan does not have its own merchant website or store.

In addition to allowing groups of like but geographically distant merchants form networks the system also allows different but complementary and geographically close merchants to form useful ecommerce networks as well. A good example is shown in which shows a merchant website showing cross promotions from other local but complementary merchants. In the example the merchant who is a florist is showing complementary services from local ribbons balloons stuffed bear and bakery merchants. None of these other local merchants compete with the florist but all sell mutually complementary products which are often sold together. The invention allows such related merchants to also form useful networks as well.

In some embodiments entire networks of such artisans can use the inventions to form their own associations and market through a virtual merchant. Here the virtual merchant can be for example an art or wine festival that has registered on the invention s website as a merchant. This can allow for example for aggregations of local artists e.g. painters and sculptors and the like to group together with local merchants as desired and easily promote ongoing virtual art fairs and the like.

No purchaser effort promotional code system The invention is further based on the insight that prior art mechanisms of providing promotional codes for purchases are too cumbersome. According to prior art if a company such as Intel received a group promotional code for a discount off of purchases the employees of the company would have to obtain the promotional code and enter it in to receive discounts. However according to the invention s improved methods the invention s ecommerce web server can optionally link promotions with the URL or email address from which the product purchase had originated. The system can then use the product purchase URL or email address to automatically assign promotional discounts thus reducing purchaser effort. These promotional discounts may either be discounts on product price discounts on shipping costs or both. These promotional discounts may also be limited by various constraints such expiring after a preset number of products and the like.

Recipient delivery and gift customization The invention is also based in part on the insight that although many such local merchant ecommerce based purchases will be for gifts for others often such gifts need not be surprise gifts. When such gifts are not surprise gifts it can often be further desirable to give the gift recipient at least some advance notice of the gift as well as at least some ability to modify the time that the gift arrives and even potentially modify the nature of the gift. Thus for example a recipient of flowers may be able to redirect the time or day of arrival to a more appropriate time or day of arrival thus ensuring that the flowers arrive when the recipient is not on vacation. Alternatively a recipient of a gift for a first flavor or type of cake might modify the cake to a more preferred type or flavor. In another embodiment the invention also provides for such an ability to notify the recipient electronically and to allow at least partial modification of the gift by for example going to the local merchant s website and selecting various alternative delivery or gift type options.

Easy customer gift card customization As previously discussed the invention is further based on the insight that at least with regards to gifts often the gift recipient values the thought i.e. affection good intentions behind the gift as much or more than the gift itself. However present industry practice of only providing standardized gift card designs somewhat defeats this purpose.

The invention further provides an easy to use user interface that allows the purchaser of the gift to custom design the art behind the gift cards delivered with the gifts thus further providing evidence of the purchasers thought behind the gift to the recipient and further enhancing the mutual satisfaction of both the gift giver and recipient. See for further discussion.

The merchant can additionally upsell this function for an extra fee i.e. 5.00 and make more money this way as well. This adds value.

As previously discussed in some embodiments the invention allows the customer to specify if the gift for the recipient is to be a surprise gift or not. In the case where the gift is not a surprise gift the system allows the recipient to modify the gift or delivery schedule. Here the system can send the recipient gets an email link notifying the recipient of the gift and allowing the recipient to modify the delivery arrangement within the price range and delivery date.

In other embodiments the system can also enable multiple customers to pool their funds and enable group purchases. Here the system allows an initiating customer to specify the initial order and also invite other participants to contribute as well. As more contribute the size or cost of the gift can increase for example a more elaborate floral arrangement can be automatically ordered and scaled according to the total amount of contributions.

In another embodiment of the invention various smartphone or tablet apps which can be fully customized to integrate the previously discussed Sell My Product SMP functionality has also been developed. The flow and functionality of such smartphone apps are essentially identical to the previously discussed web applications above.

Sequencing and ordering of categories of products for display on the web and smartphone apps The order in which various products are displayed in the web browser implemented version or smartphone implemented version of the invention can be done by various methods. In one preferred method this sequencing can be done by implementing visual drag and drop functionality. Alternatively the sequencing may be done by other methods such as inputting numeric sequence numbers alphabetically by price by category and the like.

The e commerce platform may be a cloud based platform with associated mobile Apps. Important features can include 1 a cloud based website and product detail image storage system with universal mobile device integration 2 a photo grabber that auto loads images with associated information to your website and mobile app anywhere anytime 3 an order transmission module that allows member merchants to sell another merchant s products at that merchant s prices and delivery fees 4 a greeting cards module customizable with consumer s image message signature etc. 5 an automated funds transfer module for credit card payments and commission settlement 6 an administrative panel accessible anywhere anytime using any web connected device 

The system can additionally provide other features and functions including a cloud hosted system with intrinsic security PCI credit card compliance and redundant data storage and an ability to capture and upload new images or use existing images with the options for sharing with other members.

In some embodiments the entire platform may be based on a core central database that drives all channels of commerce. The invention can include various main modules such as 

1. Network Module Merchants who populate the central database with products. This can include an administration panel that merchants can use to manage the look and feel of web sites. Alternatively or additionally the administration panel and various mobile Apps can manage all aspects of product placement and pricing. 2. The system can also include WebService REST API with Location based technology. This type of API is used by websites mobile Apps and Point of Sale software systems. This can be optionally used in conjunction with merchant oriented mobiles apps such as an image upload product upload app that will be discussed shortly and Point of Sale apps for the merchant s in store use the system can also make use of other consumer facing mobile apps such as gift apps. Data obtained with this location based API can also be very useful to store along with product purchase data for subsequent various sales tracking and market research activities.

The system can also include other modules such as a Sell My Products module Custom Greeting Cards module Order transfer module and the like.

As previously discussed an additional feature of the invention is its Merchant Network. Additionally in some embodiments merchants may register for accounts at an administration site. The administration site may provide a control panel or dashboard that allows complete configuration and management of the website and smart phone Apps.

In general as previously discussed the system s administration panel can be used to manage the merchant s products promotion and coupons. Any changes or edits made at the panel will be reflected on the website. For example the merchant can also add remove products and rename categories for special seasonal events. The merchant can thus manage many aspects of the business from setting delivery zones to managing same day delivery.

As previously discussed the system settings function to allow the merchant to upload the merchant s logo set delivery zones prices and payment information. Other functions include setting the merchant s Point of Sale POS software options. Merchant orders can be delivered by email fax or directly to a POS partner. The merchant can also select various preferred merchant partners to facilitate affiliate sales through the system s Sell My Products module and also transfer orders received to other merchants who are members registered on the network

Other functions include options to setup merchant delivery coverage areas zip codes geographic regions and the like. The system allows merchants to manage web site banners promo codes delivery schedules and pricing. Many of these settings and configurations can be further based on the merchant s business calendar and schedule.

Additionally as previously discussed the system allows the merchant to set up a network of preferred partner merchants. Once these are set up the merchant and system may then transfer orders automatically using the system s Sell My Products module. The system also allows all orders received through multiple channels to be tracked including order s received using the system s Smart Phone App and the Web site App.

As previously discussed the invention further allows the merchant to review products make edits as needed at any time and the changes will be reflected on all channels. The system also allows the merchant to export the merchant s product database and set dynamic pricing based on a calendar schedule.

In some embodiments additional functions may further include an ability to sell Add on Products as well as to view and make changes to various add on accessory products. Additionally additional functions such as Quick Add which allows the merchant to search and add products to other product categories as well as to convert products from other member merchants to use on the merchant s own website app. Other functions may include 

Add Product Add a new product set prices upgrade options and upload a product image. Filter products for the mobile apps.

Sale promotions Create multiple promo codes. Automatic discounts promo codes tied to a company s domain name

Categories View and rename categories based on a calendar schedule. Categories can be turned off based on a schedule.

In some embodiments the invention may further make use of location based technology. This can take into account the buyer s location the recipient s location and the merchant s location and factor these into account in computing delivery charges. This data can also be stored along with the product sales data for subsequent sales tracking and market research purposes.

In one embodiment of such location based technology a buyer may access the website using a web browser. The system may use the buyer s IP address to compute a corresponding geographical address Geographical IP GeoIP . This can then be translated to latitude longitude coordinates and mapped to a zip code and street address. Once the street address is known the software can determine all merchants within a given mile radius thus allowing the buyer to select a merchant of interest. Alternatively a buyer may access an app using a smart phone. In this case with permission the system can use the smartphone s GPS coordinates to determine the buyer s location 

WebService API In some embodiments the system may use a comprehensive set of web service calls to support its various location based commerce schemes. These can also be used to communicate order information with payment gateways and point of sale software systems.

As previously discussed in some embodiments of the Sell My Products functionality the seller may not have its own website. Instead any merchant or service provider can upload their products or services for sale by other member merchant. The system allows the merchant to upload these products or services set pricing and set other items such as preferred commission splits.

This module may also be used to build a primary merchant s local marketplace where local merchants can be aggregated. Example can include flowers cakes party supplies etc.

Custom Gift Cards As previously discussed in some embodiments buyers can access a library of images or upload personal images and doodle directly on the image to create a custom gift card. The gift card can be printed in the recipient s location by the delivering merchant which may be a remote merchant prior to delivery of the product.

In some embodiments the gift card interface will appear only after the ecommerce customer has made a product selection but before the final purchase is done see . If the customer elects the gift card option which will often cost extra the system outputs a gift card generation interface to the ecommerce computerized device often to a web browser .

Returning to the gift card generation interface appearing on the ecommerce customer s computerized device is shown as . As can be seen this gift card generation interface is configured to allow the customer to select various gift card template images or graphic images enter text to be rendered using various text fonts as well as sketch drawings or handwriting on the card using a mouse touch sensitive interface or the like. The output from this creation process can be an electronic gift card file which can be transmitted back to either server M and or centralized server . Thus once the customer purchases the product this electronic gift card file can be transmitted to a printer associated with the product s shipping location here this is Merchant 2 s printer . This printer can them print out the actual hard copy gift card . The system can also instruct Merchant 2 for example to then bundle this card with the product and deliver both to the recipient at the same time and location. Thus for example the recipient can get a nice bouquet of flowers with an attached customized greeting card. Unlike the flowers which will quickly fade the card can last forever and will be more highly valued because it is customized.

Although various types of software may be used to create the customized greeting card as previously discussed in some embodiments the methods of commonly owned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 441 781 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference may be used.

In this embodiment gift card generation interface can be configured to load previously stored gift card template images on a remote server e.g. M thus creating an image layer and to then transmit an HTML copy of this image layer to the customer s web browser or app. There they can view this image layer and use their web browser or app to both annotate the images as well as to transmit an HTML copy of these annotations to the remote server.

The remote server can then use these annotations to create at least one annotation layer and combining this with the image layer create an annotated gift card document image. This annotated gift card document image can then be transmitted back to the customer where they can accept or modify this annotated gift card document image. Once accepted this image can then be transmitted to the printer in the form of an electronic gift card file.

Alternatively in some embodiments either instead of or in addition to printing out a physical hard copy of the gift card the system can also send an electronic version of the gift card to the recipient or other individuals for example in the form of email.

Order transfer module Merchants can view orders received and selective transfer them by email fax or electronically to another merchant globally as long as the other merchant are a member. The transfer protocol can also support a time based threshold to facilitate acceptance or rejection.

In the modern world where customers do large amounts searching for products using search engines such as Google Bing and the like local merchants often find themselves in an intense if hidden value for online presence and good search engine ranking. To facilitate this merchants often acquire multiple website domains e.g. flowerstuff.com flowerstuff.net flowerstuff.org myflowerstuff.com localflowerstuff.com etc. and then have these domains forwarded to the merchant s main ecommerce website. Search engines however are aware of this trick and are designed to ignore such domain forwarding.

In some embodiments of the invention the system may also be design to accommodate a plurality of commonly controlled e.g. all owned by the same merchant websites such as FIG. websites servers Mand M . These different but commonly controlled ecommerce websites will generally have a plurality of commonly controlled URL but generally at least some of these commonly controlled websites will be focused serving on different geographical regions or other different types of local groups. For example Merchant M may focus website M on serving a first town and website Mon serving a neighboring town only a few miles away also within his geographic service area . An example of this embodiment is shown in more detail in .

In this embodiment the centralized database can also store geographic region or other type customized data for at least some of these websites e.g. commonly controlled ecommerce websites focused on different geographic regions . The geographic region customized data can be as simple data with location specific names and graphics e.g. Milpitas Flowers Fremont Flowers . The system may also be configured so that this geographic region or other type customized data may be further managed from a web browser based administrator webpage often the same administrator web page used to administer other system functions .

Thus instead of just producing one website composed of various dynamic sections the system may be configured to produce multiple websites e.g. M M composed of the same various dynamic sections as before but then additionally customized by the geographic region or other type customized data. Thus an ecommerce customer from the California city of Milpitas might contact website M say Milpitasflowers.com and due to the geographic region customization data receive a Milpitas customized website. By contrast an ecommerce customer from the nearby city of Fremont might contact website M and again due to the geographic region customization data receive a Fremont customized website. However both websites would be controlled by the same merchant and be served by the same merchant M1 . After the initial geographic customization was done this would require almost no effort on the merchant s part replicate one dynamic website with automated customization to become multiple websites.

However the search engines instead of seeing a redirected website will in this example see two independent dynamic but region customized websites and thus tend to rank both websites higher in the search engine results. This search engine optimization process may be further facilitated by exposing at least some of this geographic region or other type customized data to the search engines using schemas recognized by said search engines. Useful search engine schemas may include microdata tags first introduced in HTML5. These may follow schema.org formats or other formats as desired.

Note again that the geographic automatic localization is intended to be a specific example and is not otherwise intended to be limiting. Websites could just as easily be customized to appeal to young or old customers left handed or right handed customers customers who belong to various special interest groups and the like. Any automatic customization scheme is contemplated.

In some embodiments the system may also be configured to allow a merchant to automatically post updates such as the introduction of new products to various online social networks such as Facebook twitter Pinterest and the like. In this embodiment often the centralized database will store links to various social networks of interest as well as the merchant s login information to the various social networks of interest.

In this embodiment depending on system settings when the merchant uploads a change to the merchant s product data either the centralized server or individual merchant ecommerce servers e.g. M can automatically transmit information pertaining to these product changes to the various selected social network websites. Additionally these postings can also be calendar schedule driven so that the merchant can plan and schedule a variety of different postings ahead of time.

