---

title: System, method, and computer program for managing security in a network function virtualization (NFV) based communication network
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for providing security in a Network Function Virtualization based (NFV-based) communication network. In operation, a security attack is identified. Additionally, a first hardware unit attacked by the security attack is identified. Further, a hardware unit in which to initiate a security defense software program is identified. Moreover, the security defense software program is initiated in the identified hardware unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460286&OS=09460286&RS=09460286
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 09460286
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20141216
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 918 597 filed Dec. 19 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 941 380 filed Feb. 18 2014 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 981 116 filed Apr. 17 2014 U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 026 508 filed Jul. 18 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 027 709 filed Jul. 22 2014 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to telecommunications and or data communications and more particularly to network function virtualization NFV of telecommunications networks.

Network Function Virtualization is a term or a name of a proposed architecture of telecom services as published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI in a series of documents available from the ETSI website. NFV uses generic hardware platform and software adapted for the generic hardware platform. Thus NFV creates a network much more flexible and dynamic than a legacy communication network. In NFV based networks a Virtual Network Function VNF decouples the software implementation of the network function from the infrastructure resources it runs on by virtualization. A network service is based on one or more VNFs and or Physical Network Functions PNFs their interconnections and chaining definitions. The VNFs can be executed on almost any generic hardware processing facility. Therefore VNFs may be installed removed and moved between hardware facilities much more easily less costly and thus more frequently.

The flexibility of the NFV based network enhances the means available for optimizing the network s capacity and performance. However current techniques for providing network security in such networks are limited.

A system method and computer program product are provided for providing security in a Network Function Virtualization based NFV based communication network. In operation a security attack is identified. Additionally a first hardware unit attacked by the security attack is identified. Further a hardware unit in which to initiate a security defense software program is identified. Moreover the security defense software program is initiated in the identified hardware unit.

In operation a security attack is identified. See operation . The security attack may include any type of security attack.

Additionally a first hardware unit attacked by the security attack is identified. See operation . Further a hardware unit in which to initiate a security defense software program is identified. See operation .

Moreover the security defense software program is initiated in the identified hardware unit. See operation . In one embodiment the identified hardware unit in which to implement the security defense software program may include the first hardware unit. In another embodiment the identified hardware unit to implement the security defense software program may include an alternative hardware unit.

In one embodiment the method may include identifying a second hardware unit operative to replace the first hardware unit migrating functionality of the first hardware unit to the second hardware unit and initiating the security defense software program in the first hardware unit. In this case the first hardware unit may be cleansed. Additionally the functionality of the first hardware unit may be migrated from the second hardware unit back to the first hardware unit.

Further in one embodiment the method may include identifying a second hardware unit originating the security attack identifying a third hardware unit communicatively located between the first hardware unit and the second hardware unit and initiating a security defense software program in the third hardware unit. In this case the method may further comprise initiating the security defense software program in the third hardware unit where the third hardware unit is physically located as close as possible to the second hardware unit. Furthermore the security defense software program may be initiated in a plurality of the third hardware units to reduce load on each of the third hardware units.

Still yet the method may further include setting a load threshold measuring load in the third hardware unit if the measurement of load in the third hardware unit is greater than the load threshold identifying a fourth hardware unit communicatively located between the first hardware unit and the second hardware unit and initiating a security defense software program in the fourth hardware units to reduce load on the third hardware unit.

In the context of the present description the terms network and communication network refer to the hardware and software connecting one or more communication elements including wireline networks wireless networks and or combinations thereof.

Further a hardware unit may include any computing machine. The term computing machine relates to any type or combination of computing devices or computing related units including but not limited to a processing device a memory device a storage device and or a communication device.

The terms network function virtualization NFV and virtual network function NFV are described in a series of documents published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI and available from the ETSI website. The term virtual network function or feature VNF refers to a particular implementation of a function a feature or a service provided by the network internally within the network or externally to a customer subscriber end user a terminal or a server. A VNF may include the software program implementation of the function or feature or service. The term VNF instance VNF I refers to a particular process or task executing the VNF program by a particular virtual machine or processor or computing facility and or used by a particular customer or subscriber end user terminal or server etc. .

The term service refers to any type of use such as a use case that a NFV based communication network may offer or provide to one or more communication elements. A service may include switching data or content between any number of elements providing content from a server to a communication element or between servers securing and protecting communication and content processing content provided by the customer or by a third party providing backup and redundancy etc. A service may be using partial functionality of a VNF or may include one or more VNFs and or one or more VNF instances forming a service sub network or interconnection model . In the context of the present description the term chain may refer to such service sub network such as a particular plurality of VNFs and or VNF instances associated with a particular service type or a service instance.

The term deployment when referring to hardware elements including processing elements memory elements storage elements connectivity communication elements etc. refer to the configuration or topology of these hardware elements creating the NFV based network. The term deployment when referring to software elements such a VNFs and VNF instances refers to the association between such software elements and hardware elements.

The term deployment optimizations refers to association of software and hardware elements in a manner that satisfies a particular set of requirements and or rules such as load related and performance related requirements or a manner that makes a better use of a particular hardware deployment such as by reducing operational cost.

The terms service deployment optimization or service optimization or chain optimization refer to optimizing the deployment of a service chain i.e. optimizing the deployment of one or more VNF instances making a particular service. The terms chain optimization and service optimization may thus be used interchangeably.

The term session refers to a communication connection between two or more entities that persists for a period of time during which data may be exchanged there between. A session may be implemented and managed by a session layer in the corresponding network protocol. The term session may include a network session and a logical session. The network session may be associated with the devices used to communicate while the logical session may be associated with the communicating parties users and may persist regardless of the communication means that the parties are using.

The term service continuity includes and applies to the terms session continuity and streaming continuity . Streaming refers to streaming media session or service such as sound including voice video multimedia animation etc. The term service usually applies to a group of VNFs or the functionality provided by the group of VNFs but may also apply to a single VNF or the functionality provided by the VNF . The term continuity indicates that the session or the service is not interrupted or that an interruption is short enough that a user is not aware of such interruption or that the interruption does not cause any loss of data or that the loss is handled in acceptable manner e.g. a few packets of speech lost but the conversation can continue etc. .

The term availability or service availability refers to a level of the service or a characteristic of the service in which the service provider should provide the service albeit possible hardware or software faults. For example the service provider may obligate to the customer to provide a particular level of processing power communication features such as bandwidth latency and jitter database consistency etc. Such level or characteristic of the service should be available to the customer even when a hardware component or a software component providing the service do not function properly. Providing availability may therefore require additional resources such as backup resources and or mirroring. Hence availability may also refer to the terms fault recovery and redundancy .

The term fault recovery refers to the process of recovering one or more of the network s services functions and features after a fault whether caused by a hardware malfunction a system crash a software bug or a security breech or fault. A hardware malfunction includes but is not limited to any type of inadequate performance associated with for example power supply processing units memory storage transmission line etc. The term fault recovery also applies to recovering the functionality of one or more VNFs or VNF instances with respect to any of the above. The terms security breech or security fault may be used interchangeably.

The term redundancy refers to any type of component of the network that is fully or partly duplicated provided in standby mode or otherwise available to replace another component of the network when that other component stops functioning properly or otherwise indicates some kind of fault. Redundancy may apply but is not limited to hardware software data and or content.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

The principles and operation of a system method and computer program product for planning preparing and managing security in NFV based networks according to various embodiments may be further understood with reference to the following drawings and accompanying description.

As shown in at least one NFV based network is provided. The NFV based communication network includes an NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O module and a security management module according to one embodiment.

In the context of the present network architecture the NFV based network may take any form including but not limited to a telecommunications network a local area network LAN a wireless network a wide area network WAN such as the Internet peer to peer network cable network etc. While only one network is shown it should be understood that two or more similar or different NFV based networks may be provided.

The NFV based network may include one or more computation facilities each including one or more hardware units and being interconnected by communication links to form the NFV based network . At least one of the computation facilities may include the NFV management system . The NFV management system may include the NFV O module and the security management module .

The NFV O module may be executed by one or more processors or servers such as computation facilities of the NFV based network . The NFV O module may be executed as an NFV O instance or component. The NFV O module may therefore include a plurality of NFV O instances or components as will be further explained below.

The security management module may be a part or a component of the NFV O module . However the security management module the NFV O module and the NFV management system may be separate software programs provided by different vendors. In one embodiment the NFV based network may even have a plurality of any of the NFV management systems the NFV O modules and or the security management module .

A plurality of devices are communicatively coupled to the NFV based network . For example a server computer and a computer or terminal may be coupled to the NFV based network for communication purposes. Such end user computer or terminal may include a desktop computer a lap top computer a tablet computer and or any other type of logic or data processing device. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the NFV based network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television e.g. cable aerial mobile or satellite television etc. 2 etc. These devices may be owned and or operated by end users subscribers and or customers of the NFV based network . Others of the devices such as administration station may be owned and or operated by the operator of the NFV based network .

A network administrator may supervise at least some aspects of the operation of the NFV based network by controlling an NFV infrastructure including the NFV management system the NFV O and the security management module .

In one embodiment the hardware unit may represent a computing facility of or a part of a computing facility . The hardware unit may include a computing machine. The term computing machine relates to any type or combination of computing devices or computing related units including but not limited to a processing device a memory device a storage device and or a communication device.

The hardware unit may therefore be a network server and the computing facility may be a plurality of network servers or a data center including cloud based infrastructure. As an option the hardware unit may be implemented in the context of any of the devices of the NFV based network of and or and in any desired communication environment.

Each hardware unit or computing machine computing device computing related unit and or hardware component etc. including each communication link between such hardware units may be associated with one or more performance type and a respective performance rating or value where the hardware unit and or communication link is operative to provide the performance value. Performance types are for example processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power cooling bandwidth bitrate latency jitter bit error rate and packet loss etc. Virtual machines may run on top of the hardware unit and a VNF may be run on one or more of such virtual machines.

The hardware unit may be operative to provide computing infrastructure and resources for any type and or instance of software component executed within the NFV based network of . In this regard the hardware unit may be operative to process any of the processes described herein including but not limited to any NFV related software component and or process. The hardware unit is operative to process virtual network functions VNFs VNF instances network function virtualization orchestration NFV O software modules and functions data center management software and or cloud management systems CMS etc.

In various embodiments the hardware unit may include at least one processor unit one or more memory units e.g. random access memory RAM a non volatile memory such as a Flash memory etc. one or more storage units e.g. including a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. one or more communication units one or more graphic processors and displays and one or more communication buses connecting the various units devices.

The hardware unit may also include one or more computer programs or computer control logic algorithms which may be stored in any of the memory units and or storage units . Such computer programs when executed enable the hardware unit to perform various functions e.g. as set forth in the context of etc. . The memory units and or the storage units and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

It is appreciated that computer program may include any of the NFV management system the NFV O and or the security management module of .

In one embodiment the NFV management system may include an NFV O module . The NFV management system may include one or more NFV O modules . In various embodiments each of the NFV O modules may include orchestration and workflow management that is responsible for managing i.e. orchestrating and executing all NFV O processes including inbound and or outbound communication and interfaces.

The NFV management system may include a deployment optimization module that enables a user to devise automatic mechanisms for network optimizations. The deployment optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize the distribution of VNFs and their VNF instances in real time or near real time by migrating VNFs and VNF instances e.g. VNF instances of etc. between hardware units e.g. hardware units of etc. .

More information regarding possible processes and or embodiments for performing optimization of VNF deployment as may be performed by deployment optimization module may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 941 380 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Hierarchy and Optimization In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 719 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Hierarchy and Optimization In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The NFV management system may also include a chain optimization module . The chain optimization module may be a part of deployment optimization module and may enable a user to devise automatic mechanisms for optimizing the deployment of chains or groups of VNFs and VNF instances. A service provided by an NFV based network is typically made of a particular chain or group of particular VNFs and their respective VNF instances. The chain optimization module optimizes the deployment of chains or groups of services between hardware units according to the requirements and specifications associated with and or adapted to the particular service or chain or a group.

The chain optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize in real time the operation of chains or groups of the VNFs and their VNF instances by re planning their distribution among hardware units and optionally also by migrating the VNFs and associated VNF instances between hardware units.

More information regarding possible processes and or embodiments for performing migration of a group of VNFs and or VNF instances chain migration such as by deployment optimization module may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 026 512 titled System Method And Computer Program For Optimizing a Chain of Virtual Network Functions In A Network Based On Function Virtualization and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 728 titled System Method And Computer Program For Optimizing a Chain of Virtual Network Functions In A Network Based On Function Virtualization NFV which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The NFV management system may also include a service fulfillment module that manages service and resource e.g. VNF instance lifecycle activities as part of the process and orchestration activities. This may include on boarding initiation e.g. instantiation installation and configuration scaling termination software update e.g. of a running VNF etc. test environment and or rollback procedure. Additionally the service fulfillment module may also provide decomposition of an order to multiple network services and the activation of such network service as a single VNF instance or as a chain of VNF instances.

Order decomposition includes translating business orders into a network oriented service implementation plan. For example a business order may be decomposed into a plurality of functions some of which may be provided by different software programs or modules e.g. such as various VNFs instantiated as a plurality of VNF instances across one or more data centers. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may consult the deployment optimization module for the best deployment option to customer order in a given network and resource condition. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may then initiate the service including all its components. Order decomposition may be performed in several locations across an NFV O hierarchy. For example initial decomposition may be performed in the root of the NFV O and then further decomposition may be performed in the relevant data centers.

In one embodiment an activation and provisioning module may provide the plan for activation and provisioning of the service to the orchestration and workflow management . The activation and provisioning module may also provide feedback on fulfillment status to an upper layer. This upper layer may include the business support services BSS .

The NFV management system may also include an assurance module and a service management module capable of gathering real time data on network elements status and creating a consolidated view of services and network health. The assurance module includes assurance functionality and may interact with the service management module to perform assurance related lifecycle management procedures. Lifecycle management can be also triggered by other modules policies manual intervention or from the VNFs themselves etc. The assurance module and the service management module may also trigger events associated with lifecycle management and faults. The assurance module and the service management module may monitor the health of the network and may execute fault recovery activities.

The assurance module and the service management module provide the ability to monitor services status and performance according to the required criteria. The assurance module and the service management module may also interact with the network infrastructure e.g. including computing storage and networking etc. to receive the required information analyze the information and act upon each incident according to the defined policy. The assurance module and the service management module are able to interact with analytics to enrich a policy assurance module. Interfaces may also be provided for implementation by an external system.

The NFV management system may also include a policy management module that enables a user to define and configure offline and or real time policy for controlling VNF and service related rules. The policy management module may contain the preconfigured policies and activities as well as selection rules for the NFV O process to determine the preferred policy or activity to be performed for a particular process event. The policy management may be multi layered including vendor policy service policy and operator policy etc. The policy mechanism may trigger the suitable policy layer vendor service operator .

The NFV management system may also include an administration module that provides an overall view of the network manual lifecycle management and intervention and manual system administration and configuration. The administration module may be operable to enable a user such as an administrator e.g. administrator of etc. to manage view and operate the NFV O system. The administration module may also provide a view of the network topology and services the ability to perform specific activities such as manual lifecycle management and changing service and connectivity configuration.

The NFV management system may also include an inventory management module that maintains a distributed view of deployed services and hardware resources. Inventory catalogues may reflect the current instantiation and allocation of the resources and services within the network mapped into products and or customer entities.

The NFV management system may also include a big data analytics module that analyzes network and service data to support network decisions involving services and subscribers to improve network performance based on actual usage patterns. The big data analytics module may also generate what if scenarios to support business oriented planning processes. Additionally the big data analytics module may function to analyze and evaluate the information for various planning aspects e.g. Virtual Network Capacity Planning Data Center Capacity Planning Value based planning Cost analysis for network deployment alternatives etc. deployment and management e.g. Guided Operator Recommendations What if scenario analysis and simulation application rapid elasticity and resource usage optimization etc. and may support business oriented planning processes.

The NFV management system may also include a catalog module may include records defining various aspects of the network such as products services and resources such as hardware units and VNFs e.g. a VNF directory etc. . The catalog module may include a collection of centralized hierarchical information repositories containing resource service and product definitions with their relationship versioning and or descriptors etc. Such records may include templates enabling a user such as an administrator to define particular network components such as resources products services etc. A resource template may define resources descriptors attributes activities procedures and or connectivity etc. A service template may define a service variation from resource building blocks. A product template may define parameters of a sellable product e.g. prices rating etc. based on service composition e.g. in one embodiment this may be part of a BSS catalogue .

The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may support multiple data centers multiple CMSs and provide a centralized view across the infrastructure. The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may also support hybrid networks and services maintaining both physical and virtual resources.

The NFV management system may also include an accounting and licensing module that may be operable to record and manage network software usage data for commercial purposes including licensing accounting billing and reconciliation of services with subscribers and providers. The accounting and licensing module may manage licensing and usage of virtual network applications including the ability to support complex rating schemes based on various parameters such as CPU memory data etc. The accounting and licensing module may enable users to define the pricing of particular VNF modules and provide settlement with vendors. The accounting and licensing module may also enable the evaluation of internal costs of services provided within the network for calculating return on investment ROI .

The NFV management system may also include a fault recovery module otherwise named disaster recovery planning module or DRP etc. that enables a user to plan and manage disaster recovery procedures for the NFV O and or the entire network.

More information regarding possible processes for managing fault recovery as may be embodied by fault recovery module may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 026 508 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Fault recovery In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 726 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Fault recovery In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The NFV management system may also include a security management module that provides the authentication authorization and accounting services of application security across the network. The security management module may include for example an authentication module and function. In one embodiment the authentication module and function e.g. including identity management etc. may authenticate the identity of each user defined in the system. Each user may have a unique user identity and password. The system may support password based authentication with flexible password policy. Integration with external authentication providers may be done via additional system enhancements. The authorization module and function may support a role based access control RBAC mechanism where each user is assigned with one or more roles according to the business needs based on the least privileges concept e.g. standard or administrator roles . In one embodiment the accounting and licensing module may provide an audit of security events such as authentication or login events.

As an option the security management module may use rules to protect sensitive information. For example such rules may be used to ensure the data accessed is used for the specific purposes for which it was collected sensitive information is encrypted when in storage transit and masked truncated on display and logs and that the entire security system is deployed in the customer s intranet network i.e. behind network infrastructure measures in an independent domain etc.

Security is a major and essential issue in any communication network. An NFV based network enables much more flexible and dynamic allocation of security functions and features thus increasing the efficiency and resiliency of the network. The NFV management system and particularly the security management module are responsible for deploying security related VNFs and VNF instances managing the network s reaction to security hazards and threats as they develop and managing the network s reaction to security breaches and security faults as they occur. It is appreciated that in this respect the NFV management system and particularly the security management module performs security related tasks continuously or repeatedly.

Accordingly the security management module may be operable for identifying a security attack identifying a first hardware unit attacked by the security attack identifying a hardware unit in which to initiate a security defense software program and initiating the security defense software program in the identified hardware unit. Moreover the security management module may be operable for implementing various functionality described in the context of etc.

In one embodiment the NFV management system may further include a Secure Development Life Cycle SDLC module that ensures that security aspects are handled during a project s life cycle such as security design security testing etc.

As shown further in the NFV management system may include a service planning module . The service planning module may be used by a communication service provider CSP sales representative enterprise and or technician as part of selling engagement process with enterprise SMB customers.

The service planning module may also provide the ability to interact with catalogues customer data network and ordering systems to provide online network service proposals for the enterprise customers with ability to quote update the proposal validate the serviceability and network inventory and once done provide the service order for activation using the northbound interface.

The NFV management system may also include east west APIs that include various domains activities interfaces including an information source to a big data repository and interaction capability with a physical network system OSS .

Northbound APIs provides application programming interfaces APIs to various external software packages such as business support system BSS for service order fulfillment cancel and update activities status notification resource inventory view monitoring system assurance system service planning tool administration tool for system view and configuration and big data repository etc.

Further the southbound APIs may provide APIs for external software packages such as CMS including service and VNFs lifecycle activities receiving from the infrastructure status and monitoring information for upstream system and activities e.g. assurance an SDN Controller or other connectivity system to configure inter and intra data center connectivity an EMS to configure the VNF and a VNF for a direct configuration.

As shown in the NFV based network may include hardware units connected via transmission lines and VNFs implemented as software programs installed in hardware units . Some of the hardware units may be directly connected to a customer. The customer may be a subscriber an end user or an organization represented herein as a terminal or a server or a plurality of terminals and or servers . The NFV based network may also include a NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O and a security management module which may all represent elements described in the context of the previous figures etc. .

As shown further in several typically different VNFs may be installed in the same hardware unit . Additionally the same VNF may be installed in different hardware units .

A VNF may be executed by a processor of the hardware unit in the form of a VNF instance . Therefore a particular VNF installed in a particular hardware unit may be incarnated in e.g. initiated executed as etc. any number of VNF instances . The VNF instances may be independent of each other. Additionally each VNF instance may serve different terminals and or servers . The NFV based network connects to and between communication terminal devices that may be operated by one or more customers subscribers and or end users.

It is appreciated that a network operator may manage one or more services deployed in the customer s premises. Therefore some of the hardware units may reside within the premises of the network operator while other hardware units may reside in the customer s premises. Similarly a server such as server computer of may reside in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. Consequently when the network operator provides and or manages one or more services for a customer s terminal devices such as a server computer the NFV based network of the network operator may directly manage the VNFs providing the services and their VNF instances .

In such situation the NFV based network may manage the services irrespectively of the location of the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. In other words the NFV based network may be managing the VNFs and the VNF instances providing the services as well as the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. being co located within the same computing device e.g. the hardware unit etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises or in a commercial cloud or any other place.

A service provided by the communication network may be implemented using one or more VNFs. For example the service may be a group or a chain of interconnected VNFs. The VNFs making the group or the service may be installed and executed by a single processor by several processors on the same rack within several racks in the same data center or by processors distributed within two or more data centers. In some cases chain optimization may be employed by optimizing the deployment of a service in a communication network using network function virtualization and to optimizing the deployment of a group or a chain of virtual network functions in the NFV based network . Therefore the term chain optimization refers to the planning and or managing of the deployment of VNFs making a chain or a group of VNFs providing a particular service.

For example shows a first service including the VNFs and their respective VNF instances and and a thick line. In this example the group or chain of the VNFs making first service are connected as a chain of VNFs . However the VNFs making a service may be connected in any conceivable form such as a star tree root tree branch mesh etc. including combinations thereof. It is noted that the VNFs may be executed by two or more VNF instances such as VNF .

The deployment of the group or chain of the VNFs making the first service is therefore limited by constraints such as the capacity of the communication link bandwidth and or latency delay .

A VNF may have a list of requirements or specifications such as processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power requirements cooling requirements etc. A particular VNF instance providing a particular function e.g. to a particular customer entity etc. may have further requirements or modified requirements for example associated with a particular quality of service QoS or service level agreement SLA . Such requirements may include maximum latency or delay average latency and maximum variance latency jitter maximal allowed packet loss etc. Other requirements may include service availability redundancy backup provisions for roll back and or recovery fault tolerance and or fail safe operation etc.

A service made of a chain or a group of VNFs and their VNF instances may have a similar list of requirements or specifications covering the service as a whole. Therefore such requirements or specifications may imply affect or include requirements or specifications regarding communication links between the VNFs and or the VNF instances . Such requirements or specifications may include bandwidth latency bit error rate and or packet loss etc. Such communication requirements or specifications may further impose deployment limitations or constraints requiring particular VNFs and or VNF instances to reside in the same data center or within the same rack or even in the same computing device for example sharing memory or being executed by the same processor. Security measures may add further requirements or specifications such as co location of some of the VNFs and or the VNF instances .

In the context of the NFV based network has a hierarchical structure. There may be at least four aspects of the hierarchical structure of the NFV based network . The networking or traffic aspect refers to the arrangement of the transmission lines between the hardware units . The processing aspect refers to the arrangement of the hardware units . The software aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNFs . The operational aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNF instances .

One aspect of the optimization process in an NFV based network is that it may be based on real time needs rather than long term statistically anticipated needs. One potential limitation on network reconfiguration in NFV based networks is that network configuration does not result in a deterioration beyond acceptable level of any of the current services. The NFV deployment module e.g. module of etc. may function to enable and manage migration of services between the hardware units the VNFs and the VNF instances in real time without affecting or with a minimal effect on the availability of a service and while securing service and session continuity.

In the context of the current description the term continuous means that the deployment optimization module and or a chain optimization module e.g. the chain optimization module of etc. performs the relevant optimization task or process in run time or real time or online or on the fly or repetitively and without adversely affecting the network s functionality and its services.

Unlike a legacy network the NFV based network may have two topologies the topology of the hardware devices and the topology of the VNFs the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices . The topology of the hardware network is relatively stable while the VNF topology can be optimized in real time. Another benefit of the NFV based network is that modifying the software topology e.g. the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices is much less costly than any modification of the hardware topology. However any modification of the network has its cost including the cost of making such modification possible. Added cost may result from the need to process the modification of the topology and the re distribution of VNF instances and to maintain excess resources for such purpose.

Thus in some cases it may be desired to localize the NFV O and particularly the deployment optimization processes associated with the deployment optimization module and the chain optimization module to reduce the cost and simultaneously to secure the possibility to expand the scope of the network managed by these processes if needed.

To utilize efficiently the hierarchical structure and flexibility provided by the NFV architecture an NFV O may include process . This may include performing deployment optimization activities process executed by a deployment optimization module including continuous predictive analysis thus providing continuous analysis of customer behavior and predicting customers needs and the resulting network security requirements continuously calculating optimization of the network s NFV configuration i.e. the optimal deployment of VNF instances considering resource conversion and continuously migrating VNF instances along the network hierarchy to achieve the current or near future optimal deployment while preserving service and or session continuity.

The process may also include performing security management activities process executed by the security management module including analyzing security risks and identifying possible security faults planning recovery activities for each security fault hardware unit VNF VNF instance etc. continuously monitoring the network security status particularly regarding each of hardware unit VNF and VNF instance and initiating a recovery activity as planned upon detection of a security fault.

The process may also optionally include performing fault management activities process executed by the fault recovery module regarding faults other than security related faults including predictive maintenance and fault recovery activities.

More information regarding possible processes for managing fault recovery as may be embodied by process and or fault recovery module may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 026 508 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Fault recovery In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 726 titled System Method And Computer Program For Managing Fault recovery In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

More information regarding possible processes for managing predictive maintenance or preventive maintenance as may be embodied process may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 918 597 titled System Method And Computer Program For Preserving Service Continuity In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 716 titled System Method And Computer Program For Preserving Service Continuity In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The recovery activities include the initiation and or migration of VNF instances and particularly security related VNF instances within the network hierarchy to recover from the security fault and or improve the network performance regarding a security threat and or breach. It is appreciated that such recovery activities include recovery activities performed in customer premises equipment and software if the security of such customer premises equipment and software is managed by the network and or network operator.

It is also appreciated that the deployment optimization activities the security management activities and the fault management activities are performed continuously and concurrently thus influencing each other. For example if any of these processes changes the location of a VNF instance this change requires the other processes to adapt.

The term continuous here means that the security management module performs the relevant task or process in run time or real time or online or on the fly or repetitively and without adversely affecting the network s functionality and its services.

As shown in each of the processes and updates invokes and influences the other processes as well the results of their processing namely the deployment of VNFs and VNF instances the deployment of backup or redundancy VNFs and VNF instances as well as the plans for preventive maintenance fault recovery and security recovery.

The distributed architecture of an NFV O enables faster response to local events on one hand and improved scalability on the other hand. In a distributed NFV O architecture decision processes are performed in self contained and local decision points closer to the customer and closer to the events e.g. such as network or security faults etc. .

The hierarchy of a distributed NFV O can be viewed as a tree of two component types a core component and a leaf component . The NFV O core component can be a child of another core component and or a parent of one or more core components or leaf components . A leaf component cannot be a parent of a core component or a leaf component .

Orchestration parameters managed by a particular leaf component or core component may be reported in real time to the supervising parent core component . In addition to the supervision this continuous updating process enables the supervising component to provide backup and or support recovery processes associated with hardware and or software faults as well as security faults and or breeches.

To provide redundancy a leaf component may be supervised by two or more core components and child core components may be supervised by two or more parent core components . The orchestration parameters managed by a particular core component or leaf component may also be mirrored to the backup core components . Optionally the NFV O core components may have the same fully functional orchestration capabilities while leaf components may be limited to simple well defined and localized sub orchestration tasks and thus may provide a faster response to demands and changing load.

A cloud management system CMS is a software package managing one or more hardware units operating one or more VNFs and executing one or more VNF instances. A CMS can be managed by one or more leaf components or core components or combinations thereof. A CMS can be located in the operator s premises or in the customer s premises or partly in both.

An NFV O component such as a core components or a leaf component typically orchestrates a particular predefined territory. The territory may be one or more cloud management systems one or more services one or more customers etc. Therefore there can be an overlap between territories of different NFV O components. For example one NFV O component may orchestrate a CMS another NFV O component may orchestrate a service that is at least partly provided by the same CMS and additionally a third NFV O component may orchestrate services for a particular customer connected to that same CMS .

As shown in the deployment optimization by process the fault recovery planning by process and the security recovery planning by process are executing interactively and continuously or repetitively probably consuming processing power and other network resources. It is therefore advantageous to execute these processes namely process in a distributed manner. Distributed operation of process and its components can be provided by using a distributed architecture of NFV O as shown and described herein.

The distributed architecture of the NFV O and particularly the distributed architecture of process and its components enables faster response to local events on one hand and improved scalability on the other hand. In a distributed NFV O architecture decision processes are performed in self contained and local decision points closer to the customer and closer to the events such as network or security faults .

Therefore in cases such as a change of deployment as effected by a user such as an administrator or triggered by a fault event which may be hardware related software related or security related . The NFV O component leaf component or core component closest to the affected entity may react by invoking a relevant process such as processes and as described above with reference to process of .

It is appreciated that invoking a fault recovery process may subsequently invoke one or more fault recovery planning processes. Invoking a deployment optimization process may subsequently invoke a process of redeployment. And invoking a security management process may subsequently invoke a deployment optimization process and or a fault recovery planning processes.

If for any reason the first responder NFV O component cannot resolve the problem for example for lack of adequate or sufficient resources within the territory of the particular NFV O component the problem may be escalated above to the supervising or parent NFV O component.

The NFV O is a central component of the network as a system and thus may present a risk from a security perspective. For example an attack against the NFV O may result in a total network outage. Securing the NFV O is therefore a goal and a challenge. A distributed NFV O architecture enhances the network resilience endurance. When an attack on a particular instance of the NFV O is detected the NFV O instance may be isolated and its functionality may be transferred to one or more other NFV O instances.

Another aspect of the NFV O hierarchy is stratified granularity or resolution of the orchestration process. An NFV based network may include a very large number of hardware elements e.g. processors memory units storage units communication links etc. and an even larger number of VNFs and VNF instances. Each of the VNF instances may have a number of requirements e.g. such as processing power memory size storage size communication bandwidth latency and jitter etc. . Each of these hardware elements and software modules may produce a number of load values e.g. corresponding to their respective requirements .

All of this creates a large amount of data that should be processed continuously or repeatedly to determine possible adverse conditions e.g. a particular overload or a potential cost saving situation. Such situation may require deployment optimization e.g. the planning of a newly optimized deployment of VNF instances and redeployment e.g. implementing the optimized deployment . The NFV O hierarchy enables scalability of the redeployment optimization process by distributing the process in a hierarchical manner.

One optional aspect of hierarchical deployment optimization is that higher levels in the NFV O hierarchy processes deployment optimization in a coarser granularity or resolution while lower levels in the NFV O hierarchy processes deployment optimization in a finer granularity or resolution .

For example while a leaf component manages its part territory of the NFV based network in terms of particular hardware elements e.g. processors memory units storage units communication links etc. and software elements e.g. VNFs and VNF instances a core component may manage its part territory of the NFV based network in terms of whole subordinate child core components or leaf components it supervises. Thus such parent core component may perform deployment optimization in terms of requirements and load values applied to whole subordinate child core components or leaf components .

A customer may use the services of several telecom operators. For example the customer may be an international company operating in several countries. Such a customer usually establishes a virtual private network VPN across this plurality of telecom operators. Considering that these operators now operate NFV based networks the customer may establish a service including a plurality of VNFs where different VNFs are part of different networks. Managing such inter operator VNF chains or services requires tight coordination across different NFV based networks.

Such coordination can be implemented using various techniques. For example the coordination may be implemented by enabling tight coordination between NFV Os of the different NFV based networks. As another example the coordination may be implemented by establishing an inter network NFV O module that manages one or more inter network VNF chains or services of a particular customer.

Optionally such inter network NFV O may supervise two or more child or leaf NFV O modules each within a particular NFV based network incorporating an NFV participating in the particular VNF chain or service. It is appreciated that NFV Os of different operators may be provided by different NFV O vendors.

In a first network configuration a single NFV O module may manage the deployment of VNFs and VNF instances throughout the entire NFV based network. A deployment optimization module e.g. and a chain optimization module of the NFV O module may continuously investigate the development of loads and provide alternative deployment plans. Consequently the NFV O module may redeploy VNFs and VNF instances and reallocate network resources accordingly.

Deployment optimization is indicated when one part of the NFV based network is over loaded or approaches an overload situation while another part of NFV based network is relatively idle. The redeployment migrates some of the network entities e.g. VNFs and VNF instances from the overloaded part of NFV based network to the relatively idle part of the NFV based network to free resources where needed mostly. Therefore the deployment optimization and redeployment activities may follow the changes of load distribution.

It is appreciated that the NFV O is responsible for deploying and managing the VFNs and VNF instances providing the required security services. Particularly an instance of NFV O such as modules or of deploy and manage the VFNs and initiate VNF instances as described above. Particularly deployment optimization module security management module and fault recovery module operating within process including processes and of .

Core components and leaf components may report security events and related information up the hierarchy at all levels to enable the entire network of the distributed NFV O to gather security information and correlate the events and their data. The global knowledge of security threats is then reported down the hierarchy to child core components and leaf components to improve their ability to defend against security threats and repair damages locally. The global knowledge reported down the hierarchy to child and leaf components is typically provided as rules or as pieces of executable code typically processed by the security management module of the local core component for example as part of process of .

It is therefore appreciated that each NFV O that is each component of the NFV O hierarchy such as each core component and or leaf component of may include a security management module as well as a deployment optimization module and a chain optimization module and a fault recovery module . Thus each NFV O component of the NFV O hierarchy executes its own process as well as its processes and .

Therefore if a security event is confined to the territory e.g. part of the NFV based network of a particular NFV O component for example a leaf component then that NFV O component may take care of the security event using its internal security management module and process . If the security event crosses the border the territory of a particular NFV O component then the processing of the security event may be delegated higher in the hierarchy to a parent component that supervises the entire scope of the security event. e.g. territory or part of the NFV based network affected by the security event . The parent NFV O component may then delegate particular tasks to particular child and or leaf NFV O components down the NFV O hierarchy. For example to distribute the processing load and expedite the resolution of the security event.

It is appreciated that a particular security event may be detected and or identified and or located by one or more NFV O components of a particular hierarchy such as a geographical NFV O hierarchy a service NFV O hierarchy or a customer NFV O hierarchy. If the security event is distributed over several NFV O leaf components it may require delegating the process of detecting and or identifying and or locating the security event up and or down the hierarchy. Thereafter the resolution of the security event may be transferred to another NFV O hierarchy. For example the geographic NFV O hierarchy may detect and or identify and or locate the security event and thereafter the service NFV O hierarchy may resolve the security event.

As shown in security management module includes the following groups of modules one or more modules managing the security of the network itself one or more modules managing security services provided to customers one or more modules managing access security e.g. authentication and authorization one or more modules managing perimeter security e.g. a firewall etc. one or more modules managing system security e.g. antivirus etc. and one or more modules managing communication security e.g. encryption etc. .

Modules are typically implemented as one or more VNFs . Such VNFs are then deployed in a network hardware unit and executed as one or more VNF instances. The VNF instance or a group of VNF instances executing several VNFs provide the required security service. Alternatively the modules may be implemented as part of an NFV O a core component or a leaf component. For example modules of security management module may be related to or part of security management modules and of respectively and such modules may be implemented in each NFV O component.

For example a network system security module may provide a security service protecting the system of a particular network entity. In this example the network system security module may protect the operating systems NFV modules and VNF instances in a particular hardware unit. The network system security module is typically operating in the hardware unit as one or more VNF instances. One or more of the VNF instances may protect the network system against hacking while other VNF instances may perform procedures for recovery from security breaches when needed. In this respect a security breach can be regarded as a network failure applying mechanisms of preventive maintenance and fault recovery to security threats and breaches.

For example network communication security module may provide protection of the communication between components of the NFV based network and particularly components modules of the NFV O that is the communication affecting the network management and not the communication provided as a service . For example this may include securing NFV O related communication against hacking for example using encryption sender authentication etc. using secure NFV O communication as a means for providing and securing services such as access security perimeter security and system security and using secure NFV O communication to monitor and verify health of NFV modules operating systems and VNF instances.

In this respect the combination of VNF instances executing the network system security module and VNF instances executing the network communication security module secure the network of servers as an integrated system rather than a collection of independent units.

Similar modules VNFs and VNF instances provide security services for customers typically operating in a CMS and or in customer premises equipment.

For example customer access security module may provide access security for a particular customer. For example the customer access security module may manage the authentication and authorizations of particular employees of the particular customer and verify that any access to any VNF and or VNF instance providing service to the particular customer is authenticated and authorized.

The customer access security module provides a common access to all the applications servicing the particular customer and implemented as VNFs and or VNF instances. This common access provides a single point of access to all the applications VNFs VNF instances. Users authorized by the particular customer can use the same user ID and password to access all the applications irrespective of their embodiment as a collection or combination of VNFs and or VNF instances. Thus users of the particular customer may have a similar user experience with all the applications servicing the particular user.

As shown in the customer access security module is provided as a VNF of the NFV based network. The common access VNF is programmable to connect to any plurality of VNF based applications as required by the particular customer. The common access VNF e.g. customer access security module is also programmable to provide a user experience as perceived by the particular customer.

The common access VNF is further programmable to connect to one or more security services for authentication authorization secured communication encryption etc. The authentication and authorization server may reside in the customer s premises.

For example customer communication security module may secure the communication between VNFs and or VNF instances providing services to a particular customer. This means that communication between VNF instances is secured independently of the deployment topology of the VNFs. For example by encrypting the communication between VNF instances in a particular manner adapted to the needs of the particular customer.

The NFV O is responsible for deploying and managing the VNFs and VNF instances providing the required security services. Particularly an instance of NFV O may deploy and manage the VNFs and initiate VNF instances as described above. Particularly the deployment optimization module the security management module and the fault recovery module operating as a process.

System security requires periodical cleansing requiring closing all the applications running on the particular server i.e. hardware unit being cleansed. Therefore there is a need to migrate the applications that is the VNF instances and all the other software packages running in the particular server for the time of cleansing. Thus the NFV O periodically selects one or more servers migrates the VNF instances running on the server to other backup servers and performs cleansing.

The security cleansing process is an example of such system periodical cleansing. It is appreciated that a process such as process may also be initiated by an NFV O any time upon a detecting a relevant security event receiving a security alert or alarm identifying a security threat etc.

The cleansing process is typically implemented as one or more VNFs and executed as one or more VNF instances within the scope of a security management module of a particular NFV O possibly in coordination with a deployment optimization module and a fault recovery module operating as a process. For example the cleansing process may operate in the scope of an NFV O of a leaf component of a hierarchy. It is appreciated that the cleansing process may also operate in the scope of an NFV O of a core component of a hierarchy.

In this example an NFV O as a leaf component initiates the cleansing process within a particular CMS. It is appreciated that such cleansing process may be initiated or activated for any hardware unit managed and or supervised within the scope of the NFV based network within the network premises and or within the customer s premises.

For example a cleansing process may include scanning for and removal of malicious software such as anti virus scan of a memory module a particular storage facility or an entire computing platform e.g. a scan for malware a scan for Trojan horse software etc. .

A cleansing process may also include rebooting the system in a protected safe mode and scanning for malicious software and reformatting one or more storage units and reinstalling relevant software programs such as a VNF .

It is appreciated that such cleansing processes require extensive processing capacities and thus may adversely affect the ability of a particular processing unit to perform as planned. Thus the cleansing process may require that the VNF instances active within the processing unit are migrated elsewhere.

The cleansing process may start with step to determine a processing facility for cleansing for example a particular CMS or a particular server within a CMS. Proceeding to step the cleansing process allocates one or more backup servers adequate to receive VNF instances from the server to be cleansed. Such backup servers may be located within the same CMS or within another CMS supervised by the leaf component.

If cleansing process cannot locate an adequate backup server step within its territory the CMS units supervised by the leaf component the cleansing process sends an adequate message to a supervising parent core component step having a larger territory. In other words if the local NFV O cannot locate a backup server within its territory the process is transferred to a higher level parent NFV O.

It is appreciated that if the first leaf component reports to its parent NFV O that it failed to locate a backup resource within its territory the parent NFV O may execute the cleansing process itself within its larger territory. Alternatively the parent NFV O may instruct a second leaf component to provide an adequate resource to the first leaf component and then instruct the first leaf component to execute the cleansing process using the additional resource. It is also appreciated that if the parent NFV O also fails to locate an adequate backup resource it can further delegate the cleansing process upwards the hierarchy.

If sufficient backup servers are located the cleansing process may proceed to step migrating all VNF Instances from the server to be cleansed cleansed server to the backup server s . It is noted that the migration process does not involve moving code software program from the cleansed server to the backup server. Preferably the migration process does not involve moving data too. If needed a new VNF code may be installed in the backup server and data may be provided from a mirroring site.

When all the VNF instances are migrated step from the cleansed server to the backup server s the process may proceed to shut down all services in the cleansed server while preserving service continuity.

The process may proceed to perform server cleansing in step and thereafter if migrating back is required step migrate VNF instances back to the cleansed server and renew the services step . It is appreciated that optimization considerations such as processed by a deployment optimization process may affect the requirement to migrate back to the cleansed server.

The server cleansing step typically includes any of the following procedures cleansing VNFs cleansing storage units cleansing the operating system and or formatting the storage and installing the operating system and application software VNFs .

The VNF migrating routine applies to step of and optionally to step of . The VNF migrating routine starts with step to determine if the required VNF code exists in the backup hardware unit. If the required VNF does not exists in the backup hardware unit the VNF migrating routine of proceeds to step to install the required VNF in the backup hardware unit.

In step the VNF migrating routine determines whether the VNF in the backup hardware unit requires particular data to be able to take over and or continue the processing of the migrating VNF instance without causing a session and or service discontinuity. If such data is required it is loaded in step from the migrating VNF instance or from a mirroring facility or from a backup facility or from any other database managed by the VNF O.

The VNF migrating routine then proceeds to step to initiate in the backup hardware unit a VNF instance and configure it according to the parameters of the VNF instance of the first hardware unit. The VNF migrating routine then proceeds to step to divert all or part of the communication incoming to the VNF instance of the faulty hardware unit to the VNF instance of the backup hardware unit.

More information regarding possible processes for migrating one or more VNF instance may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 918 597 titled System Method And Computer Program For Preserving Service Continuity In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 716 titled System Method And Computer Program For Preserving Service Continuity In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

It is appreciated that the contents of these two US patent applications may form at least a part of a possible embodiment of steps and of process as described with reference to . It is appreciated that FIGS. 11 and 12 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 716 titled System Method And Computer Program For Preserving Service Continuity In A Network Function Virtualization NFV Based Communication Network as well as their respective description may be used instead of or in addition to herein.

To provide resilience of the NFV based network against hacking e.g. a security breach critical processes can require approval confirmation and or authorization from several different processes and or servers. For example a critical process may be divided between two or more VNFs and or VNF instances. The VNF instances executing the process may be executed in different hardware units. The hardware units may be managed by different NFV O instances. Hence executing the critical process requires the cooperation of several VNF instances supervised by different security management modules. The distribution of a critical process between several VNF instances within different core components or leaf component increases the security of the network and particularly the immunity of the critical process against hacking.

In one embodiment the security management module may include a network authentication module. A network entity such as a VNF instance receiving a communication data message command etc. from another network entity e.g. another VNF instance can send the received communication or a part thereof to the network authentication module for authentication. Thus the network authentication module may provide 3rd party authentication for data communicated between network entities such as VNF instances.

A receiver of a suspected communication can interrogate the network authentication module as to the authenticity of the sender of the communication as well as the particular communication. In case of a suspected breach the network authentication module reports the breach to the security management module to take action. To further enhance network resilience the network authentication module of use would be part of a security management module of a different NFV O such as a core component other than the core components or leaf components directly managing the communicating VNF instances.

Recovering from a security breach is initiated by the NFV O in response to a reported or detected security breach.

Defense migration process refers to a security process performed by a security management module to deploy and or advance the defense against a security attack in a manner that reduces the load on the network and particularly the load on the attacked entity whether internal to the network or in a customer s premises .

A security breach such as distributed denial of service DDoS is usually identified at the victim and is therefore usually confronted at the victim or very close to the victim. However the attack causing the security breach may be identified with a source and it may be much more efficient to move the protection as close as possible to the source. Alternatively the protection can be located at a central communication point hub .

For example suppose a security VNF instance within a hardware unit detects that a terminal is under a DDoS attack or any similar security related attack . A VNF instance may inform its supervising NFV O that is the security management module of the supervising core component or leaf component.

It is appreciated that the term NFV O and security management module may refer to two or more NFV O instances and their respective security management modules such as two or more core component and or leaf components of etc. It is also appreciated that defense migration process as any other process of the security management module may affect and interact with processes of an NFV deployment module and or fault recovery module.

In this case it is assumed that a single NFV O and a single security management module are managing the entire network. However if a network is managed by two or more core components or leaf components NFV O instances and corresponding security management modules then some of the steps described herein may be executed by different core components or leaf components or repeated by other core components or leaf components. Similarly the process or some of the steps described herein may be delegated up the hierarchy to a parent NFV O supervising all the elements involved. The parent NFV O may then delegate the process or some of the steps described herein down the hierarchy to one or more supervised NFV Os.

As shown in defense migration process starts in step when the security management module receives an update of a security attack e.g. a DDoS attack in progress on a particular hardware unit and or a particular VNF instance.

If the attack information received in step does not includes the IP address of a source terminal step then defense migration process locates the source or the direction from which the attack arrives step . The defense migration process proceeds to step to locate a hardware unit node closest to the source terminal.

The defense migration process then proceeds to step to instruct a security VNF instance in a hardware unit to stop the DDoS attack from the source terminal. If required the defense migration process also initiates the VNF instance in another hardware unit and if required also installs the VNF instance.

It is appreciated that this procedure also applies for a plurality of attacks and or a plurality of sources of such attacks and or a plurality of directions in which attacks are detected as may be common with DDoS and similar security hazards.

In a common DDoS attack the targeted entity is attacked from many sources which may frequently change. Therefore the defense migration process may deploy a plurality of security VNF instances throughout the network and as close as possible to the sources. Other security VNF instances may be deployed in central nodes to intercept attacks from new sources. The defense migration process repeats steps to until the attacked entity is relieved from the attack step .

The security attack DDoS attack described above is presented as an attack on a terminal device however it is appreciated that such attack can be directed on any hardware unit or software of the network with the goal of affecting the network rather than a terminal or a particular website thereof . The purpose of the DDoS attack is to cause an overload of a particular server to cause stoppage of a service provided by that server. Attacking a network node may therefore cause the stoppage of many services. Thus the importance of diverting the attack from the targeted hardware unit or software and reducing the load within the network. This defense mechanism distributes the load of processing DDoS requests among a larger number of servers being closer to the sources of the DDoS attack. Hence the importance of the plurality of core components and leaf components their hierarchical structure as well as their mesh multi supervisor structure.

If a customer is geographically distributed and connects to the network in several places the security services can be positioned respectively. The services can be centralized and all the communication may be channeled through the hub or distributed closest to the client s terminals and servers. The latter option may decrease the traffic requirements but complicates the system and its management. The consideration where to locate the service may change according to the particular service.

For example a geographically distributed customer may have a plurality of CMS and another probably larger plurality of terminals. The CMS and terminals may be grouped and a leaf component may be deployed and assigned to manage each group. A central core component may be deployed and assigned to manage the leaf components.

Optionally two central core components may be deployed and assigned to provide redundancy. Other core components may be deployed and assigned as intermediating child core components. The central core components child core components and leaf components deploy service VNF instances to provide the required services to the customer as well as security VNF instances to protect the VNF instances and the hardware units and CMS running these VNF instances .

Particularly an NFV deployment module a security management module and or fault recovery module of the respective core and leaf components deploy and manage the service VNF instances the security VNF instances backup facilities for these VNF instances as well as recovery procedures where needed. The particular location of each VNF instance service and or security is determined according to the actual usage and traffic for the particular customer based on the agreed upon QoS and SLA.

It is appreciated that VNFs and VNF instances of a geographically distributed customer may be orchestrated by the customer s network hierarchy of NFV O modules. That is to say that a hierarchy of NFV O modules particular to the customer manages the VNFs and VNF instances serving the particular customer. Accordingly the security management module of the customer s NFV O hierarchy supervises security issues threats breaches etc. associated with the particular customer as well as VNFs and VNF instances serving the customer. This enables the NFV O to expedite defensive action ahead of the actual attack on some of the VNFs and VNF instances involved.

Similarly geographically distributed service may be orchestrated by a network hierarchy of NFV O modules associated with the service particularly of a service serving a plurality of customers.

It is appreciated that the term DDoS distributed denial of service is used here as an example of a remote security attack on any hardware unit or software program whether part of NFV based Network hosted by NFV based Network or serviced by NFV based Network .

In the exemplary security related scenarios discussed below hardware unit is a data center of a first customer for example a CMS and hardware unit is a data center of a second customer for example also a CMS . However it is appreciated that both hardware unit and hardware unit may reside in the same CMS. Any or both of hardware units and can be in the network s premises or in the customer s premises or distributed partly in the network s premises and partly in the customer s premises. It is appreciated that hardware unit may not even be of a customer known to NFV based Network . It is appreciated that hardware unit may be part of another communication network and particularly another NFV based Network .

More information regarding communication between various elements may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 027 709 titled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR INTER MODULE COMMUNICATION IN A NETWORK BASED ON NETWORK FUNCTION VIRTUALIZATION NFV and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 572 729 titled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR INTER MODULE COMMUNICATION IN A NETWORK BASED ON NETWORK FUNCTION VIRTUALIZATION NFV which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

According to a first security related scenario a malicious software program has been implanted in hardware unit e.g. by a third party hostile entity . The malicious software program is now attacking hardware unit . For example the malicious software program attacks one or more VNF instances in hardware unit . For example the attack may be a DDoS attack but it can be any other type of security attack. The purpose of the DDoS attack is to load hardware unit and or the attacked VNF instances to the point that it fails or does not function properly or functions too slow.

It is appreciated that in practice there is a large plurality of malicious software programs residing in many hardware units such as software program in hardware unit attacking one or more hardware units such as hardware unit and VNF instances. For the purpose of the security related scenarios described below only one malicious software program in one hardware units i.e. software program in hardware unit is considered.

According to the first scenario a security VNF instance designated by numeral and operating in hardware unit is monitoring hardware unit for security hazards. It is appreciated that VNF instance may operate externally to hardware unit for example in hardware unit .

According to the first scenario VNF instance detects the malicious attack on hardware unit or any VNF instance associated therewith. The security VNF instance reports the attack to VNF O particularly to the immediate local core components or leaf component. The report may include details or characteristics of the attack typically including identification of the source of the attack such as IP address relating to hardware unit or a software program thereof.

As a first optional action a security VNF instance operating in hardware unit designated by numeral that monitors the incomming communication now blocks communications from the hostile IP associated with hardware unit . This action may reduce the load from the attacked VNF instance but the load on hardware unit may persist.

As a second optional action VNF O or a core component or a leaf component and or security management module may initiate one or more security VNF instances upstream. In this context the term upstream means between hardware unit and hardware unit . For example VNF O or a core component or a leaf component may initiate one or more security VNF instances designated by numeral in hardware unit or in hardware unit and . Such security VNF instances operating in hardware units and or now block communications from the hostile IP associated with hardware unit . This action may reduce the load on the attacked hardware unit both the processing load and the traffic load on transmission line designated by numeral . As many hardware units upstream are involved in blocking the malicious communications from hardware unit the less each of them is affected as well as transmission lines involved.

As a third optional action VNF O or a core component or a leaf component and or security management module may initiate one or more security VNF instances in one or more hardware units directly connected with hardware unit for example VNF instances designated by numeral of hardware unit . This action reduces the load on the network as a whole. It is appreciated that as the attack is blocked closer to the source the network congestion is reduced.

It is also appreciated that a common DDoS attach involves many attacking hardware units such as hardware unit . Therefore the implementation of the third optional action may involve many hardware units such as hardware unit . It is assumed that the third optional action may involve more hardware units such as hardware unit than the first and second optional actions. Therefore the load experienced by the network is reduced and also the load experienced by any hardware unit of network is reduced.

The customer serviced by hardware unit is probably unaware of the outbound attack from hardware unit however this hostile activity also loads hardware unit itself and its transmission lines . It is therefore beneficial for the customer serviced by hardware unit to remove the malicious software from hardware unit .

As a fourth optional action VNF O or a core component or a leaf component and or security management module may initiate one or more security VNF instances designated by numeral in hardware unit for example to block communications from hardware unit to hardware unit . This fourth optional action reduces the load on the transmission lines connecting hardware unit to the rest of network but does not reduce the load on hardware unit itself.

As a fifth optional action VNF O or a core component or a leaf component and or security management module may initiate one or more security VNF instances designated by numeral in hardware unit for example to scan hardware unit and remove the malicious software from hardware unit .

As a sixth optional action VNF O or a core component or a leaf component and or security management module may initiate the cleansing of hardware unit as described above with reference to .

It is appreciated that the operator of NFV based network can provide its customers such as the customer serviced by hardware unit an automatic security service that is initiated according and or adapted to security threats to other customers of network . Such service can be initiated automatically or semi automatically requireing a human approval.

A combination of two or more of the options described above is an example of a process in which a security attack detected by an NFV O leaf component of a NFV O hierarchy of a first customer is expended within the customer s NFV O hierarchy then it is expanded into the network s geographical NFV O hierarchy and then it is expanded into a service NFV O hierarchy and or into an NFV O hierarchy of a second customer.

It is appreciated that a security VNF instance such as the security VNF instance designated by numeral operating within a customer s NFV O hierarchy or a service NFV O hierarchy may be better tuned to detect a security attack than a general purpose security VNF instance operating within the general network geographical NFV O hierarchy.

It is appreciated that security process is an example of a process within an NFV based network for migrating the defense against a DDoS or similar attack in the direction of the source of the attack.

It is also appreciated that security process is an example of a process within the NFV based network for migrating the defense against a DDoS or similar attack within the NFV based network according to rules or policies. Particularly according to the present example embodied by the process the rules include load thresholds. Particularly according to the present example embodied by the process the purpose of the rules is to reduce the load on the participating hardware units and or transmission lines for example by increasing the number of participating hardware units and or transmission lines.

As shown in security process starts with step for example when an NFV O or a core component or a leaf component and or a security management module associated therewith receives information about an attack such as a DDoS attack on a particular hardware unit or on a VNF instance associated therewith.

The security process proceeds with step to set load thresholds such as processing load thresholds and traffic load thresholds. The security process proceeds with step to initiate a defense against the DDoS attack and to step to monitor the relevant loads.

The security process proceeds to step to compare the monitored loads with their respective thresholds and determine one or more overload conditions. If an overload exists the security process proceeds to step to locate one or more upstream nodes e.g. hardware units install a security VNF therewith step set additional load thresholds and initiate one or more security VNF instances.

More information regarding optional NFV network security techniques may be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 033 615 titled S MCPIVOSN which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions as set forth above for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

