---

title: Role reversal from wireless docking center to wireless dockee
abstract: A device configured to manage a wireless docking environment maintains one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices; determines the device is in proximity of a second device; and in response to determining the device is in proximity of the second device, relinquishes control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521697&OS=09521697&RS=09521697
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09521697
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140926
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 993 998 filed 15 May 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated by reference.

Docking stations which may also be referred to as docks are sometimes used to couple electronic devices such as laptop computers to peripherals such as monitors keyboards mice printers or other types of input or output devices. These docking stations typically require a physical connection between the electronic device and the docking station. Additionally the electronic device and the docking station typically establish docking communications before docking functions may be used.

This disclosure describes an architecture for wireless docking in which an incumbent wireless docking center WDC may relinquish its role as WDC in the presence of another WDC. The incumbent WDC may for example relinquish its role as WDC when it is in the presence of a WDC that is more resource rich than the incumbent WDC.

In one example a method of managing a wireless docking environment includes maintaining by a first device one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices determining if the first device is in proximity of a second device and in response to determining the first device is in proximity of the second device relinquishing control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device.

In another example a method of managing a wireless docking environment includes receiving from a device a message indicating the device is relinquishing control of at least one of one or more communication sessions between the device and one or more peripheral devices and in response to receiving the message establishing one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices previously controlled by the device.

In another example a device configured to manage a wireless docking environment includes one or more processors configured to maintain one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices determine the device is in proximity of a second device and in response to determining the device is in proximity of the second device relinquish control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device.

In another example a computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to maintain one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices and a first device determine if the first device is in proximity of a second device and in response to determining the first device is in proximity of the second device relinquish control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device.

In another example an apparatus for managing a wireless docking environment includes means for maintaining by a first device one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices means for determining if the first device is in proximity of a second device and means for relinquishing control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device in response to determining the first device is in proximity of the second device.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This disclosure describes an architecture for wireless docking in which an incumbent wireless docking center WDC may relinquish its role as WDC in the presence of another WDC. The incumbent WDC may for example relinquish its role as WDC when it is in the presence of a WDC that is more resource rich than the incumbent WDC. As one example a battery powered device e.g. tablet phone or laptop acting as a WDC may relinquish its role as WDC in the presence of a non battery powered device that is also configured to act as a WDC e.g. desktop computer or television . A peripheral such as headphones or a video screen may stream media from the battery powered device when the battery powered device is acting as the WDC and stream the same or different media from the non battery powered device when the non battery powered device is the WDC. The transition from one WDC to another may be performed in a way that is transparent to a user of the devices and peripherals communicating with the devices. The techniques of this disclosure may for example preserve battery power in battery powered device as well as enable peripherals to be paired with devices that offer the more robust assortment of features and applications.

Docking generally refers to a process by which a wireless dockee WD learns about the PFs Peripheral functions and other WDs advertised by a WDC connects to the WDC and to one or all of the PFs and WDs with a user pairing step. The term wireless dockee generally refers to a logical function in a device that makes it capable of docking. The term wireless docking center generally refers to a logical function in a device which coordinates the setup of connection between a WD and a full set or subset of all PFs and WDs in a wireless docking environment WDN that it manages. A WDN generally refers to a set of peripherals and WDs managed by the WDC.

The peripheral devices of the wireless docking system may include displays projectors speakers keyboards mice joysticks data storage devices network interface devices other docking hosts remote controls cameras microphones printers or any of various other devices capable of wireless communication with device . Different types of peripheral devices may be desirable in different environments such as home environments office environments or mobile environments including environments within vehicles or other settings that may have specific peripherals for that setting. Device may engage services provided by peripherals . Device may couple to peripherals via wireless communication channels to operate and or exchange data with peripherals in accordance with the services accessible to device .

Wireless communication channels may comprise any channels capable of propagating communicative signals between device and the respective peripherals . In some examples the wireless communication channels may be implemented in radio frequency communications in frequency bands such as the 2.4 gigahertz GHz band the 5 GHz band the 60 GHz band or other frequency bands. In some examples the wireless communication channels may comply with one or more sets of standards protocols or technologies among Wi Fi as promoted by the Wi Fi Alliance WiGig as promoted by the Wireless Gigabit Alliance and or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 set of standards e.g. 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.11 ad etc. or other standards protocols or technologies. The frequency bands used for the wireless communication channels such as the 2.4 GHz 5 GHz and 60 GHz bands may be defined for purposes of this disclosure as they are understood in light of the standards of Wi Fi WiGig any one or more IEEE 802.11 protocols and or other applicable standards or protocols including the Media Agnostic Universal Serial Bus USB Draft Specification presently under development. In some examples the wireless communications channels may represent a single wireless communication channel multiplexed among peripherals .

Device may establish communications with any subset of the peripherals automatically once device and the subset come within operative communication range of each other or manually in response to a user input in different examples. Device and the peripherals may use Application Service Platform ASP and or Peripheral Function Protocols PFPs such as WiFi Serial Bus WSB and Miracast to manage communications with each other for a variety of services including a wireless docking service WDS .

WDC represents a computing device configured for wireless docking and referred to as a wireless docking center in the context of a wireless docking system . With WDC setup as wireless docking center WDC may engage services provided by peripherals and device . WDC may couple to peripherals via wireless communication channels to operate and or exchange data with peripherals in accordance with the services accessible to WDC .

Wireless communication channels and generally represent the same types of communication channels as wireless communication channels but represent communication channels between WDC and peripherals and device instead of between device and peripherals and . Wireless communication channels and may be any channels capable of propagating communicative signals between WDC and the respective peripherals and device . In some examples the wireless communication channels and may be implemented in radio frequency communications in frequency bands such as the 2.4 gigahertz GHz band the 5 GHz band the 60 GHz band or other frequency bands. In some examples the wireless communication channels and may comply with one or more sets of standards protocols or technologies among Wi Fi as promoted by the Wi Fi Alliance WiGig as promoted by the Wireless Gigabit Alliance and or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 set of standards e.g. 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.11ad etc. or other standards protocols or technologies. The frequency bands used for the wireless communication channels such as the 2.4 GHz 5 GHz and 60 GHz bands may be defined for purposes of this disclosure as they are understood in light of the standards of Wi Fi WiGig any one or more IEEE 802.11 protocols and or other applicable standards or protocols. In some examples the wireless communications channels and may represent a single wireless communication channel multiplexed among peripherals and device .

WDC may establish communications with any subset of the peripherals and device automatically once WDC and the subset come within operative communication range of each other or manually in response to a user input in different examples. WDC and the peripherals may use Application Service Platform ASP and or Peripheral Function Protocols PFPs such as WiFi Serial Bus WSB and Miracast to manage communications with each other for a variety of services including a wireless docking service WDS .

In the example device maintains one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices . In response to determining it is in proximity of WDC device relinquishes control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to WDC as shown in . Device may for example determine that is in proximity of WDC by determining a signal strength of a signal received from WDC determining a round trip time for a signal sent to WDC determining a position for itself and or WDC using a positioning system and or by some other means. As part of relinquishing control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions device may send a message to WDC indicating that device is relinquishing control of the at least one of the one or more communication sessions to WDC . As part of relinquishing control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions device may send a termination time to WDC . The termination time may for example indicate that device has terminated a communication session or plans to terminate a communication session and that WDC may initiate a new communication session. In response to determining that device is in proximity of WDC and determining a communication session with one of peripherals or is active device may maintain control of the communication session with the peripheral. Device may for example maintain the communication session so as to not disrupt a user experience. Once the communication session is no longer active device may then terminate the communication session. In response to determining that device is out of proximity of WDC device may reestablish new communication sessions between at least one of the one or more peripheral devices. In other words device may revert back from being a dockee as shown in to being a WDC as shown in .

In some examples device uses a wireless docking service to create a wireless docking environment WDN that includes the peripherals . In some examples device uses the wireless docking service to discover the wireless docking environment already created by device or another WDC. Device may use the wireless docking service to select the WDN to establish a wireless docking session by which device may engage services provided by the peripherals . Device may couple to the WDN via the wireless communication channel to operate and or exchange data with the peripherals in accordance with services accessible to device . The wireless communication channel may be similar to any of the wireless communication channels of .

In some examples the WDC uses a wireless docking service to create a wireless docking environment WDN that includes the peripherals a and device . In some examples the WDC uses the wireless docking service to discover the wireless docking environment already created by the WDC or another wireless docking center. The WDC may use the wireless docking service to select the WDN to establish a wireless docking session by which the WDC may engage services provided by the peripherals and device . The WDC may couple to the WDN via the wireless communication channel to operate and or exchange data with the peripherals and device in accordance with services accessible to the WDC . The wireless communication channel may be similar to any of the wireless communication channels of .

In the examples of device and the WDC may use a wireless docking service to consolidate connections with one or more peripherals into a common context or docking session that may be used by one or more application s executing on WDC or device to easily connect to and use the peripherals.

Accordingly the user application may use the API to direct the wireless docking service to discover DiscoverPeripherals configure ConfigurePeripherals and directly select UsePeripherals peripherals to establish a docking session as well as to undock a docking session Undock . Alternatively or in addition the user application may use the API to direct the wireless docking service to create a wireless docking environment CreateWDN from a set of peripherals discover an existing WDN DiscoverWDN and select a WDN that includes peripherals for use UseWDN .

Wireless docking is implemented as a wireless docking service WDS operating over a wireless Application Service Platform layer ASP operating over Wi Fi Direct wireless communications layer Wi Fi Direct in this example. The Wi Fi Direct communications are an example implementation of wireless communications over which the ASP may operate.

Various wireless services may be enabled as interface layers over the ASP including a Print service a Display service and other services in some examples. The wireless docking service operates over each of the Print service and the Display service to provide an interface with the user application . The Print service and the Display service may be provided by one or more peripheral devices directly accessible to the computing device and managed via the ASP communication layer in some examples.

The WDS may be provided as a Wi Fi Direct service and referred to as a Wi Fi Direct Docking Service. The Wi Fi Direct Docking Service can be a subset of Wi Fi docking in particular a subset of Wi Fi docking operating over a P2P Wi Fi Direct topology in the example of a Wi Fi Direct implementation. The WDS may for example be implemented as a software module that may be loaded onto or stored in a device such as device or WDC . Aspects of the WDS may also be integrated with pre packaged with or implemented in hardware in some examples. For example the WDS may be stored on integrated with or implemented by an integrated circuit or a chipset containing one or more integrated circuits and one or more memory components.

A packet based transport layer protocol stack not illustrated may run on top of ASP Miracast and or WiFi Serial Bus WSB . The packet based transport layer may include an Internet Protocol IP communications layer and one or more of various Transport Layer communication layers. The IP communications layer may run on top of ASP or directly on Wi Fi Direct . The Transport Layer communications layer may include and one or more of Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP or other Transport Layer communication protocols.

The wireless communications stack includes several additional communication interfaces between different components of the wireless communications stack . A WDS Interface between ASP and the WDS serves as a wireless docking interface for ASP methods and events. The WDS Interface may implement WDS running directly on ASP to manage wireless docking communications directly with one or more peripherals.

Various other communication interfaces are also included in wireless docking communications stack . Communication interface between Miracast and WDS serves as an interface for controlling and using Miracast operations. Communication interface between WiFi Serial Bus WSB and WDS serves as an interface for controlling and using WiFi Serial Bus operations. Communication interface between the Print service and the WDS serves as an interface for controlling and using the Print service operations. Communication interface between the Display service and the WDS serves as an interface for controlling and using Display service operations.

WDS includes role reversal module which may be configured to implement the role reversal techniques described in this disclosure. As introduced above WDS may maintain one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices. As described above role reversal module may be configured to determine if computing device is in proximity of another WDC device. If computing device is operating as a WDC and comes in proximity of another device acting as a WDC role reversal module may implement the relinquishing of computing device s role as a WDC to the other WDC device. If computing device is operating as a wireless dockee of a WDC device and leaves the proximity of the WDC device then role reversal module may implement the establishment of computing device as a WDC. Role reversal module may for example determine that computing device is in proximity of another WDC device by one or more of determining a signal strength of a signal received from the other WDC device determining a round trip time for a signal sent to the other WDC device determining a position for itself and or the WDC device using a positioning system and or by some other means.

As part of capability learning operation device may advertise information such as support for role reversal behavior a resource availability index and availability. In this context role reversal behavior generally refers to attributes indicating whether the behavior of role reversal is implemented. For example if set to 1 resource availability index and availability attribute values are not reserved. If set to 0 resource availability index and availability attribute values are reserved. In this context a resource availability index may generally refer to an indication of the amount of resources available to device or WDC at the time role reversal is being contemplated. A resource may for example refer to a tuple which comprises one or more of whether a device is plugged into a power supply an amount of remaining battery life memory availability CPU utilization available bandwidth e.g. Mb s etc. The tuple may also include additional characteristics. Power supply set to 0 indicates the device is AC powered and set to 1 indicates battery powered. Remaining Battery life carries the value of battery life in percentage 0 100 and is reserved when power supply is set to 0. CPU utilization is represented in percentage 0 100 . Resource availability index is an integer value 0 10 calculated through this tuple. A higher value or in some implementations a lower value for a resource availability index may represent richness in resources.

In some examples the resource availability index may be user customizable such that a user can control when role reversal is performed and when it is not. As one example a user may configure a role reversal module e.g. role reversal module of device or WDC to only perform role reversal if the resource availability index for device is below a certain threshold. In other examples a user may configure role reversal module to perform role reversal any time device is acting as a WDC and comes into proximity of WDC .

WDC may advertise its availability. As one example an availability flag may be set to 0 to indicate that WDC is unavailable to perform role reversal behavior. Otherwise WDC may set the availability flag to 1 to indicate that WDC is available to perform role reversal.

In operation device determines whether it is in proximity of WDC . If device is not in proximity of WDC then device continues to act as a WDC. If device is in proximity of WDC then device performs operation capability learning and notification of role reversal . Operation may for example involve a three way handshake REQUEST RESPONSE and Notification . As part of operation device sends requests to WDC to provide information on for example i support for role reversal behavior ii resource availability index and iii availability e.g. status willing to accept . This request may also carry information about device attributes such as i support for role reversal behavior ii resource availability index and iii availability.

As part of operation WDC may also send a response containing for example i support for role reversal behavior ii resource availability index and iii availability of WDC to device after receiving the request from device . WDC may set a STATUS field in the response message to SUCCESS based on local logic such as a comparison of one or more attributes. If WDC resource availability index is equal to device resource availability index then tie breaking can be done based on supplemental information such as a tie breaker bit etc. As part of operation device may send a notification to WDC confirming the role reversal. The notification message may include for example device and service information about one or more peripherals session information about each peripheral and termination time when device ceases operation.

After completion of operation in instances where operation was successful device may initiate operation role reversal indication . As part of operation device may advertise to peripherals and about the role reversal event in the future. For example device may broadcast an INDICATION message which contains i a future timestamp e.g. when reversal will happen ii WDC connection information e.g. name of WDC and other info and iii a list of peripherals that should connect to WDC peripheral looks for its name . If for example DEVICE has an active session with a peripheral that peripheral may not be on the list.

In operation device may perform role reversal in which case it will relinquish its role as a WDC relative to at least one of peripheral and . In operation one or more of peripherals and may leverage the connection information provided in operation to connect and reestablish sessions through WDC .

As shown in the specific example of computing device includes one or more processors one or more input devices one or more communication units one or more output devices one or more storage devices and user interface UI device and wireless communication module . Computing device in one example further includes wireless docking communications stack authorization module one or more applications and operating system that are executable by computing device . Each of components and are coupled physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications. In some examples communication channels may include a system bus a network connection an inter process communication data structure or any other method for communicating data. As one example in components and may be coupled by one or more communication channels . Wireless docking communications stack authorization module and one or more applications may also communicate information with one another as well as with other components in computing device . While illustrated as separate modules any one or more of modules or may be implemented as part of any of applications .

Processors in some examples are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in storage device . Examples of processors may include any one or more of a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or equivalent discrete or integrated logic circuitry.

One or more storage devices may be configured to store information within computing device during operation. Storage device in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage device in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that storage device does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples storage device is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Storage device in one example is used by software or applications running on computing device to temporarily store information during program execution.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

Computing device in some examples also includes one or more communication units . Computing device in one example utilizes communication unit to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Communication unit may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 4G and Wi Fi radios computing devices as well as Universal Serial Bus USB . In some examples computing device utilizes communication unit to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as a server.

In addition the computing device may include wireless communication module . As described herein wireless communication module may be active hardware that is configured to communicate with other wireless communication devices. These wireless communication devices may operate according to Bluetooth Ultra Wideband radio Wi Fi or other similar protocols. In some examples wireless communication module may be an external hardware module that is coupled with computing device via a bus such as via a Universal Serial Bus USB port . Wireless communication module in some examples may also include software which may in some examples be independent from operating system and which may in some other examples be a sub routine of operating system .

Computing device in one example also includes one or more input devices . Input device in some examples is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio or video feedback. Examples of input device include a presence sensitive display a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user.

One or more output devices may also be included in computing device . Output device in some examples is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. Output device in one example includes a presence sensitive display a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some examples user interface UI device may include functionality of input device and or output device .

Computing device may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of computing device . For example operating system in one example facilitates the communication of wireless docking communications stack and application with processors communication unit storage device input device user interface device wireless communication module and output device . Wireless docking communications stack and application may also include program instructions and or data that are executable by computing device . As one example modules and may include instructions that cause computing device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. Wireless docking communications stack and application may represent wireless docking communications stack and application of for example.

A first device maintains one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices . For example the first device may comprise a smartphone tablet computer laptop computer or other mobile device that includes a central processing unit CPU capable of use with one or more peripheral device. The one or more peripheral devices may for example correspond to peripherals and of . The first device may periodically check to determine if it is in proximity of a second device . The first device may for example determine if the first device is in proximity of the second device by doing one or more of determining a signal strength of a signal received from the second device determining a round trip time for a signal sent to the second device and determining a position of the first device using a positioning system.

If the first device is not in proximity of the second device no then the first device continues to maintain the one or more communication sessions between the one or more peripheral devices . In response to determining the first device is in proximity of the second device yes the first devices may relinquish control of at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device . Prior to relinquishing control of the at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device the first device may optionally send a message to the second device indicating the first device is relinquishing control of the at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device . The message sent to the second device may for example be or include a termination time.

Prior to relinquishing control of the at least one of the one or more communication sessions to the second device the first device may optionally determine if one or more communication sessions are active . If one or more communication sessions are active yes then the first device may maintain control of the one or more communication sessions until they are no longer active. If one or more communication sessions are not active no then the first device may relinquish control of the one or more communication sessions to the second device . In some examples the first device may continue to maintain only the active communication sessions and relinquish control of non active communication sessions. Then when the active communication sessions are no longer the first device may relinquish control of those communication sessions. Alternatively the first device may continue to maintain control of all communication sessions until all are non active. In some examples in response to determining the first device is out of proximity of the second device the first device may reestablish a new communication sessions between at least one of the one or more peripheral devices.

The second device receives from the first device a message indicating the first device is relinquishing control of at least one of one or more communication sessions between the first device and one or more peripheral devices . In response to receiving the message the second device establishes one or more communication sessions between one or more peripheral devices previously controlled by the first device . The second device may also establish a communication session with the first device where the first device is configured as a wireless dockee .

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices Flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules configured for encoding and decoding or incorporated in a combined codec. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a codec hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

