---

title: Methods and systems of vehicle telematics enabled customer experience
abstract: An automobile including a self-diagnostic monitoring server and healing can be implemented. The vehicle monitoring system can include an automobile system comprising a self-powered motor vehicle used for transportation. The vehicle system can include a sensor system arranged on a set of components of the automobile system and coupled to an energy providing system in the automobile system to be provided with energy by said energy providing system, said sensor system obtaining data about at least one property for each component of the set of components of the automobile system and converting the data into signals. The vehicle system can include a communication system in the automobile system. The vehicle system can include an analytics system to receive the data and determine a state of each component of the automobile system based on the at least one property of each component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286736&OS=09286736&RS=09286736
owner: 
number: 09286736
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141216
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 916 294 filed Dec. 16 2013. This application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes. This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 092 752 filed Dec. 16 2014. This application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This application relates generally to vehicle monitoring and telematics and more particularly to a method and system of vehicle telematics enabled customer experience.

Telecommunication and information processing technologies have considerably evolved and converged resulting in a variety telematics technologies. These telematics technologies have been incorporated into vehicle and computerized fleet management systems. Examples of such applications include inter alia GPS navigation vehicle tracking and automatic driving assistance.

Concurrently vehicle monitoring and maintenance has become more complicated for vehicle owners. Vehicle owners may not have the knowledge or ability to detect when repairs are required. At the same time sensor technologies are available to provide data about various vehicle systems.

In one exemplary embodiment an automobile including a vehicle monitoring system can be implemented. The vehicle monitoring system can include an automobile system comprising a self powered motor vehicle used for transportation. The vehicle system can include a sensor system arranged on a set of components of the automobile system and coupled to an energy providing system in the automobile system to be provided with energy by said energy providing system said sensor system obtaining data about at least one property for each component of the set of components of the automobile system and converting the data into signals. The vehicle system can include a communication system in the automobile system and wirelessly communicating with said sensor system to receive the signals from said sensor system and derive from the signals the data obtained by said sensor system. The vehicle system can include an analytics system communicating with the communication system to receive the data and determine a state of each component of the set of components of the automobile system based on the at least one property of each component and to trigger a communication when the analytics system detects that a component is in a nonoperational state wherein the communication is communicated by the communication system to at least one of an automobile service provider of the automobile system a parts provider of the component or a Vehicle Operation Center associated with the vehicle system.

The Figures described above are a representative set and are not an exhaustive with respect to embodying the invention.

Disclosed are a system method and article of manufacture of intelligent vehicle applications. The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the various embodiments. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment one example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description nunmerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art can recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The schematic flow chart diagrams included herein are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams and they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

Intermediary reporting device s can include various tools are available that plug into the OBD connector to access OBD functions. Intermediary reporting device can include a dongle and or other piece of hardware that connects to on board vehicle computing systems . For example intermediary reporting devices can include data loggers. As used herein a data logger capture vehicle data while the vehicle is in operation for later analysis. A data logger can obtain engine and vehicle operations for diagnosis or tuning. Intermediary reporting devices can monitor and record driver behavior. Intermediary reporting devices can interface with on board vehicle computing systems e.g. via Bluetooth USB port OBD II diagnostic connector etc. . Intermediary reporting devices can obtain various vehicle state information e.g. OBD data vehicle sensor data can provide it to mobile device and or vehicle service server . Intermediary reporting devices can perform various vehicle telematics functions. It is noted that Intermediary reporting devices can be agonistic as to the various makes models and or production years of vehicles.

Mobile device can include one or more applications for analyzing and or presenting vehicle information to a user e.g. see . Vehicle information can include vehicle state data vehicle manuals vehicle marketing information vehicle repair data and the like. The data can be real time and or statics data. Vehicle information can also include social networking information location data vehicle environmental data and vehicle health data e.g. as defined by the various sub systems of the vehicle etc. Vehicle environment can be adjusted based on a setting mode selected by user. In some examples mobile device data can be utilized as a proxy for a vehicle state when it is determined that the mobile device is in said vehicle. For example the mobile device s sensors can be used to determine the values of such variables as speed orientation travel route location of the vehicle when it has been determined that the mobile device is collocated with the vehicle. These applications can be client applications of vehicle service server . In some examples vehicle service server can be implemented locally in the vehicle itself and or in a cloud computing platform in whole or in part. Vehicle service server can track the vehicles service history. Mobile device can serves as an Internet and or cloud gateway for sending vehicle data e.g. user driving behavior vehicle user statistics vehicle diagnostic trouble codes and or any data produced by an OBD2 interface to another entity of system via computer network s . In one example the OBD2 port can utilized as a media interface. Accordingly an OBD2 dongle can be utilized as digital media player e.g. a Chromecast device for the vehicle. In this way the OBD2 dongle can broadcast audio video files from a user s mobile device to the vehicle. Mobile device can include one or more applications that allow a user to access the functionalities of vehicle service server .

Vehicle service server can include one or more applications for gathering and analyzing vehicle information. Vehicle service server can obtain vehicle information from any entity provided in . Vehicle service server can maintain singular unified service history of each vehicle registered with it. This service history can be stored locally in any entity of system as well as in a cloud computing environment. Unified service histories for vehicle registered with system can be maintained in a database managed by the vehicle service server . Vehicle service server can query third party servers to obtain information related to a vehicle include inter alia vehicle manuals repair history repair costs vehicle part costs and or recall information. Additionally vehicle service server can perform any of the other processes provided infra. Vehicle service server can include search engine and web crawler functionalities. Vehicle service server can include functionalities for order user preferences based on user provided preferences e.g. relating to automatically scheduling service and or other repair options . Vehicle service server can include functionalities for locating tracking vehicles e.g. utilizing various GPS and or Assisted GPS systems . This information can be provided to a client application in mobile device . Additionally the tracking functionality can enable a user to control permissions to various vehicle systems remotely. Vehicle service server can include functionalities for notifying vehicle owner of any vehicle service needs and or repair needs associating promotions e.g. coupons and or other offers through relevancy with a vehicle s respective service and or repair needs prognostics e.g. predictive vehicle diagnostics on vehicle issues before they occur and or notifying a user of any relevant recalls bulletins complaints service reminders and or other problems when issues are detected. Vehicle service server can implement a vehicle relationship management VRM service. The VRM service can enable a customer relationship system with relevance based on such factors as year make model submodel of the vehicle. The VRM service enables the vehicle to communicate with the automobile manufacturer dealer and or local service provide. This communication can be the enabler of the customer relationship.

Third party servers can include a server for any third party enterprise involved in an intelligent vehicle application service e.g. customer relationship management entities vehicle retailers fleet managers repair shops vehicle parts retailers vehicle parts manufacturers insurance providers vehicle health etc. . Third party servers can provide various application programming interfaces APIs . In some examples API s can be provided based on such factors as year make and or model. Alternatively API s can be agnostic to such factors. API s can be available for queries by applications in mobile device and or vehicle service server . It is noted that the certain entities of such as vehicle service server and or third party servers can be implemented in a cloud computing environment. Mobile device e.g. a smart phone a wearable computer a head mounted display etc. can communicate directly with the vehicle s computing system e.g. via a local area network etc. . Vehicle service server can store the vehicle specifications and update said specifications when new components are added. Any entity of can be implemented in a cloud computing environment.

Additional example use cases are now provided. In one example a user can enable the vehicle diagnostic information to be automatically published to one or more of the user s online social networks e.g. utilizing a functionality of the vehicle service server . In this way the user s online social networking connections can have the option of offering bids to perform vehicle services and or other repairs. In another example a tire PSI reading e.g. as obtained by a sensor in the tire by on board vehicle computer can be provided to the mobile device and or vehicle service server . The tire PSI information can be displayed on the user s mobile device in substantially real time while the user fills the tire with air. The system can translate the tire PSI value to a more abstract term such as less air or more air . Air pressure information can be correlated with additional information e.g. other vehicle environmental data and an optimal air pressure for fuel efficiency can be calculated. This information can also be provided to a user in real time.

In one example a telematics enabled customer relationship management CRM automotive service and or parts e.g. vehicle components such as a brake system tires engine air conditioning electrical system etc. . For example automotive services can be triggered by changes in the state of the vehicle. Vehicle sensors can detect changes error codes in a component of the vehicle. The vehicle sensors can communicate changes to an analytics system. The analytics system can communicate these changes error codes to a service repair administration entity e.g. an automobile maker automobile service provider CRM administrator etc. . An automobile service provider can be an independent mechanic a dealer and or retail service chain. The service repair administration entity can notify e.g. via email text message voice message etc. the automobile owner of issues and or automatically schedules an appointment for issues repair and or recall services.

In one example a degradation in voltage over the course of six 6 months can be sensed by a voltage sensors in the automobile s battery system. This information can be communicated by a telematics system in the vehicle s analytics unit to the service repair administration entity. The service repair administration entity can then alert that automobile owner that the battery is dying from the services location.

In another example brake sensors recognize can detect wearing of brakes e.g. including pads and rotors or other related components. This information can be communicated by a telematics unit in the vehicle s analytics unit to the service repair administration entity. The service repair administration entity can then communicate an alert to the automobile or other vehicle type such a motorcycle fork lift etc. owner of the degradation of brakes and or alert a relevant service location to notify then notify the automobile owner.

In another example the analytics unit or a server side functionality in some examples can automatically order relevant parts when triggered by changes in the state of vehicle. The parts can ordered and or delivered to pre authorized service location or home. For example the analytics unit can detects failure in parts owing to wear and tear or faulty parts based on error codes provided by the vehicle s sensor system. The parts can be ordered based on account settings and or preferences e.g. shipping preferences etc. that are pre provided by the vehicle s owner. For example parts can be ordered from the preferred supplier e.g. from a dealer or from an aftermarket supplier . The parts delivered to the vehicle owner and or to a designated automotive shop location that was pre designated by the vehicle owner. In another example the sensor system can detected excessive wearing of one or more vehicle tires. A worn tire trigger alert can be automatically communicated to a designated tire dealer and or service location. The tire s can be ordered and or delivered accordingly.

In some examples an automotive monitoring system can be implemented. For example the automotive monitoring system can monitor vehicle events through a remote management system e.g. using an ADT home monitoring for the automobile and report any events to a vehicle operation center VOC . The VOC server can be accesses from an automobile manufacturer dealer or independent mechanic e.g. via a web page and or mobile device application . For example software deployed in an automobile s control computer e.g. an automobile analytics system to tracks events e.g. distance traveled component use and state speeds etc. as they occur. These events can be report to a VOC server. The VOC server can take action remotely and or request the vehicle to be taken to the nearest service location when issues are detected. An automobile analytics system can be both on board e.g. local to vehicle s computing system and or in a cloud computing platform . In another example a wheels misalignment can be detected and algorithmically determined e.g. by an automobile analytics unit to be causing rapid wear and tear of tires and or low tire pressure causing loss of fuel efficiency. The tire specifications can be stored locally in a data store in the vehicle. These specifications can be compared with the current tire state. This notion can be applied to any vehicle sub system as well. The VOC server can receive this information and notify the automobile owner of these issues and or automatically schedule an appointment to address issues. In one example the VOC server can include a search functionality to determine a lowest priced service in a nearest location and or specified radius from the current location of the vehicle.

It is noted that environmental data can be analyzed as well. A vehicle can include weather sensors and or received local weather information from the Internet e.g. either via car s detection of weather conditions or via GPS coordinates to get location and weather traffic road conditions . This information can be used to suggest actions to a vehicle user e.g. buy new windshield wipers adjust tire pressure for colder temperatures correct fluid types windshield wiper fluid oil snow chain usage helpful tips etc. . For example current tire tread may not be optimal for current road and or weather conditions. This can trigger an alert. As used herein environment can include a vehicles current location predicted location e.g. based on vehicle traveling direction and or speed weather road conditions etc.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes can be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices modules etc. described herein can be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium .

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein can be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and can be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. In some embodiments the machine readable medium can be a non transitory form of machine readable medium.

