---

title: Sensor pattern with signal-spreading electrodes
abstract: A capacitive sensor array may include a plurality of row sensor electrodes and a column sensor electrode capacitively coupled with each of the plurality of row sensor electrodes to form a plurality of unit cells. For each row sensor electrode, a unit cell that is associated with the column sensor electrode and the row sensor electrode comprises an area where a capacitance between the column sensor electrode and the row sensor electrode is greater than any other capacitance between the column sensor electrode and a different row sensor electrode. The capacitive sensor array further includes a first plurality of dummy electrodes, where each of the first plurality of dummy electrodes is capacitively coupled with the column sensor electrode and two adjacent row sensor electrodes of the plurality of row sensor electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495050&OS=09495050&RS=09495050
owner: MONTEREY RESEARCH, LLC
number: 09495050
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140605
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 946 560 filed on Feb. 28 2014 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 098 057 filed on Dec. 5 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 875 863 filed on Sep. 10 2013 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor electrodes that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment a capacitive sensor array used to track the movement of a contact such as a finger or stylus touch across its surface may include multiple signal spreading dummy electrodes within its sensor pattern. The inclusion of such signal spreading dummy electrodes increases linearity of the touch tracking relative to a sensor array that does not include signal spreading dummy electrodes. As described herein the term dummy electrode may refer to an electrode that is not conductively coupled with a row or column sensor electrode but does not necessarily imply a lack of electrical function.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor electrode N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor electrode detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . In one embodiment the touch coordinate converter may be coupled with a lookup table LUT . The LUT stores a number of correction vectors each corresponding to a different location on the capacitive sensor array. For example each of the correction vectors may include correction values for adjusting along one or both of the x axis and y axis the touch coordinates calculated by the touch coordinate converter . In one embodiment the touch coordinate converter selects from the LUT the appropriate correction vector corresponding to the location of the calculated touch coordinates then adjusts the touch coordinates according to the correction vector. In one embodiment the correction vectors compensate for any systematic displacement error affecting the calculated touch coordinates. The corrected touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor electrodes arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor electrodes of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor electrodes of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor electrodes while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor electrode and a conductive object near the sensor electrode. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

Touch screen assembly includes an LCD over which a glass may be positioned. In one embodiment sensor pattern may be constructed on the surface of glass that faces the LCD . In one embodiment an air gap may separate the glass from the LCD .

In one embodiment a capacitive sensor pattern such as the SSD pattern DSD pattern or other capacitive sensor pattern described herein may include row and column sensor electrodes that can be expressed as a matrix of the intersections between the row and column electrodes. Resolution of these sensor arrays may be represented as the product of the number of columns and the number of rows. For example for a sensor array with N row electrodes and M column electrodes the number of intersections would be N M.

Each unit cell is associated with a particular pairing of a row sensor electrode and a column sensor electrode and corresponds to an area within which the capacitive coupling between the row sensor electrode and the column sensor electrode is greater than for any other pairing of sensor electrodes. For example unit cell includes an area where the capacitance between sensor electrodes and is greater than the capacitance between any other pair of electrodes.

In one embodiment capacitance sensor performs a scan of the sensor array by applying a transmit TX signal to each of the row sensor electrodes and measuring a resulting receive RX signal generated at each of the column sensor electrodes . The sensor array includes multiple signal spreading dummy electrodes that are each capacitively coupled with at least two of the TX sensor electrodes. For example each of the dummy electrodes and overlaps and is capacitively coupled with both of TX sensor electrodes and .

Thus each of the dummy electrodes and is situated at least partially within the area of two adjacent unit cells and . As illustrated in the area of each dummy electrode and is approximately evenly divided between the unit cells and . In one embodiment the dummy electrodes and each comprise two smaller portions that are electrically connected by a connecting trace that is narrower than either of the portions. For example the dummy electrode is made up of a first portion and a second portion electrically connected together by a connecting trace . The connecting trace is narrower than either of the portions and in terms of the widths of these elements as measured perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the column sensor electrode i.e. along the x axis indicated in .

In one embodiment the connecting trace overlaps a gap between the adjacent row sensor electrodes and to mitigate the effects of lamination offset during the manufacturing process. For instance a manufacturing process that positions a top layer of conductive material including dummy electrode over a bottom layer including row electrodes and may result in an offset between the layers of as much as 0.2 millimeters in either direction along the y axis from a nominal position which evenly divides the area of dummy electrode between unit cells and . Accordingly the length of the connecting trace along the longitudinal axis of the column sensor electrode i.e. parallel to the indicated y axis may be selected as 0.5 millimeters at least double the tolerance of 0.2 millimeters . Since only the smaller area of the connecting trace is subject to unequal division between unit cells and due to lamination offset the possible variation of the total area of dummy electrode caused by lamination offset can be reduced relative to embodiments where the dummy electrode is not narrower across the gap between row electrodes.

Additionally each of the dummy electrodes and also capacitively coupled with the RX column sensor electrode illustrated in as three subtraces and which are electrically coupled as can be seen in . In one embodiment the width of the central subtrace is less than the width of either of the outer subtraces and . As the central trace subtrace is nearer than the other subtraces and to a central longitudinal axis of the column electrode . The signal spreading dummy electrodes and are located between the subtraces of the column electrode . In alternative embodiments the column electrode may include fewer or more than three subtraces with correspondingly fewer or more signal spreading dummy electrodes in between the subtraces. In one embodiment the subtraces may become progressively wider the farther they are positioned away from the central longitudinal axis of the column sensor electrode.

Optical dummy electrode is positioned between the signal spreading dummy electrodes and and optical dummy electrode is positioned between the signal spreading dummy electrodes and . In one embodiment each of the optical dummy electrodes and is formed from the same layer of conductive material as the column sensor electrode and the signal spreading dummy electrodes and . Optical dummy electrodes such as electrodes and may minimize the gaps between the column sensor electrode and the signal spreading dummy electrodes and to improve optical uniformity for applications such as for example touch screens or transparent touch sensing surfaces.

The pattern of conductive material in unit cell also includes isolation regions and between the subtraces and of the RX column sensor electrode and the dummy electrodes and . As illustrated in these isolation regions include additional optical dummy electrodes such as and . In one embodiment each of these optical dummy electrodes and may be formed from the same layer of conductive material as the column sensor electrode and the signal spreading dummy electrodes and .

In one embodiment the isolation regions reduce crosstalk between the RX sensor electrode and the signal spreading dummy electrodes while the optical dummy electrodes such as and occupy the space in the isolation regions to improve optical uniformity in the isolation regions . Accordingly optical dummy electrodes may be positioned between a column sensor electrode and a signal spreading dummy electrode for example dummy electrodes are positioned between the column sensor electrode and the signal spreading dummy electrode . Other dummy electrodes may be positioned between a column sensor electrode and an optical dummy electrode for example dummy electrodes are positioned between column sensor electrode and optical dummy electrode . In an alternative embodiments the isolation regions may not contain any dummy electrodes.

In one embodiment the length of each signal spreading dummy electrode is at least half the length of the unit cell for example the length of the dummy electrode along the y axis is at least half the length of the unit cell along the y axis. In alternative embodiments the lengths of the signal spreading dummy electrodes may be greater or less than half the length of the unit cell.

When a stylus tip moves over the three unit cells and in a direction parallel to the y axis the unit cells and produce corresponding signal profiles and respectively. As illustrated in a positive direction along the axis corresponds to an increase in the signal while the axis indicates the position of the stylus tip . For each of the signal profiles and a maximum signal is observed when the stylus is above a center of the unit cell. The signal descends quickly as stylus is moved away from the center of the unit cell. When the signal strength falls below a noise level the signal cannot be used for position calculation. When fewer than three of the signals are discernable above the noise level the position of the stylus may be inaccurately determined. A location within the unit cell where this tends to occur may be referred to as a dead zone in the unit cell. For example such a dead zone may exist in the center of unit cell where the signal levels and are both below the noise level .

A maximum signal for a sensor electrode is observed when the stylus is above a center of the sensor electrode. The capacitive sensor array with signal spreading dummy electrodes such as electrodes and widens the signal profiles and . In contrast with the signal profiles illustrated in the signal profiles and do not descend as quickly when the stylus is moved away from the center of the corresponding electrode. With regard to the TX row sensor electrode for example the electrode is capacitively coupled with the signal spreading dummy electrodes and . Thus a TX signal applied to sensor electrode is additionally applied to dummy electrodes and via the capacitive coupling. The resulting set of electrodes and to which the TX signal is applied is physically wider than the sensor pitch i.e. the distance between corresponding portions of adjacent row sensor electrodes . Accordingly the stylus may be sensed over a wider span resulting in a wider signal profile for the sensor pattern with signal spreading dummy electrodes as compared to a sensor pattern without the signal spreading dummy electrodes.

The adjacent TX row sensor electrodes and operate in similar fashion for example sensor electrode is capacitively coupled with signal spreading dummy electrodes and while sensor electrode is capacitively coupled with signal spreading dummy electrodes and . This results in wider signal profiles and corresponding to the sensor electrodes and respectively.

Provided the same sensor pitch as the sensor pattern illustrated in the wider signal profiles and cross at a higher point than the signal profiles and . As a result all three signals are above the noise level when the stylus is at the center of electrode . The unit cells of the sensor pattern in therefore do not have a dead zone at this noise level . As described above the sensor pitch can be measured between a center of one unit cell and a center of an adjacent unit cell. Alternatively the sensor pitch can be measured from one edge of an electrode to the corresponding edge of the adjacent electrode to include the width of the electrode and the gap between the electrodes.

In one embodiment signal spreading dummies widen the signal profile for a stylus or other conductive object moving along the y axis while the differences in widths of the RX subtraces widen the signal profile for conductive objects moving in the direction of the x axis. With reference to for example the arrangement of wider subtraces and at the edges of sensor electrode and a thinner subtrace along the center of electrode provides for increased sensitivity at the edges and decreased sensitivity in the center thus widening the overall signal profile.

Among the signal spreading dummy electrodes electrodes are located within the perimeter of the column sensor electrode while electrodes and are located outside the perimeter of the column sensor electrode . In other words electrodes are located between the subtraces of sensor electrode while electrodes and are not located between the subtraces of sensor electrode .

Sensor array additionally includes more than one optical dummy electrode and in between the subtraces of the column sensor electrode and between the signal spreading dummy electrodes and . Additional optical dummy electrodes and are located outside the perimeter of the column sensor electrode between the column sensor electrode and an adjacent column sensor electrode and between the signal spreading dummy electrodes and .

In method begins at block with the processing logic applying a transmit TX signal on a first electrode of a first set of electrodes of a capacitive sensor array. For example the TX signal may be applied to the row sensor electrode illustrated in . At block the processing logic measures a receive RX signal on a second electrode of a second set of electrodes. For example the RX signal may be measured at column electrode illustrated in . Each electrode of the first set of electrodes intersects each of the second set of electrodes to form unit cells each corresponding to an intersection of a pair of electrodes comprising one electrode from the first set and one electrode from the second set. At block the processing logic converts the measured RX signal into a first digital value which represents a first capacitance at the intersection between the first electrode and the second electrode. The operations of method may be repeated for each pair of sensor electrodes comprising one TX row sensor electrode and one RX column sensor electrode in order to detect one or more conductive objects at the surface of the capacitive sensor array.

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes may be interchanged and row or column sensor electrodes may be used as either TX or RX sensor electrodes. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor electrodes may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor electrodes when both row and column sensor electrodes are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive electrodes that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive electrodes. The terms substantially and approximately may indicate values or characteristics that may deviate from a nominal value or ideal characteristic where such deviation may result from manufacturing tolerances rounding error and the like while the desired effect of the nominal value or ideal characteristic is preserved.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

