---

title: Periodic ambient waveform analysis for enhanced social functions
abstract: In particular embodiments, one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embody software that is operable when executed to receive an audio waveform fingerprint and a client-determined location from a client device. The received audio waveform fingerprint may be compared to a database of stored audio waveform fingerprints, each stored audio waveform fingerprint associated with an object in an object database. One or more matching audio waveform fingerprints may be found from a comparison set of audio waveform fingerprints obtained from the audio waveform fingerprint database. Location information associated with a location of the client device may be determined, and the location information may be sent to the client device. The client device may be operable to update the client-determined location based at least in part on the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275647&OS=09275647&RS=09275647
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09275647
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140418
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 211 182 filed on 16 Aug. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to periodically capturing waveform data using the sensor subsystem of a mobile device and generating a fingerprint of the waveform for analysis on a server for enhanced social functions.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For example users can check in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a place or selecting a place from a pre established list of places . The geo social networking system among other things can record information about the user s presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo social networking system.

Particular embodiments relate to a geo social networking system that includes features directed to automatically and periodically capturing waveform data from the sensor subsystem of a mobile device uploading a representation of the waveform data to a server for analysis and receiving content based on the analysis. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars and events. For example the social networking system may also include media sharing capabilities. For example the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile such as in a wall post or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and or select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information. A privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 863 181 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 584 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including a comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 858 817 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes an example geo social networking system that can be used in connection with various embodiments of the present invention. The check in activity may also be displayed on a user profile page and in news feeds provided to users of the social networking system.

Still further a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and send the location data to social networking system. In this manner the social networking system may track the user s location and provide various recommendations to the user related to places that are proximal to the user s path or that are frequented by the user. In one implementation a user may opt in to this recommendation service which causes the client application to periodically post location data of the user to the social networking system.

Still further particular embodiments allow the social networking system to receive waveform fingerprints from a client or mobile device and perform analysis on the waveform fingerprints to provide enhanced social functions to the user of the device. In particular embodiments the determined location of the client device may be enhanced through waveform analysis. For example if a user is in a particular venue the waveform fingerprints captured by his mobile device will match the waveform fingerprints uploaded by other users. If any of the other users locations converge or if one of the users makes an explicit on network statement that he or she is at the venue either through a check in operation or a comment the social networking system may update and enhance the user s inaccurately determined position.

In particular embodiments received waveform fingerprints may be matched to a database of waveforms for pushing suggestions advertisements and other content to users. For example if a user is in a particular location and the waveform fingerprint uploaded by his or her mobile device matches the fingerprint of a particular song stored in an audio database the social networking system may ask the user if he or she would like to purchase the song for download may suggest similar songs artists to the user or target the user for marketing based on his musical taste. In particular embodiments the detected song may be posted to the wall of the user as a currently listening to story or widget.

In particular embodiments received waveform fingerprints matching the fingerprint of an object in the audio store may be substituted for explicit graph connections. For example if three of a user s friends capture and upload waveforms matching a particular television program or movie the social networking system may infer a connection from those three users to the matched program and suggest the matched program to the user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may prompt the user to submit a review for the identified content. In particular embodiments the server may classify matches as high or low confidence and in the case of a low confidence match transmit a command to the client devices generating the partially patching waveform fingerprints to capture ambient audio data at a specific time and duration for retransmission and analysis to the server. Thus the server may determine whether particular waveforms match to a high degree of confidence. This disclosure provides a method of capturing the ambient sounds around a user for enhanced social functions.

In particular embodiments the front end may interact with client device through network cloud . Client device is generally a computer or computing device including functionality for communicating e.g. remotely over a computer network. Client device may be a desktop computer laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA in or out of car navigation system smart phone or other cellular or mobile phone or mobile gaming device among other suitable computing devices. Client device may execute one or more client applications such as a web browser e.g. Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome and Opera etc. or special purpose client application e.g. Facebook for iPhone etc. to access and view content over a computer network. Front end may include web or HTTP server functionality as well as other functionality to allow users to access the social networking system. Network cloud generally represents a network or collection of networks such as the Internet or a corporate intranet or a combination of both over which client devices may access the social network system.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place reviews comments check in activity data and the like . Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . As discussed above a created place may correspond to a hub node which an administrator can claim for purposes of augmenting the information about the place and for creating ads or other offers to be delivered to users. In particular embodiments system front end may construct and serve a web page of a place as requested by a user. In some embodiments a web page of a place may include selectable components for a user to like the place or check in to the place. In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of a user associated with a check in. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments location database may store a geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. For example a geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid of the shape. For example additional information of a place can be business hours photos or user reviews of the place. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop and the social networking system can store the created place in location database . For example location database may store a user s check in activities. For example location database may store a user s geographic location provided by the user s GPS equipped mobile device. In particular embodiments the social networking system may calculate one or more routes of a user based on the user s user profile information check in activities and or geographic location data reported by a client application see above and store the one or more routes in location database . For example the social networking system can calculate a commute route of a user between the user s home and work as described in the user s user profile information stored in user profile database by using a mapping service application such as Google Map or by using geographic location data points from the user s GPS equipped mobile phone while the user is driving to work.

Waveform matching application matches waveforms or waveform fingerprints uploaded by client devices to waveforms or waveform fingerprints in audio database . In particular embodiments waveform matching application utilizes feature detection using Fast Fourier Transforms FFTs or Direct Cosine Transforms DCTs . In particular embodiments cross correlation in either the frequency or time domain is utilized for waveform matching. In particular embodiments dynamic waveform matching DWM may be utilized to shift the waveforms on the time axis. In particular embodiments waveform matching application utilizes audio fingerprinting of the waveform files in audio database . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method or algorithm for waveform or waveform fingerprint matching.

In particular embodiments client device may include hardware and software . In particular embodiments hardware may include any number of hardware components such as for example and without limitation processor memory storage transceiver input output device e.g. display touch screen keypad microphone speaker etc. camera global positioning system GPS sensor sensors hub notification control switch RFID reader RF sensor accelerometer light sensor microphone which may be part of input output block and so on. This disclosure contemplates any suitable hardware components. In particular embodiments some or all of a user s user data may be stored in storage .

In particular embodiments software may include an operating system which may include a kernel and or any number of device drivers corresponding to some of the hardware components available on client device . Operating system may be selected for client device based on the actual type of device client device is. For example if client device is a mobile device e.g. a smart phone then operating system may be a mobile operating system such as for example and without limitation Microsoft s Windows Mobile Google s Android Nokia s Symbian Apple s iOS and Samsung s Bada.

In particular embodiments one or more software applications may be executed on client device . In particular embodiments they may be native applications installed and residing on client device . For example one application e.g. Google Maps may enable a device user to view a map search for addresses and businesses and get directions a second application may enable the device user to read send and receive mails a third application e.g. a web browser may enable the device user to browse and search the Internet a fourth application may enable the device user to take photos or record videos using camera a fifth application may allow the device user to receive and initiate VoIP and or cellular network calls and so on. In particular embodiments there may be a software application e.g. notification control that enables the device user to manage the notifications pushed to client device . Each software application may have a user interface and may implement one or more specific functionalities. Each software application may include one or more software modules implementing the individual functionalities. The executable code of software applications may be stored in a computer readable and non transitory medium e.g. storage or memory on client device . In particular embodiments non native web based applications interact with the hardware of client device through various application program interfaces APIs to allow use of the microphone and other subsystems of client device . For example a web application or plug in at www.google.com voice may permit the user to utilize the microphone subsystem of client device to make VoIP calls directly from the web browser residing on client device .

Audio capture application is operably connected to microphone and sensor hub in particular embodiments audio capture application continuously captures audio data and converts it into a waveform fingerprint using audio feature detection algorithms FFT DCT etc. . In particular embodiments audio capture application only periodically captures waveform data and converts the data into waveform fingerprints. In particular embodiments sensor hub captures and stores waveform data via microphone and stores the waveforms in storage for later fingerprint generation by audio capture application . In particular embodiments audio capture application runs only when the user changes location. In particular embodiments audio capture application runs only when the detected sound level exceeds a predetermined number of decibels. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of capturing ambient audio data.

In user node has performed an explicit on network action such as RSVPing to an event checking in to a location or being tagged in a location or event for an event page in this case John and Jane s Wedding. Thus the social network immediately knows upon finding matching waveform fingerprints to the fingerprints transmitted by user node that the users transmitting the matching fingerprints are also in the same location and attending the same event. Thus user nodes and may be placed at the same location and a corrected location may be transmitted to user node user of . In particular embodiments the type of event can be used to determine whether to alter the device settings of the users. For example given that the social network knows that user nodes and are attending a wedding it may transmit a command to automatically change the client device settings to silent or vibrate. 

In particular embodiments the social networking system compares uploaded waveform fingerprints to fingerprints uploaded by other users in the search area as well as audio database . For example in the social network determines that user nodes and are in the same location. It may also compare the uploaded waveform fingerprints to an audio database of the voice of every single user of the social networking system. For example the social networking system may detect the voice of the pastor of the wedding represented on the social networking system by user node . Thus the social networking system may maintain a database of user locations for every member that is updated any time the member s voice is detected. In particular embodiments the social networking system may even maintain a location database of users who are not members of the social network by assigning an arbitrary placeholder user node for each detected voice. In particular embodiments to reduce search time the social network may search waveform fingerprints uploaded by a particular user to the audio fingerprints in audio database of the voices of the particular user s friends. In particular embodiments the social network may first search the user s friends who are currently in the same geographic quadrant as the uploading user. Thus in particular embodiments search time may be greatly reduced relative to searching every single stored voice fingerprint in audio database .

At Step audio capture application performs feature detection on the waveform and analyzes waveform characteristics also referred to as the waveform DNA. Feature detection step may include in particular embodiments identifying spikes in the audio waveform predominance or lack of a particular frequency band or other trends in waveform amplitude. In particular embodiments the feature detection is implemented via an FFT or DCT. In particular embodiments other frequency domain transforms may be utilized to identify key characteristics of the waveform such as how much treble or bass is present in the waveform. In particular embodiments audio capture application utilizes a discrete wavelet transform. In particular embodiments audio capture application utilizes a short time Fourier transform. In particular embodiments audio capture application detects a fundamental frequency of the waveform. In particular embodiments audio capture application filters noise components from the captured waveform. In particular embodiments audio capture application utilizes a form of event onset detection to create a beat model for the captured waveform. In particular embodiments audio capture application generates a beat histogram for the waveform. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method or algorithm for audio waveform feature detection.

At Step an audio fingerprint is generated for one or more waveforms. The fingerprint is a small robust representation that summarizes the waveform or collection of waveforms. For example in particular embodiments waveforms may be captured and analyzed periodically at one sample per second. Each waveform captured may be analyzed for feature detection and audio capture application may aggregate a number of waveforms having similar features perhaps 100 200 waveforms and generate a fingerprint for the aggregate waveform representing a song video or soundtrack to a movie. In particular embodiments audio capture application uses vector quantization to generate representative vectors as the waveform fingerprint. In particular embodiments audio capture application utilizes spectrogram peaks such as those used in the Shazam song recognition software as the captured waveform fingerprint. Techniques for generating waveform fingerprints are known in the art. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of generating fingerprints for the captured waveform or waveforms.

At Step client device transmits the fingerprint generated in Step to a server. In particular embodiments the server is the system front end of the social networking system. In particular embodiments client device transmits the fingerprint directly to one or more servers running audio matching application . This disclosure contemplates any suitable mechanism of transmitting the waveform fingerprints to audio matching application . The one or more servers running audio matching application receive the transmitted fingerprint at Step .

At Step the received fingerprint is searched against a database of fingerprints stored in audio database . In particular embodiments audio database stores fingerprints of various different formats so that fingerprints generated by a different method may still be compared to the stored fingerprints in particular embodiments audio database stores waveforms and the fingerprints for the stored waveforms are dynamically generated. If no matches are found the process ends at Step .

If a match is found at Step information relating to the object associated with the matching fingerprint is pulled from the social networking system. In particular embodiments this information is stored in audio database . In particular embodiments the information may be stored in a separate object or node database in the social networking system. In particular embodiments the information may be metadata attached to the waveform stored in audio database . The information may comprise general characteristics such as the artist song title album title date of recording etc. and social characteristics such as how many of the user s friends have liked commented on or otherwise interacted with the object. In particular embodiments the information may be other songs performed by the artist or other types of music in the genre. This disclosure contemplates any type of information related to the object associated with the matching waveform fingerprint.

At Step the social networking system may optionally perform on network actions such as automatically tagging the object in a photo automatically liking the object for a user or posting a story to the user s news feed. For example the social networking application may have a now playing or now listening watching area of the user profile or news feed and update the feed with the object associated with the matching waveform. In particular embodiments the social networking system may tag a photo of the event with a tag of the songs that were played at the event. In particular embodiments the photo need not be uploaded by the same user who uploaded the waveform fingerprint so long as the social network may determine that the user attended the event. This disclosure contemplates any manner of on network actions for the user.

At Step the server transmits the information to client device and at Step the information is received at client device . The client device at Step may then display the information in various graphical representations to the user. For example client device may display the album art and song information to the user. In particular embodiments client device may prompt the user as to whether the user would like to purchase download like or post a review about the detected object. In particular embodiments client device may also display social information to the user such as the number of friends who liked or became a fan of the artist associated with the object. In particular embodiments client device may display suggestions pushed from the social network to the user. In particular embodiments the user may select the suggested song or artist to listen to their work. This disclosure contemplates any manner of displaying received information at client device to the user.

Audio object database is not limited to songs. For example the social networking system may determine whether a particular user is watching a movie or TV program. In particular embodiments audio object database stores a fingerprint for each user of the social network s voice. Thus it is possible to determine the location of a user speaking to the uploading user even if the speaker does not have his or her mobile device. In such an embodiment the social networking system may automatically tag the detected speaker into the physical location associated with the uploading user. Therefore it is possible for the social networking system to track the physical location of its users even those without mobile devices connected to the social network based on voice matching.

At Step audio matching algorithm pulls uploaded waveforms from the same general time and area as the uploading user. The location may be ascertained through GPS coordinates TDOA or a self reported location such as a check in. In particular embodiments the geographic search area decreases for areas in which a large number of fingerprints are being uploaded as previously described with reference to .

At Step upon obtaining a matching fingerprint or fingerprints the social networking system pulls location data associated with the one or more matching fingerprints. For example if a particular user s uploaded fingerprints match three other users uploaded fingerprints and one of the three other users has checked in to a particular location then the location data for the check in is pulled and transmitted to the client devices of the three users that did not check in. In particular embodiments the social networking system may average the geographic locations or find the point equidistant to all the locations of users uploading matching waveforms. For example if three other users uploaded audio fingerprints match the user s uploaded fingerprint the social networking system may calculate a point equidistant to the three other users locations. In particular embodiments the social networking system searches for position outliers for example if three of the four users with matching uploaded fingerprints are extremely close and one is several hundred feet away the social networking system may infer that the location of the outlier user is inaccurate.

At Step the network may perform actions as previously described. In particular embodiments the social networking system may check the uploading user in to the location obtained in Step .

At Step after receiving the location information from the server in Step client device updates its self determined location with the location obtained in Step . In some cases it may be to the location of a physical check in. In particular embodiments it is updated to comport with the location of other uses with matching waveforms. In particular embodiments client device prompts the user as to whether he wishes to check in to the venue. In particular embodiments client device prompts the user whether he wishes to update his location. This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of updating the self determined position of client device .

At Step the server transmits instructions to all clients whose uploaded fingerprints produced the low confidence match to begin capturing ambient audio data at a specific time and duration. In particular embodiments this instruction may also instruct the client devices to perform fingerprint analysis via an alternative method. In particular embodiments the alternative method is determined by the degree of confidence of the match. In particular embodiments the alternative method is determined by the percent of the uploaded fingerprints that match. In particular embodiments this instruction may inform the clients to capture audio at a higher quality. The client devices receiving this instruction comply and transmit the subsequently generated waveforms to the server.

In Step the server and waveform matching application receive the fingerprints and compares them in Step . Because the fingerprints capture the exact same moment in time the fingerprints generated from these waveforms should produce an extremely high confidence match. Thus waveform matching application can ascertain with a high degree of confidence that the uploading users are in the same location. In particular embodiments this high confidence match can be matched with the fingerprints of user voices in audio database to determine which of the users is speaking. In particular embodiments the users may be all auto tagged in the location. In particular embodiments the users may not be explicitly tagged but stored in a user location database for the delivery of advertisements or suggestions.

The process of thus allows the social network to increase the confidence of any two partially matching fingerprints by coordinating waveform capture to the same temporal window. This disclosure contemplates multiple variations of this technique such as for example multiple stages of fingerprint matching wherein each stage instructs the client devices to capture a longer waveform.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on one or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

