---

title: On-demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment
abstract: An example method for facilitating on-demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment is provided and includes receiving a request from a client at a first network for accommodating flow characteristics at a second network that is associated with executing an application at the first network, determining that the request cannot be fulfilled with available network resources allocated to the client by the second network, advising the client of additional cost for accommodating the flow characteristics, and authorizing additional network resources in the second network to accommodate the flow characteristics after receiving notification from the client of payment of the additional cost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300538&OS=09300538&RS=09300538
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09300538
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140710
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to on demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment.

Over recent years as the Internet and cloud networks have evolved increasing requirements for bandwidth intensive applications such as peer to peer file sharing tele working Video on Demand and high definition TV have resulted in relentlessly increasing demands for higher broadband bandwidth provisioning. Each of myriad competing technologies providing bandwidth for broadband services has various limitations in terms of bandwidth reliability cost or coverage. Network operators currently bear most of the costs and risks of maintaining and upgrading the network for the heavy network usage but have little ability to monetize the usage. The lack of demand visibility together with lack of a feedback loop between the network and applications forces operators to over provision the network to minimize service degradation or to use best effort service delivery potentially impacting their ability to offer and get value added revenue from customized services based on application type subscriber profile customer end point device and location and other characteristics.

An example method for facilitating on demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment is provided and includes receiving a request from a client at a first network for accommodating flow characteristics at a second network that is associated with executing an application at the first network determining that the request cannot be fulfilled with available network resources allocated to the client by the second network advising the client of additional cost for accommodating the flow characteristics and authorizing additional network resources in the second network to accommodate the flow characteristics after receiving notification from the client of payment of the additional cost.

As used herein the term flow characteristics includes network requirements needed or preferred by the flow comprising bandwidth e.g. upstream and downstream jitter tolerance delay tolerance and loss tolerance. Note that bandwidth is understood to mean an amount of traffic over a network per unit time jitter refers to undesired deviation from true periodicity of an assumed periodic signal and may be observed in characteristics such as frequency of successive pulses signal amplitude or phase of periodic signals delay specifies how long it takes for a bit of data to travel across the network from one node or endpoint to another loss occurs when one or more packets of data travelling across a computer network fail to reach their destination.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating a communication system for facilitating on demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment in accordance with one example embodiment. illustrates a communication system comprising a customer premises network that subscribes to an access network . Customer premises network may include a client and a proxy . Client may communicate through proxy with a server at access network . Server may be configured with a flow accommodator . Client may receive content from a content provider over access network and or may access applications and computing resources from cloud service through access network and or may communicate with various devices over access network .

According to various embodiments client though proxy in customer premises network may signal server in access network that additional network resources e.g. bandwidth for a specific duration is required. Server may signal that requested flow characteristics can be met for the specific duration at additional cost e.g. in dollar amount or other payment option . If customer premises network accepts the offer and pays the additional cost the requested flow characteristics may be accommodated by access network .

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of communication system it is important to understand the communications that may be traversing the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Application enabled open networking AEON allows applications to explicitly signal their flow characteristics to the network providing network nodes with visibility of the application flow characteristics. Identification and treatment of application flows can be important to many application providers and network operators who may rely on these capabilities to deploy and or support a wide range of applications. The applications generate flows that may have specific flow characteristics including bandwidth latency etc. that can be met if made known to the network.

Historically visibility into application flow characteristics has been accomplished to the extent possible using heuristics to inspect and infer flow characteristics. Heuristics such as implemented on application level gateway ALGs may be based on port ranges network separation or deep packet inspection DPI . Port based solutions suffer from port overloading and inconsistent port usage. Network separation solutions are error prone and result in network management hassle. DPI is computationally expensive and becomes a challenge with the wider adoption of encrypted signaling and secured traffic. An additional drawback of DPI is that the resulting insights are not available or need to be recomputed at network nodes further down the application flow path. Moreover many application flows can be dynamic adaptive time bound encrypted peer to peer asymmetric with different priorities depending on direction of the flow and the recipients and protocols used and other factors which can render heuristics based approaches less effective.

With AEON network nodes may take action based on the visibility and or contribute to the flow description without having to resort to DPI. The resulting flow description may be communicated as feedback from the network to applications. AEON advocates a protocol and application independent information model and individual data models that enable explicit communication between applications and networks. AEON permits applications to explicitly signal their flow characteristics to the network and to receive resulting flow descriptions as feedback from the network.

Applications can have disparate network requirements which translate to different flow characteristics based on the inherent nature of their traffic. For example web and electronic mail may use high throughput data with variable rate bursty long lived elastic flows with low tolerance to loss medium to high tolerance to delay and high tolerance to jitter real time traffic such as voice may use telephony services with fixed size small packets constant emission rate inelastic and low rate flows with very low tolerances to delay loss and jitter multimedia conferencing may use variable size packets constant transmit interval rate adaptive loss reactive transmission with low to medium tolerance to loss medium tolerance to delay and high tolerance to jitter etc.

Various gaming applications may have different flow characteristics. For example omnipresent games e.g. Real Time Strategies have a threshold of acceptable latency e.g. specifying performance is above 75 of the unimpaired performance of 1000 ms. Role playing games and massively multiplayer online role playing games such as Third Person Avatar have a threshold of acceptable latency of 500 ms. Games with a first person avatar e.g. Call of Duty Halo have a threshold of acceptable latency of 100 ms. The network may react to such different flow characteristics with differentiated services such as priorities for some flows relative to others e.g. priority queuing rate queuing active queue management traffic conditioning assured forwarding etc.

AEON can facilitate providing differentiated services for both directions of a flow including flows that cross administrative boundaries. In a particular example AEON allows endpoints to program the network through protocols like port control protocol PCP . At a high level PCP provides bi directional communication of flows between devices in a network. PCP can recursively communicate flow information to a number of on path devices using PCP itself or using an SDN protocol. Such recursion provides flow information to more devices on the path allowing each of them to optimize the flow over their respective links. In particular PCP provides a FLOWDATA option that allows a host to signal the bi directional flow characteristics to its PCP server. After signaling the PCP server determines if it can accommodate the flow characteristics making configuration changes e.g. to network resources if necessary to accommodate the flow and returns information in the FLOWDATA option indicating its ability to accommodate the described flow characteristics.

Access networks often have insufficient bandwidth or other network characteristics that prevent some applications from functioning as well as desired. Although the quality of wireless and wired access networks continue to improve some access networks are often constrained for various reasons. With AEON the host can describe flow characteristics to the network and the network can indicate its ability or inability to accommodate the flow characteristics.

For example enterprises could have large amounts of data to be exported to a cloud service such as for Big Data Analytics. The amount of data to be exported could be a few hundred GB or TB. Upload of such large amount of data from the enterprise network to the cloud service over the access network may be constrained by the limited upload speed available at the access network. On the other hand the enterprise network may not require fast upload speeds at all times as the big data upload may be infrequent. Thus there is a need to provide fast upload speeds and or higher bandwidth at certain times but not at other times. One of the many ways the problem is solved is by copying the large amount of data to portable storage devices which are shipped to the cloud service vendor. In another example viewers in a home network may watch 3D movies on a random schedule. However if the access network cannot meet the demand for additional bandwidth the viewer s viewing experience will not be satisfactory. There may be a need to provide additional bandwidth for the duration of the movie.

Communication system is configured to address these issues among others to offer a system and method for facilitating on demand bandwidth provisioning in a network environment. According to various embodiments server can receive a request from client at customer premises network for accommodating flow characteristics e.g. needed by an application executing on client associated with executing an application at client in customer premises network . The application may comprise by way of examples and not as limitations a 3D movie streaming application a web conferencing application a gaming application etc. Flow accommodator at server may determine that the request cannot be fulfilled with available network resources allocated to client by access network and may respond to the request advising client about additional cost for accommodating the flow characteristics. Note that flow accommodator can make such determinations without having to resort to DPI. After receiving notification from client of payment of the additional cost server may authorize additional network resources in access network to accommodate the flow characteristics.

In specific embodiments server may receive a access token from client that has been issued by an authorization server e.g. operated by the ISP owning and controlling network resources in access network that is allocated to client . The access token may indicate payment of the additional cost for accommodating the flow characteristics. Server may verify the access token with the authorization server and accept the access token as notification of payment if the authorization server validates the access token. In some embodiments the access token can include information about the flow characteristics and the additional cost and the payment made on behalf of client .

Note that customer premises network can include one or more client s . In an example embodiment a customer premises router e.g. home router at customer premises network can implement proxy and a Carrier Grade Network Address Translation CGN server or a suitable gateway at access network can implement server . In general proxy acts as a server receiving requests from client on its internal interfaces e.g. facing client and acts as a client forwarding accepted requests on an external interface to server . Server in turn send replies to proxy s external interface and the replies are finally forwarded to client by proxy .

According to some embodiments client e.g. host can authenticate to proxy and proxy can authenticate to server . For example in embodiments where PCP is used proxy may authenticate client using extensible authentication protocol EAP . The EAP messages may be encapsulated within appropriate PCP packets during transportation.

Client may signal flow characteristics to proxy . Proxy may signal the flow characteristics to access network to determine if the request can be met. Server may signal back that it cannot meet the requested flow characteristics and may also convey the additional cost for accommodating the flow characteristics. Proxy may propagate the additional cost metadata back to client . If the subscriber user e.g. human operator pays the additional cost access network may return a cryptographic access token. Client may transmit the cryptographic access token to server e.g. in an ACCESS TOKEN option in a PEER MAP Request with a FLOWDATA option . Access network prioritizes the flow using the request received from proxy and proxy informs client that the request is satisfied by access network .

In another embodiment for example where customer premises network comprises an enterprise network proxy may inform an enterprise portal e.g. using Representational state transfer REST protocol about additional bandwidth needed by a critical application and the additional cost levied by access network . The enterprise portal may authenticate to access network initiate payment and receive the cryptographic access token after payment confirmation. The enterprise portal may signal the access token to proxy which in turn may convey it to server e.g. in an ACCESS TOKEN option in a PCP PEER MAP request . Server may validate the access token and prioritize the flow accordingly. If negotiation with access network fails enterprise portal may inform proxy which in turn signals back to client that the request cannot be satisfied.

Note some embodiments can provide provider to provider quality of service QoS e.g. among a small set of providers using various appropriate considerations for example using PCP. In some embodiments proxy in customer premises network and server in access network can also penalize lower priority flows to accommodate the higher priority flow. For example mechanisms such as Allocation and Retention priority ARP such as used in mobile networks can accommodate high priority flow by penalizing low priority flows. In embodiments wherein PCP is used as a protocol for the communication described herein not all switches and routers in access network need to be PCP aware. Server in access network can convey the flow information to a software defined network SDN controller e.g. which acts as a policy decision point for example using REST and the SDN controller may install appropriate QoS rules against the flow on the on path network devices.

In some embodiments communication system may allow feedback on pricing including bidding for services e.g. with various tiers of pricing for different portions of flow characteristics negotiating service level versus price e.g. authorizing a portion of flow characteristics according to partial payment and dynamically varying the price for accommodating the flow characteristics based on market feedback e.g. additional cost may vary in time for same flow characteristics from same client additional cost may vary simultaneously across different clients in different customer premises networks etc. 

Note that any suitable protocol amenable to communicating flow characteristics additional cost and payment with appropriate authentication and security can be used for the communication operations described herein within the broad scope of the embodiments. For example protocols that are lightweight e.g. without requiring too many resources on client and server support authentication and authorization allow adding meta data e.g. flow characteristics and facilitate extensions e.g. to permit communication of additional data etc. may be suitable for use in embodiments described herein. Examples of such protocols can include PCP and STUN.

Turning to the infrastructure of communication system the network topology of networks and can include any number of servers hardware accelerators virtual machines switches including distributed virtual switches routers and other nodes inter connected to form a large and complex network. A node may be any electronic device client server peer service application or other object capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over communications channels in a network. Elements of may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection wired or wireless which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications. Additionally any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs.

Communication system may include a configuration capable of TCP IP communications for the electronic transmission or reception of data packets in a network. Communication system may also operate in conjunction with a User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition gateways routers switches and any other suitable nodes physical or virtual may be used to facilitate electronic communication between various nodes in the network.

Note that the numerical and letter designations assigned to the elements of do not connote any type of hierarchy the designations are arbitrary and have been used for purposes of teaching only. Such designations should not be construed in any way to limit their capabilities functionalities or applications in the potential environments that may benefit from the features of communication system . It should be understood that communication system shown in is simplified for ease of illustration.

The example network environment may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include one or more networks and further may be configured in any form including but not limited to local area networks LANs wireless local area networks WLANs VLANs metropolitan area networks MANs VPNs Intranet Extranet any other appropriate architecture or system or any combination thereof that facilitates communications in a network.

In some embodiments a communication link may represent any electronic link supporting a LAN environment such as for example cable Ethernet wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11x ATM fiber optics etc. or any suitable combination thereof. In other embodiments communication links may represent a remote connection through any appropriate medium e.g. digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof and or through any additional networks such as a wide area networks e.g. the Internet .

In various embodiments customer premises network can include a home network enterprise network or any other suitable local area network. In various embodiments access network provides transport bearer capabilities for provision of telecommunications services between a service node interface providing customer access to a service node and associated interfaces towards one or more customer premises network s such as customer premises network . Access network may be operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP who facilitates accessing using or participating in the Internet. In some embodiments access network can include core networks e.g. providing high speed Layer2 Layer 3 transport between various network modules such as campuses data centers Internet and wide area networks.

In various embodiments client proxy and server can comprise physical machines in other embodiments client proxy and server can comprise virtual machines instantiated on physical machines in yet other embodiments some of client proxy and server may comprise physical machines and the others may comprise virtual machines. In some embodiments client may be instantiated on a media player or other computing device in customer premises network proxy may be instantiated on a router in customer premises network server may be instantiated in any suitable computing device or network element at access network . In embodiments wherein PCP is used client proxy and server may be PCP aware. Server may execute in a network element such as a firewall or network address translation NAT appliance and may comprise a capability of such appliance. In some embodiments server may also be provided on another network element that communicates with the actual NAT or firewall for example via some proprietary mechanism that is transparent to proxy .

In various embodiments flow accommodator can comprise an application executing at server . Note that an application as used herein this Specification can be inclusive of an executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer and may further include library modules loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules. In other embodiments flow accommodator can comprise software modules that interact with other server applications for example a PCP aware server application.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of communication system . According to various embodiments customer premises network may include client and optionally an enterprise portal and proxy which is not shown . In some embodiments replicated instances of the same functions may be included in multiple nodes e.g. client and enterprise portal . For example enterprise portal may comprise a browser executing on the same server as client and using the same hardware e.g. processor and memory elements . Client may include a request generation module that generates a request for accommodating flow characteristics the request may be forwarded to server in access network .

Flow accommodator located at server may comprise a request processing module and a resource allocation determination module . Request processing module may examine the request and resource allocation determination module may determine whether client is allocated network resources e.g. network elements computing elements memory elements appropriate network configurations etc. necessary to accommodate requested flow characteristics . If client is not allocated sufficient network resources a further determination may be made whether client is authorized more network resources for example under a service level agreement SLA or other agreement between customer premises network and access network . If client is not authorized for more network resources sufficient to meet flow characteristics a cost computation module in flow accommodator may compute an additional cost to accommodate flow characteristics . Server may send client computed additional cost necessary for accommodating flow characteristics by access network .

A response processing module at client may process the response with additional cost and make a decision e.g. with human intervention whether additional cost may be paid. In an example embodiment where PCP is used to communicate the requests and responses described herein response processing module may be configured to recognize specific options in PCP message. Thus response processing module may be configured to recognize additional cost as an option to be processed in the PCP response from server . Response processing module may also be configured to generate a message to the user e.g. human requesting a decision whether to pay additional cost .

If the decision is to proceed with paying additional cost a payment module may contact an authorization server with information about additional cost flow characteristics and a payment for additional cost . Authorization server may execute a suitable authorization code such as OAuth. For example OAuth provides client applications a secure delegated access to server resources on behalf of a resource owner such as the ISP operating access network . It specifies a process for resource owners to authorize third party access to their server resources without sharing their credentials. Designed specifically to work with Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP OAuth allows access tokens e.g. access token is an object encapsulating the security identity of a process or thread and contains security credentials for a login session and identifies a user the user s groups the user s privileges and a particular application to be issued to third party clients e.g. 16 by an authorization server e.g. 46 with the approval of the resource owner e.g. ISP operating access network . Note that OAuth is described here merely for example purposes any suitable authorization code may be implemented by the authorization server within the broad scope of the embodiments. The communication between client and authorization server may proceed through appropriate secure and encrypted protocols in addition to other protocols such as representational state transfer protocol REST .

Authorization server may include a payment module that inspects the information about additional cost and flow characteristics and accepts the payment for additional cost . In some embodiments the payment may cover only a portion of additional cost in such cases payment module may authorize only a portion of flow characteristics that is covered by the payment. An access token may be issued by an access token module in authorization server . Access token module may store the information about additional cost authorized flow characteristics and the payment against access token in an information store . In various embodiments access token comprises a handle e.g. a pointer pointing to a location of the stored information in authorization server . Thus the information in information store may indicate the amount of money paid by client and the specific flow identity associated with the payment. Authorization server may transmit access token to client .

Payment module may forward access token to server . An authorization module at server may inspect access token and send a verification request to authorization server with information about access token and flow characteristics . A verification module in authorization server looks up information store and verifies access token against the contents stored therein. Access token may be verified by authorization server and the verification transmitted to server subsequently server may authorize additional network resources as appropriate to accommodate flow characteristics .

In various embodiments server may use a memory element and a processor for performing its operations as described herein likewise client may use another memory element and another processor for performing its operations as described herein. In some embodiments enterprise portal may be implemented on the same server as client and can share memory element and processor in addition to software modules such as payment module . Authorization server may use yet another memory element and yet another processor for performing the operations attributed to authorization server as described herein. Note that the various functional modules depicted in the figure may be provided by components of the respective operating systems browser applications or specially installed application programs.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating an example packet format for communicating additional cost to client according to an embodiment of communication system . Example packet format can include information pertaining to the version of the protocol operation to be performed lifetime assigned e.g. to the session client s IP address e.g. to detect any unexpected NAT in the path optional OpCode specific information e.g. pertaining to the operation to be performed and an options field which includes information of additional cost .

In a general sense options field can be used in requests e.g. from client and responses e.g. from server . Unlike usually used information in the Opcode specific field information in options field may be used only as needed. Recognizing and processing information in options field can be more complicated than if it were absent hence response processing module in client may be configured e.g. programmed encoded etc. to recognize and process additional cost in options field . For example response processing module may recognize that additional cost is present in a communication from server and may trigger further actions such as informing a user e.g. human operator via an alert that a payment is needed to obtain additional network resources. If response processing module does not observe any additional cost in the communication from server no further action for payment may be triggered.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of communication system . Client may request access to resources controlled by a resource owner who also owns authorization server . The request may include flow characteristics that client wants and additional cost for payment. A financial transaction may occur between authorization server and client in some embodiments in other embodiments client may complete the financial transaction with yet another server at access network and may obtain verification of payment therefrom which may be included in the request to authorization server . After payment is completed client may obtain access token comprising an access token value. Client may convey access token in an appropriate option to access protected resources hosted by server . Server may validate access token with authorization server and take appropriate action if access token is authorized by authorization server .

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating an example packet format for communicating access token to server . In a general sense access token may include a pointer which can comprise credentials to access protected resources. The access token includes a string e.g. of bytes representing an authorization issued to client by authorization server . The access token may denote an identifier used to retrieve authorization information in a verifiable manner e.g. signature with key etc. . For example the authorization may comprise a pointer value to stored information in authorization server . Note that access token may not be a larger size than that prescribed by the relevant protocol for example PCP messages may specify a maximum length of 1100 octets for access token .

Turning to is a simplified sequence diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with an embodiment of communication system . A home user e.g. human may want to watch a particular 3D movie from a content provider across access network . Note that the example of a 3D movie is provided herein merely for ease of explanation and should not be construed as a limitation of any embodiment of communication system . At home user may request client which may comprise a multi media player to watch the 3D movie. At client may send an authentication message destined to proxy which may comprise a home router. Proxy may authenticate client appropriately. At proxy may send another authentication message to server . Server may authenticate proxy appropriately. At client may send a request to prioritize the flow according to flow characteristics for example in a FLOWDATA option in an appropriate message. At proxy may forward the request including flow characteristics to server .

At server may verify the flow request for example to determine whether client has authority to access and use additional network resources required according to flow characteristics . If the verification fails for example sufficient network resources are not allocated to client at access network at a failure message may be sent to client indicating that flow characteristics can be met with additional cost . At proxy may forward the failure message to client . At client may query home user whether to pay more to watch the 3D movie. For example the query may comprise a pop up message on a display screen connected to client informing home user that additional cost is needed to meet flow characteristics of the 3D movie for better user experience with a button e.g. clickable space or other software construct on the display screen for agreeing to pay the additional cost. At home user may respond affirmatively. At client may contact OAuth server pay additional cost and obtain access token . In some embodiments communication between client and OAuth server may be according to REST protocol.

At client may forward flow characteristics and access token options including access token to proxy . Proxy may forward flow characteristics and ACCESS TOKEN options including access token to server . At server may validate access token and flow metadata e.g. including flow characteristics with OAuth server . At OAuth server may verify access token and flow metadata including flow characteristics with information stored therein. At OAuth server may authorize access token and the flow metadata. At client may establish a connection e.g. using TCP protocols with content provider which can comprise any suitable server or other network element. At content provider may stream video content to client .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with an embodiment of communication system . At server may receive a request from client for accommodating flow characteristics . At server may determine whether network resources are available and allocated to client . If so at the request may be allowed. But if it is determined that network resources are not available or not allocated to client at server may calculate additional cost for accommodating flow characteristics . At server may respond to the request advising client of additional cost e.g. pay additional cost to accommodate flow characteristics . At server may receive access token from client issued by authorization server . At server may verify access token with authorization server . At a determination may be made whether access token is validated by authorization server . One the one hand if access token is not validated by authorization server at the request may be denied.

On the other hand if access token is validated by authorization server at additional network resources may be authorized. For example server may interface with a SDN controller to configure network elements in the flow path for accommodating flow characteristics . In another example server may contact a policy decision point in the network to facilitate deployment of additional network elements and network resources e.g. bandwidth to accommodate flow characteristics . Any suitable authorization action may be performed by server to facilitate accommodating flow characteristics within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with an embodiment of communication system . At client may generate a request to server for accommodating flow characteristics . In some embodiments client may calculate flow characteristics based on application requirements predicted bandwidth usage and other appropriate parameters. At client may send the request to server requesting accommodating of flow characteristics . At client may receive information from server about additional cost . At client may transact payment of additional cost with authorization server . Note that in some embodiments client may pay a portion of additional cost for accommodating a portion of flow characteristics . At client may receive access token from authorization server . At client may send access token to server . At client may initiate connection with additional network resources that can accommodate flow characteristics that has been paid for.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with authorization server according to an embodiment of communication system . At authorization server may receive from client payment for additional cost associated with flow characteristics . At authorization server may verify sufficiency of payment e.g. credit card payment authorized user has sufficient funds to cover payment bank payment authorized appropriate entry added to monthly bill payment covers additional cost etc. At authorization server may issue access token . At authorization server may store the payment information and flow characteristics for client against access token . In some embodiments the payment may be partial and only a portion of flow characteristics may be authorized such payment and portion of flow characteristics may be stored. At authorization server may send access token to client .

At authorization server may receive an access token verification request from server including flow characteristics and access token . At authorization server verifies that access token is valid for example by looking up the stored information and matching access token . In some embodiments for example where client pays only a portion of additional cost only a portion of flow characteristics may be authorized in such scenarios authorization server may partially validate access token . At authorization server sends the verification to server informing server that flow characteristics or a specific portion thereof can be accepted from client e.g. in other words authorization server informs server about flow characteristics that client is authorized to request .

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments. Furthermore the words optimize optimization and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a specified outcome and do not purport to indicate that a process for achieving the specified outcome has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

In example implementations at least some portions of the activities outlined herein may be implemented in software in for example server and client . In some embodiments one or more of these features may be implemented in hardware provided external to these elements or consolidated in any appropriate manner to achieve the intended functionality. The various network elements e.g. client server may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments these elements may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Furthermore client and server described and shown herein and or their associated structures may also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment. Additionally some of the processors and memory elements associated with the various nodes may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory element are responsible for certain activities. In a general sense the arrangements depicted in the FIGURES may be more logical in their representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations and or hybrids of these elements. It is imperative to note that countless possible design configurations can be used to achieve the operational objectives outlined here. Accordingly the associated infrastructure has a myriad of substitute arrangements design choices device possibilities hardware configurations software implementations equipment options etc.

In some of example embodiments one or more memory elements e.g. memory elements can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software logic code etc. in non transitory media such that the instructions are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example processors e.g. processors could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

These devices may further keep information in any suitable type of non transitory storage medium e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM field programmable gate array FPGA erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked sent received or stored in communication system could be provided in any database register table cache queue control list or storage structure based on particular needs and implementations all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

