---

title: Frequency division duplex wireless communication apparatus and method
abstract: A Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) wireless communication apparatus is provided. The FDD wireless communication apparatus includes a first antenna configured to one of transmit and receive, a second antenna configured to receive, and a switch configured to selectively connect one of the first antenna and the second antenna to a receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635443&OS=09635443&RS=09635443
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09635443
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140314
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 10 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0014868 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a Frequency Division Duplex FDD wireless communication apparatus and method.

A wireless communication apparatus may use one common antenna for transmission and reception or use a separate dedicated antenna for each of transmission and reception. When the common antenna is used a transmission signal and a reception signal need to be separated for a Radio Frequency RF signal passing via one antenna.

To separate the transmission signal and the reception signal a duplexer may be used. The duplexer is connected between an antenna and a transmitter and a receiver. The duplexer provides a transmission signal output from the transmitter to the antenna and provides a reception signal received via the antenna to the receiver.

A wireless communication scheme such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA voice or Long Term Evolution LTE employs Frequency Division Duplex FDD . Typically an FDD wireless communication apparatus uses one common antenna for transmission and reception and separates a transmission signal and a reception signal by using a duplexer. In FDD the transmission signal and the reception signal may be transmitted and received at the same time via the common antenna unlike in Time Division Duplex TDD .

Accordingly an FDD wireless communication apparatus and method for improving reception sensitivity is desired.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Even when the duplexer is used in Frequency Division Duplex FDD perfect isolation between a transmission end and a reception end is not implemented in an actual. When the transmission signal is radiated an interference signal caused by the transmission signal is delivered to the reception end through air coupling degrading reception sensitivity. Moreover such interference limits increasing a transmit power.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an FDD wireless communication apparatus and method for improving reception sensitivity.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an FDD wireless communication apparatus and method for improving isolation between a transmission end and a reception end.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an FDD wireless communication apparatus and method for solving a transmit power limitation problem caused by imperfect isolation between a transmission end and a reception end.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an FDD wireless communication apparatus and method for improving reception sensitivity by using a Low Noise Amplifier LNA in a front end of a receiver.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a FDD wireless communication apparatus is provided. The FDD wireless communication apparatus includes a first antenna configured to one of transmit and receive a second antenna configured to receive and a switch configured to selectively connect one of the first antenna and the second antenna to a receiver.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a Frequency Division Duplex FDD wireless communication apparatus is provided. The FDD wireless communication apparatus includes multiple transmitters and receivers corresponding to multiple different communication bands a first antenna configured to one of transmit and receive a second antenna configured to receive a first switch configured to selectively connect the first antenna to a transmitter corresponding to a communication band used out of the multiple communication bands and a second switch configured to selectively connect one of the first antenna and the second antenna to a receiver corresponding to the used communication band through the first switch.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a FDD wireless communication method is provided. The FDD wireless communication method includes connecting one of a first antenna for one of transmitting and receiving and a second antenna for receiving to a receiver and receiving a wireless signal via the antenna connected to the receiver.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

Terms include or may include used in various embodiments of the present disclosure indicate an existence of disclosed function operation or component but do not limit an existence of at least one other function operations or components. Terms include or has used in the present disclosure should be understood that they are intended to indicate an existence of feature number step operation element component or any combination thereof disclosed in the specification but should not be understood that they are intended to previously exclude an existence of at least one other feature numbers steps operations elements components or any combination thereof or possibility of adding those things.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the term or includes any and all combinations of words listed together. For example A or B may include only A only B or both A and B.

Terms such as first or second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may be used to describe various elements of various embodiments but do not limit the elements. For example the terms do not limit an order and or importance of the elements. The terms are used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first user device and a second user device are user devices and indicate different user devices. For example without departing from the scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure a first element may be referred to as a second element and likewise the second element may be referred to as the first element.

When an element is described as being coupled to or connected to another element it should be appreciated that the former element may be directly coupled or connected to the latter element but they may be coupled or connected together through at least one intervening element. In contrast when an element is described as being directly coupled to or directly connected to another element it should be appreciated that they are coupled or connected together without the intervention of some other element.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are only used to describe particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the various embodiments of the present disclosure. The singular forms include plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein have the same meanings as generally understood by those having ordinary knowledge in the technical field to which the present disclosure pertains. Terms generally used and defined in dictionaries should be interpreted as having meanings consistent with meanings construed in the context of the related art and should not be interpreted as having ideal or excessively formal meanings unless defined explicitly in this application.

The Frequency Division Duplex FDD wireless communication apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be included in an electronic device. Examples of the electronic device may include at least one of and or combinations of a smartphone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MPEG 1 audio layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical equipment a camera and a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos or smart watches .

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart home appliance including a communication function. Examples of the smart home appliance may include at least one of a TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player audio equipment a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a laundry machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box for example Samsung s HomeSync Apple s TV or Google s TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include various medical equipment for example a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a moving camera ultrasonic equipment and so forth a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device ship electronic equipment for example a ship navigation system a gyro compass and so forth avionics security devices vehicle head units industrial and or home robots Automatic Teller s Machines of financial institutions and Points of Sales POS .

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include at least one of furniture and or a part of a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and or various measurement devices for example a water gas or electric wave measuring device .

An electronic device including an FDD wireless communication apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one and or more of the foregoing devices. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. It may also be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Referring to in the network environment the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . The bus may be a circuit that connects elements of the electronic device and delivers communication for example a control message between the elements.

The processor may receive a command from other elements for example the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface for example through the bus interprets the received command and may perform an operation and or data processing corresponding to the interpreted command.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a controller may include the processor and the memory for storing information needed by the processor . The controller may control the overall operation of the electronic device and may perform an operation corresponding to a wireless communication method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The memory may store a command and or data received from and or generated by the processor and or other elements. For example the input output interface the display and the communication interface . The memory may include for example programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each programming module may include software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two of them.

The kernel may control and or manage system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory used to execute operations and or functions implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API and or the application . The kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API and or the application accesses a separate element of the electronic device to control and or manage the element.

The middleware may perform a relay operation to allow the API and or the application to exchange data by communicating with the kernel . In association with work requests received from the application the middleware may perform control for example scheduling and or load balancing over a work request by using a method such as assigning to at least one of the application a priority for using a system resource of the electronic device . For example the bus the processor and or the memory .

The API may be an interface used for the application to control a function provided by the kernel and or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface and or function for example a command for file control window control image processing and or character control.

The input output interface may deliver a command and or a data input from a user through an input output device. For example the command and or the data input may be received via a sensor a keyboard and or a touch screen and transmitted to the processor the memory and the communication interface through the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data about a user s touch input through the touch screen to the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the input device of the input output interface may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device. The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of a capacitive resistive infrared and or ultrasonic scheme. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. For the capacitive scheme physical contact and or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In the case of a tactile layer the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to the user. The input output interface may output for example a command and or data received from the processor the memory and or the communication interface through the bus through the input output device. For example a speaker and or a display.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an external device. For example an electronic device and or a server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless communication or wired communication to communicate with the external device. Wireless communication may include for example at least one of Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . Wired communication may include at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication interface may include an FDD wireless communication device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol and or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Referring to the wireless communication apparatus may include a first antenna a second antenna a switch an RF transceiver and a Communication Processor CP . The first antenna may be a main antenna that is used for transmission or reception. The second antenna may be an antenna that used for reception. The switch may selectively connect one of the first antenna and the second antenna to a receiver of the RF transceiver . The switch is an RF switch for which a Single Pole Double Throw SPDT switch may be used.

The RF transceiver may include a transmitter and the receiver . The RF transceiver is connected to the CP . The transmitter of the RF transceiver converts a transmission baseband signal input from the CP into an RF signal and outputs the RF signal. An RF transmission signal output from the transmitter is transmitted via the first antenna . The receiver of the RF transceiver converts an RF reception signal received via the first antenna or the second antenna connected by the switch into a baseband signal and outputs the baseband signal to the CP .

The CP processes a baseband signal corresponding to transmission and reception. For example if the wireless communication apparatus is used for wireless communication of an LTE type a communication modem chip such as MDM9615M of Qualcomm may be used for the CP . The CP may be connected to a processor such as an Application Processor AP that may be included in an electronic device including the wireless communication apparatus.

A junction among the first antenna the transmitter and the switch may be one of a combination of a T junction a transmission Surface Acoustic Wave SAW filter and a reception SAW filter a circulator and a duplexer.

Switching of the switch may be controlled by the controller of the wireless communication apparatus or the electronic device. The CP may be used as the controller for controlling switching of the switch . As another example the controller may be separately implemented. As further another example the controller may be implemented with the processor such as the AP that may be included in the electronic device including the wireless communication apparatus. For example the controller may be implemented with the processor of the electronic device illustrated in . The controller may control switching of the switch based on a received signal power level.

Although not shown in like in a general wireless communication apparatus at least one Band Pass Filter BPF for bandpass filtering a received signal for a reception band may be added to a reception path and at least one BPF for bandpass filtering a transmission signal for a transmission band may be added to a transmission path. At least some of the BPFs may be included in the RF transceiver . A power amplifier for power amplifying the transmission signal may also be added to the transmission path.

Referring to the controller determines a received signal power level in operation . For example for LTE the received signal power level may be determined by measuring a Reference Signal Received Power RSRP . The controller may be the CP as described above and thus a description will be made using an example in which antenna switching control illustrated in is performed by the CP .

The CP determines whether the received signal power level is greater than or equal to a threshold value in operation . The threshold value may be preset as a level for determining whether a received electric field of the wireless communication apparatus is a weak electric field. For example for RSRP the threshold value may be set to 115 dBm. If the received signal power level is greater than or equal to the threshold value the wireless communication apparatus may be determined to be located in a strong electric field region. If the received signal power level is less than the threshold value the wireless communication apparatus may be determined to be located in a weak electric field region.

If the received signal power level is greater than or equal to the threshold value in operation the CP controls the switch to select the first antenna for connection of the first antenna to the receiver in operation . Thus the wireless communication apparatus may receive a wireless signal via the first antenna .

If the received signal power level is less than the threshold value in operation the CP controls the switch to select the second antenna for connection of the second antenna to the receiver in operation . Thus the wireless communication apparatus may receive a wireless signal via the second antenna .

The CP performs operation after operation or operation . Thus during the use of the wireless communication apparatus switching of the first antenna and the second antenna may be continued based on the received signal power level. Thus the wireless communication apparatus may transmit and receive a signal via the first antenna in the strong electric field region and may transmit a signal via the first antenna and may receive a signal via the second antenna in the weak electric field region.

Thus the first antenna used for transmission or reception and the second antenna used for reception may be selectively used as a reception antenna by switching of the switch . Hence the second antenna may be used as a reception antenna separately from the first antenna thereby improving isolation between a transmission end and a reception end. Since interference of a reception signal is reduced due to a transmission signal reception sensitivity may be improved also in the weak electric field region. Also transmission power limitation caused by the isolation problem between the transmission end and the reception end may be addressed. In this way the reception sensitivity is improved and the transmit power is further enhanced thereby solving the call drop problem in the weak electric field region.

Moreover since a separate reception antenna is used a main antenna may be intensively implemented in a transmission band and may also be easily implemented to cover a large bandwidth communication band. For example in the FDD communication band an LTE band 4 Advanced Wireless Service AWS has a transmission band of 1 710 1 755 MHz and a reception band of 2 110 2 155 MHz in which a band gap between the transmission band and the reception band is 355 MHz. As such it is not easy to cover a large bandwidth with a single antenna.

On the other hand as described before if the first antenna and the second antenna are separately used as a transmission antenna and a reception antenna the first antenna may be implemented intensively in the transmission band and the second antenna may be implemented intensively in the reception band. For example for the LTE band 4 a reception band is 2 110 2 155 MHz such that the size of the second antenna may be implemented with a short length of 2 3 mm.

Referring to the wireless communication apparatus may include a first antenna a second antenna a switch an RF transceiver and a CP . In the wireless communication apparatus includes an LNA in a reception path and implements a junction such as the junction of with a duplexer . Also BPFs and are included in the reception path and a BPF and a power amplifier are included in the transmission path. The first antenna the second antenna the switch the RF transceiver and the CP may correspond to the first antenna the second antenna the switch the RF transceiver and the CP of respectively. Therefore an unnecessarily repeated description of those elements will be omitted.

The duplexer is connected among the first antenna the transmitter of the RF transceiver and the switch to separate a transmission signal to be transmitted via and a reception signal received via the first antenna . The power amplifier may be connected between the duplexer and the transmitter . The power amplifier power amplifies a transmission signal output from the transmitter and provides the power amplified transmission signal to the duplexer . The BPF may be further connected between the transmitter and the power amplifier . The BPF bandpass filters the transmission signal output from the transmitter and provides the bandpass filtered transmission signal to the power amplifier . An SAW filter may be used as the BPF .

A BPF connected between the second antenna and an LNA bandpass filters a signal received via the second antenna for a reception band and provides the bandpass filtered signal to the LNA . The LNA low noise amplifies a signal output from the BPF and provides the low noise amplified signal to the switch . The BPF bandpass filters a signal input through the switch for the reception band and provides the bandpass filtered signal to the receiver of the RF transceiver . The BPF is used as a pre filter prior to low noise amplification of the LNA .

The RF transceiver may include the transmitter and the receiver . The RF transceiver is connected to the CP . The transmitter of the RF transceiver converts a transmission baseband signal input from the CP into an RF signal and outputs the RF signal. The RF transmission signal output from the transmitter is transmitted through the BPF the power amplifier and the duplexer via the first antenna . The receiver of the RF transceiver converts an RF reception signal received via one of the first antenna and the second antenna which is connected by the switch into a baseband signal and outputs the baseband signal to the CP .

As provided in the description made with reference to at least some of the BPFs and may be included in the RF transceiver . Switching of the switch may be controlled by the controller of the wireless communication apparatus and or the electronic device for example by the CP as described with reference to . Thus the CP may control switching of the switch based on a received signal power level. Switching control over the switch by the controller such as the CP may be performed in the same manner as switching control over the switch by the CP as described with reference to .

Therefore the first antenna used for transmission or reception and the second antenna used for reception may be selectively used as a reception antenna by switching of the switch . If the second antenna is connected to the receiver a signal received via the second antenna is low noise amplified by the LNA and then provided to the receiver . Hence by using the LNA for a reception signal in a weak electric field region reception sensitivity may be further improved.

For common use of one antenna and a duplexer for both transmission and reception without use of a separate reception antenna using an LNA in a front end of a receiver may be considered to enhance reception sensitivity. If the LNA is used after a transmission signal interferes with a reception signal the interfered reception signal is amplified by the LNA. Thus reception sensitivity may be improved by disposing the LNA in a front end of an antenna port of the duplexer for connecting the antenna to the duplexer. However the antenna port of the duplexer is used not only as the reception path but also as the transmission path such that it is impossible to use the LNA between the antenna port of the duplexer and the antenna.

On the other hand if the second antenna is connected to the receiver in the embodiment of a signal received via the second antenna is low noise amplified by the LNA and then provided to the receiver . Hence by using the LNA irrespective of the duplexer reception sensitivity for the reception signal may be improved in the weak electric field region.

If the wireless communication apparatus is in the strong electric field region the signal received via the first antenna instead of via the second antenna is provided to the receiver through the switch such that the BPF and the LNA are not used. In this case the CP may control the BPF and the LNA not to operate. Thus power consumption of the BPF and the LNA may be reduced.

Referring to the wireless communication apparatus may include a first antenna a second antenna a switch an RF transceiver including a transmitter and a receiver and a CP . In the wireless communication apparatus includes an RF switch connector . The first antenna the second antenna the junction the switch the RF transceiver and the CP may correspond to the first antenna the second antenna the junction the switch the RF transceiver and the CP of respectively. Thus an unnecessarily repeated description of those components will not be provided.

The RF switch connector may be used to test the wireless communication apparatus. The test may include a test of transmission and reception of the wireless communication apparatus by using test equipment. The test may also include calibration performed during production of the wireless communication apparatus.

The RF switch connector selectively connects the junction between the transmitter and the switch to one of the first antenna and a cable . Like a typical RF switch connector the RF switch connector may be switched depending on whether a plug of the cable is inserted into the RF switch connector . The cable may be a test cable used to connect the test equipment to the wireless communication apparatus through the RF switch connector . If the plug of the cable has not been inserted into the RF switch connector the RF switch connector connects the junction to the first antenna . Once the plug of the cable is inserted into the RF switch connector the RF switch connector connects the junction to the cable . In the plug of the cable is inserted into the RF switch connector such that the junction is connected to the cable .

When the plug of the cable is inserted into the RF switch connector and the test equipment is connected to the junction through the cable the CP controls switching of the switch to correspond to a test. For example the test may be carried out according to a command sent from a Personal Computer PC connected to an electronic device including the wireless communication apparatus illustrated in . If the wireless communication apparatus is included in the electronic device illustrated in the PC may be connected to the electronic device through a USB and or a serial port for example RS 232 that may be included in the communication interface of the electronic device . The PC may perform a test and calibration while controlling the test equipment and the electronic device .

In the test the CP may connect the receiver to the RF switch connector through the switch . Then a path in which the cable is connected to the receiver through the RF switch connector and the switch is formed such that a reception test may be performed by the test equipment. The RF switch connector is also connected to the transmitter through the junction such that a transmission test may also be carried out through the RF switch connector .

If there is no switch separate RF switch connectors need to be used for an output path of the transmitter and an input path of the receiver to test the transmitter and the receiver . However the receiver may be connected to the RF switch connector through the switch such that both the transmitter and the receiver may be tested using one RF switch connector . Thus the number of RF switch connectors for a test may be reduced and a space necessary for installation of the RF switch connectors may also be reduced.

Referring to the wireless communication apparatus may include a first antenna a second antenna switches and an RF transceiver including a first transmitter and a second transmitter and a first receiver and a second receiver and a CP . In the wireless communication apparatus selects the first antenna used for transmission or reception and the second antenna used for reception for multiple different communication bands for example two neighboring communication bands based on switching and uses the selected antenna as a reception antenna. The first antenna the second antenna the junctions and the switch the RF transceiver and the CP may correspond to the first antenna the second antenna the junction the switch the RF transceiver and the CP of respectively. Thus an unnecessarily repeated description of those components will not be provided.

The wireless communication apparatus illustrated in is used for two communication bands such that the wireless communication apparatus may include a switch for selectively connecting the first antenna to the first transmitter and the second transmitter to correspond to a communication band used out of the two communication bands. The switch is an RF switch for which a SPDT switch may be used. The RF transceiver may include two transmitters and two receivers for processing signals of the two communication bands respectively that is the first transmitter and the second transmitter and the first receiver and the second receiver . The switch may selectively connect one of the first antenna through the junctions and and the second antenna to the first receiver and the second receiver . The switch is an RF switch for which a Double Pole Four Throw DP4T switch may be used.

Switching of the switch may be controlled by the controller of the wireless communication apparatus or the electronic device as described above with reference to and for example by the CP . Thus the CP may control switching of the switch based on a received signal power level. Switching control over the switch by the CP may be performed in the same manner as switching control over the switch by the CP .

Therefore the first antenna used for transmission or reception and the second antenna used for reception may be selectively used as a reception antenna for different communication bands by switching of the switch .

Switching of the switch may also be controlled by the CP . The CP controls the switch corresponding to a communication band used out of two communication bands to connect the first antenna to one of the first transmitter and the second transmitter .

Each of elements of the foregoing electronic device and or wireless communication apparatus according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one component and a name of each element may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the elements and some elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be further included. Some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be coupled to form one entity that performs the same functions as those of the elements that are coupled.

For example those of ordinary skill in the art may easily understand that based on the embodiment of for a more number of multiple communication bands substantially in the same manner an antenna used for transmission or reception and an antenna used for reception may be selectively used as a reception antenna by switching. Also those of ordinary skill in the art may easily understand that the wireless communication apparatus illustrated in may further include an LNA as illustrated in or may further include an RF switch connector as illustrated in to implement a test.

Moreover those of ordinary skill in the art may also easily understand that also in the embodiment illustrated in the RF switch connector may be further included as illustrated in to implement a test. In the embodiment illustrated in positions or number of BPFs and may change according to designing.

The term module used in various embodiments of the present disclosure refers to for example a unit including a combination of hardware software or firmware. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as a unit logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally configured component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit that performs at least one function or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chips Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or programmable device devices which are known or are to be developed to perform certain operations.

According to various embodiments at least a part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or method for example operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented as an instruction stored in a computer readable storage medium that may be read by a computer in the form of a programming module. When an instruction is executed by at least one processor for example the processor the at least one processor may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming modules may be implemented for example executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming modules may include for example modules programs routines sets of instructions or processes to perform at least one function.

Examples of the computer readable storage medium may include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tapes optical media such as Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are particularly configured to store and execute a program command for example a programming module such as Read Only Memories ROMs Random Access Memories RAMs and flash memories.

Examples of the program command may include a high level language code that is executed by a computer by using an interpreter or the like as well as a machine language that is produced by a compiler. The hardware device may be configured to serve as at least one software module in order to perform operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure or vice versa.

The module or programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the foregoing elements or some of them may be omitted or the module or programming module may further include additional other elements. Operations executed by the module the programming module or other elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed in a sequential parallel repeated or heuristic manner. Some operations may be executed in another order or omitted or other operations may be added.

Other effects that may be obtained or expected from the embodiment of the present disclosure are explicitly or implicitly disclosed in the detailed description of the embodiment of the present disclosure. That is various effects expected from the embodiment of the present disclosure have been disclosed in the detailed description of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

