---

title: Systems, methods and machine-readable media for facilitating provisioning of platforms
abstract: Systems and method to facilitate provisioning of a plurality of platforms are provided. First information enabling unique identification of a first provider may be processed. The first provider may be matched to a first category. A first set of platform features may be identified. A first set of service modules may be determined. A first definition of a first platform that is configured to interact with the first set of service modules to provide the first set of platform features may be generated. A first plan to provide access to the first platform with the first set of service modules may be generated. A first platform application may be configured to provide the first platform based at least in part on the plan. The configuring may include integrating the first set of service modules into the first platform application using one or more component interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09412116&OS=09412116&RS=09412116
owner: YP, LLC
number: 09412116
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140506
---
The present application claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional patent applications U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 820 552 filed May 7 2013 entitled ADVISING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 820 554 filed May 7 2013 entitled GAMING ASSISTANCE SYSTEMS AND METHODS U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 820 559 filed May 7 2013 entitled ACCREDITED ADVISOR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 820 565 filed May 7 2013 entitled PLATFORM SHAPE SHIFTER the entire disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes. In addition the present application is related to the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 271 336 entitled ADVISING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM WITH SENSOR INPUT and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 271 339 entitled ACCREDITED ADVISOR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates in general to service provider systems and more specifically but not by way of limitation to platform shape shifter systems.

In the current market service providers are seeking more cost effective ways to establish and increase presence in the marketplace. For many small businesses the cost and hassle of entry into the digital marketplace has been prohibitive daunting or at least burdensome. As a result many potential entrants into the digital marketplace have put off entry or have opted for less optimal means that do not serve their needs adequately. However as value use access and demand corresponding to digital marketing continue to increase service providers demand more of the products and services they use than ever before. Companies are expected to compete to provide greater and greater levels of accuracy and more tailored service offerings for service providers. There is a need for more tailored service offerings for service providers.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure relates in general to service provider systems and more specifically but not by way of limitation to platform shape shifter systems.

In one aspect a system to facilitate provisioning of a plurality of platforms is provided. The system may include any one or combination of the following. One or more network interfaces may be configured to provide access to a network. One or more processors may be coupled to the one or more network interfaces to enable provisioning of a plurality of platforms. The one or more processors may execute instructions to perform any one or combination of the following. First information enabling unique identification of a first provider may be processed. The first provider may correspond to a provider of one or more services and or products. The first provider may be matched to a first category from a set of categories. The first provider may match one or more categories of the set of categories. The first category may represent a first classification of a first set of providers sharing a first set of common attributes. A first set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on the first category. The first set of platform features may correspond to features that a platform application is adaptable to provide. A first set of service modules corresponding at least partially to the first set of platform features may be determined. A first definition of a first platform that is configured to interact with the first set of service modules to provide the first set of platform features may be generated. A first plan to provide access to the first platform with the first set of service modules may be generated based at least in part on the definition of the first platform. The definition and the plan may be retained in one or more repositories accessible by the one or more processors. A first platform application may be configured to provide the first platform based at least in part on the plan. The configuring may include integrating the first set of service modules into the first platform application using one or more component interfaces. User access via the network to the first platform may be enabled. The user access may be provided for the first provider. One or more storage media may be coupled to the one or more processors to retain the instructions.

In another aspect a method to facilitate provisioning of a plurality of platforms the method is provided. The method may include any one or combination of the following and any one or combination of the following may be performed by a computer system. First information enabling unique identification of a first provider may be processed. The first provider may correspond to a provider of one or more services and or products. The first provider may be matched to a first category from a set of categories. The first provider may match one or more categories of the set of categories. The first category may represent a first classification of a first set of providers sharing a first set of common attributes. A first set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on the first category. The first set of platform features may correspond to features that a platform application is adaptable to provide. A first set of service modules corresponding at least partially to the first set of platform features may be determined. A first definition of a first platform that is configured to interact with the first set of service modules to provide the first set of platform features may be generated. A first plan to provide access to the first platform with the first set of service modules may be generated based at least in part on the definition of the first platform. The definition and the plan may be retained in one or more repositories accessible by the one or more processors. A first platform application may be configured to provide the first platform based at least in part on the plan. The configuring may include integrating the first set of service modules into the first platform application using one or more component interfaces. User access via the network to the first platform may be enabled. The user access may be provided for the first provider.

In yet another aspect one or more non transitory machine readable media having machine readable instructions thereon for facilitating provisioning of a plurality of platforms are provided. The instructions when executed by one or more computers or other processing devices may cause the one or more computers or other processing devices to perform any one or combination of the following. First information enabling unique identification of a first provider may be processed. The first provider may correspond to a provider of one or more services and or products. The first provider may be matched to a first category from a set of categories. The first provider may match one or more categories of the set of categories. The first category may represent a first classification of a first set of providers sharing a first set of common attributes. A first set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on the first category. The first set of platform features may correspond to features that a platform application is adaptable to provide. A first set of service modules corresponding at least partially to the first set of platform features may be determined. A first definition of a first platform that is configured to interact with the first set of service modules to provide the first set of platform features may be generated. A first plan to provide access to the first platform with the first set of service modules may be generated based at least in part on the definition of the first platform. The definition and the plan may be retained in one or more repositories accessible by the one or more processors. A first platform application may be configured to provide the first platform based at least in part on the plan. The configuring may include integrating the first set of service modules into the first platform application using one or more component interfaces. User access via the network to the first platform may be enabled. The user access may be provided for the first provider.

In various embodiments information about at least part of the first set of service features with corresponding user selectable options may be exposed via the network. One or more indications of user selection of one or more service features of the first set of service features may be processed. The one or more indications of user selection may be received via the network. The determining the set of service modules may be based at least in part on the one or more indications of user selection of one or more service features of the set of service features.

In various embodiments second information enabling unique identification of a second provider may be processed. The second provider may be matched to a second category from the set of categories. A second set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on the second category. A second set of service modules corresponding at least partially to the second set of service features may be determined. A second definition of a second platform that is configured to interact with the second set of service modules may be generated. A plan to provide access to the first platform with the set of service modules may be generated based at least in part on the definition of the first platform. A second platform application may be configured to provide the second platform based at least in part on the second plan. User access via the network to the second platform for the second provider may be enabled.

In various embodiments processing resources and or database resources may be allocated to the first platform application based at least in part on the plan.

In various embodiments a first set of content related to the first provider may be processed. The first set of content may relate to aspects of a business. A first subset of content may be prepared from the first set of content for presentation via the first platform application.

In various embodiments communication between the first provider and a consumer may be facilitated through the network based at least in part on the first platform.

In various embodiments a first set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on a platform template associated with the first category. A second set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on the first category. The second set of platform features may correspond to one or more potential customizations to the platform application. Information about at least part of the second set of service features may be exposed via the network with corresponding user selectable options. The determining the first set of service modules may be based at least in part on one or more indications of user selection of one or more service features of the second set of service features.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. It should be understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments maybe practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term computer readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Certain embodiments according to the present disclosure may provide for a system that is configured to provide modular system building blocks that can be used to generate a platform or otherwise provide a platform that handles different verticals. A platform shape shifter could be adaptable to various verticals. Certain embodiments may minimize the cost of entry into a vertical. Certain embodiments may employ state based programming that could be used to implement platform shape shifting techniques.

Certain embodiments may provide for automated provisioning of service features. Certain embodiments may provide for automated provisioning of resources. In various embodiments resources may include database resources and or application services. In some embodiments the provisioning may be cloud based. For example cloud based services such as any suitable type of SaaS Software as a Service PaaS Platform as a Service and or the like may be used to provision service features and or resources in a cloud environment. In various embodiments an automated workflow s may be provided for choreographing or orchestrating the provisioning.

Various embodiments will now be discussed in greater detail with reference to the accompanying figures beginning with .

The network s may be any suitable means to facilitate data transfer in the system . In various embodiments the network may be implemented with without limitation one or more of the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a metropolitan area network MAN a cellular network such as through 4G 3G GSM etc. another wireless network a gateway a conventional telephone network or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates the communication of signals data and or message. The network may transmit data using any suitable communication protocol. The network and its various components may be implemented using hardware software and communications media such as wires optical fibers microwaves radio waves and other electromagnetic and or optical carriers and or any combination of the foregoing. The consumer interface s consumer s service provider interface s service provider s a platform information handling system and or resource s may be communicatively coupled or couplable to the network via any suitable communication paths that support the communication protocol s used in the various embodiments.

The platform information handling system may facilitate searching of one or more information repositories in response to information received over the network from the consumer interfaces and or service provider interfaces . In various embodiments the platform information handling system may include any device or set of devices configured to process send receive retrieve detect generate compute organize categorize qualify store display present handle or use any form of information and or data suitable for the embodiments described herein.

The platform information handling system may include a single computing device or multiple computing devices which in some embodiments may be implemented in or with a distributed computing and or cloud computing environment. The platform information handling system may include one or more processing resources communicatively coupled to one or more storage media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or other types of memory. The platform information handling system may include any one or combination of various input and output I O devices network ports and display devices.

In certain embodiments the platform information handling system may be communicatively coupled or couplable to one or more resources . In certain embodiments the platform information handling system may include one or more resources . In various embodiments the one or more resources may include one or more of database resources other storage resources application services and or processing resources. Certain embodiments may provide for automated provisioning of resources . In some embodiments the provisioning may be cloud based. For example cloud based services such as any suitable type of SaaS Software as a Service PaaS Platform as a Service and or the like may be used to provision resources in a cloud environment. Resources may be linked to the platform information handling system via the network or directly.

A resource may include any suitable input output module or other system device operable to serve as an interface between the resource and the network and or platform information handling system . The interface may facilitate communication over the network using any suitable transmission protocol standard and or encryption.

In certain embodiments the platform information handling system may be communicatively coupled or couplable to one or more location data sources . With some embodiments the one or more location data sources may include one or more mobile computing device locator services that provide information regarding the location of one or more consumer interfaces . With some embodiments the location data sources may provide various details relating to call data. With some embodiments the location data sources may provide caller name information from calling name delivery CNAM also known as caller identification or caller ID which information may be used to determine particular details about the caller. With some embodiments the location data sources may provide information about the area in which the caller is located. With some embodiments the resources may provide demographic data about an area.

In certain embodiments the platform information handling system may be communicatively coupled or couplable to one or more other data sources . The one or more data sources may include any suitable source of data. In various embodiments the one or more data sources may include one or more of a database a website any repository of data in any suitable form and or a third party. In various embodiments the one or more data sources may facilitate at least in part a background check process of a service provider. In one exemplary embodiment the background check process can be performed as a part of a service provider onboarding process which process is described further herein. A background check process may include one or more of a criminal record check identity validation e.g. via social security numbers sex offender background checks insurance validation and or the like. A background check process could be performed at least in part by a third party such as a data source .

In various embodiments the data from one or more of the data sources may be retrieved and or received by the platform information handling system via the network and or through any other suitable means of transferring data. For example in some embodiments the platform information handling system and the data sources could use any suitable means for direct communication. According to certain embodiments data may be actively gathered and or pulled from one or more data sources for example by accessing a third party repository and or by crawling various repositories. With some embodiments certain of the data pulled and or pushed from one or more of the data sources may be made available by the platform information handling system for user s of the consumer interfaces and or service provider interfaces .

The consumer interfaces and or service provider interfaces may allow for transfer of and or access to information in accordance with certain embodiments disclosed herein. In various embodiments the consumer interface s and or service provider interface s may include any suitable input output module or other system device operable to serve as an interface between service providers consumers and or a platform provided by the system. The consumer interfaces and or service provider interfaces may facilitate communication over the network using any suitable transmission protocol and or standard. In various embodiments the platform information handling system may include provide and or be configured for operation with the consumer interfaces and or service provider interfaces for example by making available and or communicating with one or more of a website a web page a web portal a web application a mobile application enterprise software and or any suitable application software. In some embodiments a consumer interface and or service provider interface may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs .

In some embodiments a consumer interface and or a service provider interface may include a web interface. In some embodiments the consumer interface and or service provider interface may include or work with an application made available to one or more interfaces such as a mobile application. In some embodiments the consumer interface and or service provider interface may cause a web page to be displayed on a browser of a service provider . The web page s may display output and receive input from a user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create the web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic HTML and or AJAX technologies. Accordingly the platform information handling system may have web site portals giving access to such information such as a service provider portal.

In various embodiments a consumer interface and or a service provider interface may include providing one or more display screens that may each include one or more user interface elements. A user interface may include any text image and or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. A user interface may include one or more widgets text text boxes text fields tables grids charts hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like.

In certain embodiments a consumer interface and or a service provider interface may include a computing device of a consumer and or a service provider . In certain embodiments a consumer interface and or a service provider interface may include a mobile computing device that may be any portable device suitable for sending and receiving information over a network in accordance with embodiments described herein. In one non limiting exemplary embodiment the computing device may include one or more devices variously referenced as a desktop computer mobile phone a cellular telephone a smartphone a handheld mobile device a tablet computer a web pad a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer a handheld computer a laptop computer and or the like. Some embodiments include a landline phone that may not be a computing device.

In some embodiments the platform information handling system may provide for the selection and provision of advertisements to one or more of consumer interfaces and or consumers . In certain embodiments one or more service providers may have advertisements that may be placed in a web page made available to one or more consumer interfaces . In certain embodiments one or more service providers may have advertisements that may be displayed with an application made available to one or more consumer interfaces such as a mobile application. The placement of the advertisements may be in accordance with one or more paid placement arrangements and one or more advertising models.

In some embodiments service providers and consumers may communicate via Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP technology with their respective interfaces. A consumer and a service provider may be communicatively coupled through switches of the network which may include switches of a public telephone network in some embodiments. In some embodiments one or more service providers could be contacted by a consumer and or the platform information handling system via various media channels such as email chat instant message etc. and a service provider could respond via various media channels including for example the above listed various media channels. Communication between service providers and consumers may be established via telephonic connection chat connection game voice chat private chat video chat videoconferencing videophone calls web conferencing and or the like.

In some embodiments a service provider and or a consumer may use a computing device executing an application module app via which the computing device may communicate with the platform. A service provider and or a consumer could download an app to his or her computing device that can facilitate communication sessions. With certain embodiments a mobile application may be made available for execution on a mobile computing device to provide various features described herein. Various embodiments may include a specific purpose based mobile application or a mobile application integrated with various other mobile application features.

The platform information handling system may include one or more servers. The one or more servers may include one or more network interfaces communicatively coupled to processors . The network interface s may include any suitable input output module or other system device operable to serve as an interface between one or more components of the service information handling system and the network . The platform information handling system may use the network interfaces to communicate over the network using any suitable transmission protocol and or standard. In some embodiments the one or more servers may include one or more web servers one or more email gateways one or more instant messaging gateways one or more telephone gateways one or more other gateways such as television gateways and or one or more other types of servers such as an application gateway to interface with different servers. Some embodiments may use one type of communication server such as a web server to receive search requests and another type of communication server to provide the search results. Some embodiments may use different types of communication servers to service different types of interfaces .

Certain embodiments may provide a multi channel communication regime to coordinate multiple communication channels used by consumers and service providers. Multiple communication pipes within a communication pipe could be implemented according to certain embodiments. Some embodiments may implement a greater number of communication channels. For example one set of channels could be used for a consumer to request help and one set of channels could be used for a service provider to respond to the consumer. The system can use web communication text communication voice communication e mail communication push notification and or the like.

In some embodiments a server may communicate with a computing device via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and or other types of communication protocols such as File Transfer Protocol FTP Wireless Application Protocol WAP etc. A web server may provide static web pages dynamic web pages and or web services. In some embodiments a web server may provide web applications to a computing device for execution in a web browser running on the computing device and the web applications may include scripts for execution within an isolated environment in a browser. In some embodiments the web server may provide rich client applications to a computing device and the rich client application may be programmed to have access to functions of the operating system running on a computing device .

The platform information handling system may include one or more data repositories . In various embodiments the data repository ies may be implemented in various ways. For example one or more data processing systems may store information. One or more relational or object oriented databases or flat files on one or more computers or networked storage devices may store information. In some embodiments a centralized system stores information alternatively a distributed cloud system network based system such as being implemented with a peer to peer network or Internet may store information.

In some embodiments the one or more data repositories may include one or more authentication information repositories . The one or more authentication information repositories may retain any authentication information suitable to facilitate security for embodiments of this disclosure. The authentication information repositories may include database s database management system s server s to facilitate management provision transfer of authentication information and or the like. The repositories may retain authentication information of one or more particular consumers service providers and or other data sources . The authentication information may include information to check credentials of particular consumers service providers and or other data sources that may use one of their corresponding interfaces to seek access transfer information and or make service related transactions with platform information handling system . The authentication information may be used to provide security for transactions restrict the access granted to a certain set of information and or features implement certain control and or features for certain parties and or the like.

In some embodiments the one or more data repositories may include one or more consumer information repositories . In some embodiments a computing device may store consumer information. In some embodiments both the computing device and the online data repository ies store the consumer information for a particular consumer . In some embodiments when there is a data communication connection between the computing device and the online data repository ies the computing device and the online data repository ies may synchronize their copies of the consumer information for the consumer . The consumer information may be associated with the corresponding consumers . In some embodiments a consumer may create corresponding consumer information.

In some embodiments the one or more data repositories may include one or more service provider information repositories . The one or more service provider information repositories may retain service provider information of particular service providers. The repositories may retain any information related to service providers. For example one or more service provider information repositories may retain any information related to service provider identification information service provider profiles service provider certification information service provider licensing information service provider permit information service provider pricing information service provider authentication information service provider statuses service provider relationships organization details payment methods accounting information credit information asset information collateral information address information contact information user account information advertisements announcements and or the like. The service provider information may be associated with location information which may have street addresses or other location parameters such as longitude and latitude coordinates stored as locations in one or more location information repositories . The location information may be part of the service provider information or associated therewith.

In some embodiments the one or more data repositories may include one or more regulation information repositories . The regulation information repositories may retain any suitable information related to certification licensing and or permit information. The information may include rules for professions businesses positions practices and or services associated with certification licensing and or permit requirements and resources and associated with various jurisdictions.

One or more engines may be used to process a search request and present search results based on the information stored in one or more data repositories . The one or more data repositories may include listings information about business entities or public end user information or other types of searchable end user information. The one or more listings information repositories may retain any local listings information suitable for embodiments of this disclosure such as business product and service information. In certain embodiments the local listings information may correspond to directory information of the kind available via Yellow Pages services and the like.

In various embodiments one or more of the engines and or other modules such as a voice recognition system may be stored in the one or more memories and may include one or more software applications executable with the processors for receiving and processing data requests. In some embodiments one or more of the engines and or other modules may be servers communicating with the communication server s . The server communication may be over a network such as a local area network a wide area network an intranet Internet and or the like. Any one or combination of the various servers may run on common or separate computers. In some embodiments there may be one or more layers of application servers between the communication server and the data repository ies to process the business logic and data access of the rich client applications. Alternatively application servers may be integrated with the communication servers such as the web servers. Certain embodiments are not limited to a particular type of connections among the communication servers one or more of the engines and or other modules.

In some embodiments one computer system implements one or more of the components of the system . Alternatively different processes running on one or more shared computers may implement some of the components. For example one computing module thread or process may implement multiple of the components. In some embodiments special purpose data processing systems implement the one or more of the components. In some embodiments processes running according to software instructions on general purpose data processing systems such as general purpose personal computers or server computers can implement the components. Thus the implementations are not limited to particular hardware software or particular combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the location engine s may include one or more engines and may use GPS coordinates cellular tower triangulation techniques Wi Fi based location information carrier provided location information and or other location determination systems to identify a location of the computing device . In some embodiments the location engine determines a location of interest to the consumer related to a search request. The location of interest may be based on a location of the computing device . In some embodiments the consumer may explicitly specify the location of interest in a search request and the location engine extracts the location of interest from the search request. In some embodiments a location of interest may be based on end user information stored for a particular consumer and associated with identification information of the consumer or the computing device . In some embodiments the consumer may specify some or all of the end user information.

In some embodiments the location engine may automatically identify the location of interest based on the current location of the computing device used to submit a search request and or initiate a phone call. For example the location engine may determine the location of the computing device based on a connection point used by the computing device to access the network e.g. based on the location of a wireless network access point a base station of a cellular communication system or a connection point to a wired network . In some embodiments the computing device automatically determines its current position e.g. via a satellite positioning system or a cellular positioning system and transmits the determined or estimated position to the system with the search request or provides the position in response to a request from the location engine .

In some embodiments the search engine may retrieve information from the data repository ies according to a search request. The search engine may include logic for implementing searching of one or more information repositories. Other engines may include and or utilize the search engine in various embodiments. The searching may be in response to information received over the network from a user. Responsive to a query the search engine may search retrieve modify and or cause transfer of particular information from one or more information repositories.

A sort engine may rank the information in accordance with embodiments discussed herein. In various embodiments the area selector may be configured to select areas of interest in accordance with various embodiments described herein. In some embodiments the area selector may select a first geographic area based on the location of interest identified by the location engine . The search engine may then retrieve a first set of service provider information that have corresponding locations within the selected first geographic area and that satisfy the search criteria. In some embodiments the search engine may search for service provider information in a target area to obtain a set of search results the area selector may select geographic areas and may select groups of results that are within the selected geographic areas respectively.

In some embodiments the interface handling engine s may include logic to send present and receive information with one or more of the interfaces to from one or more consumers service providers and or data sources. The interface handling engine s with one or more the processors may utilize one or more network interfaces to transceive information through the network . The system may pull and or push information from those entities in any suitable way.

In some embodiments the account management engine s may include logic for implementing account features in various embodiments. By way of example without limitation the account management engine s may include logic for one or more aspects of handling user registration managing account creation updates authentication handling handling buyer deposit accounts handling buyer credit accounts and or the like. The account management engine s may be configured for acquiring processing formatting and or storing authentication information in the one or more authentication repositories .

In some embodiments the service management workflow engine s may include logic for implementing service management workflow features in various embodiments. By way of non limiting example the service management workflow engine s may include logic for one or more aspects of creating changing and storing consumer and service provider profiles presenting and handling service provider options handling consumer requests and or the like. In some embodiments notification engine s may include logic for implementing notification features. By way of example without limitation the notification engine s may include logic for one or more aspects of generating and sending notifications to platform users receiving responses from platform users coordinating responses and extracting pertinent information therefrom alerting consumer and service providers regarding events of interest and or the like. The notification engine s may be configured to check consumer and or service provider notification profiles for handling notifications in accordance therewith. In some embodiments the service management workflow engine s may include the notification engine s .

In some embodiments the logging engine s may include logic for implementing information logging features in various embodiments. By way of example without limitation the logging engine s could process data pulled and or pushed from various entities. The logging engine s could handle process extracting formatting and or storing data may in one or more of the aforementioned repositories.

In some embodiments the call handling module s may be configured to one or more of decode route and redirect calls from consumers to service providers. Aspects of the call handling module s are further discussed herein.

A platform shape shifter system may allow for the provisioning of multiple subsystems and or service modules with architecture connections to interact in providing a customized platform with which a service provider can service consumers in a particular business vertical. Multiple subsystems and or service modules may be selected by a service provider via a service provider portal and grafted into a platform to enable desired functions. A platform deployment orchestration engine may be a component that handles the overall process of the automated configuring of a platform . The platform deployment orchestration engine may serve as a task manager and may implement workflows and translation of information such that the platform integrates functions cohesively. In some embodiments the platform deployment orchestration engine may interface with other components based on SOAP BPEL and or any other suitable protocol and language. Though certain aspects corresponding to system including platform information handling system are not depicted in system for the sake of simplicity it is to be understood that system and platform may utilize any combination of components thereof to provide features according various embodiments of the present disclosure.

A service provider onboarding engine may manage an onboarding process for a service provider. The service provider portal may facilitate service provider onboarding. The information gathered and set up via onboarding may be retained in appropriate repositories in certain embodiments. In various embodiments the onboarding process may include providing one or more display screens that may each include one or more user interface elements. One or more automated process flows may facilitate the provisioning of service providers with one or more accounts and or registrations. Service provider accounts may be created in various ways in various embodiments. For example account creation may be initiated by the system which can initiate onboarding by automatically identifying the service provider and sending a service provider a notification with a link inviting the service provider to register. In certain cases an existing service provider may already be in the system and either the service provider or the system may request registration. Along with the registration a service provider account may be created so that the service provider can be presented with a profile setup flow.

A profile setup flow may include a page flow presented to the service provider to acquire information from the service provider and ensure that the service provider fills out a profile. A service provider profile may include any suitable information such as information regarding a service provider s business hours specialties types of payments that are receivable contact information billing information certification information information on locations and or the like. A service provider profile may include persistent information that is maintained about a service provider and or service provider site. A service provider profile may include any data stored in a service provider information repository and can include for example data that is part of the profile as shown to a service provider via a service provider portal and or data that is not part of the profile as shown to a service provider via a service provider portal.

With the profile setup flow a service provider may be able to indicate specific services for which the service provider provides service. The service provider could also indicate implicitly or explicitly specific services which the service provider does not provide. With the provider profile a service provider may be able to indicate specific service areas for which the service provider provides service. In various embodiments a service area could have any suitable parameters e.g. including one or more counties municipalities zip codes distances from reference points etc. In some embodiments a user selectable map interface may be presented to a service provider enabling the service provider to define a service area by selecting one or more points on the map interface. For example predefined service areas such as zip codes and or the like could be presented on the map for selection. The map interface could allow a service provider to define a perimeter of a service e.g. by drawing on the map with a line drawing tool cursor finger stylus contact with a touch interface selection of perimeter boundaries such as roads rivers etc.

In some embodiments the provider profile may include a notification profile. The notification profile may specify parameters for notifying the service provider. In some embodiments the platform may send a notification to a service provider which notification for example could be provided via a service provider dashboard that can be provided via the platform. However any suitable means of notification may be employed including for example text voice e mail alerts with the application and or the like. The notification could include a link or other communication referring back to the platform prompting the provider to respond. For example the notification could provide a link for users to log into the platform to respond. In some embodiments the service provider may respond via the same medium in which the notification was sent e.g. text voice e mail etc. and the system may process the response extracting requested information.

Certain embodiments may provide a level of control to service providers to select particular service features. Certain embodiments may expose a list of service features to allow the service to make service feature selections. Any suitable means of presenting user selectable options and or information entry indication options may utilized in various embodiments. The page flow may present text entry fields and or graphical selection options. Multiple user selectable options and or information entry indication options may be presented to the service provider. The page flow may utilize a decision tree in some cases. The decision tree may be followed to classify service features classifications options may flow from more general classifications to more specific subclassifications to any suitable degree of specificity. In some embodiments an auditing function of the platform deployment orchestration engine for example may validate combinations of selected features to ensure logical compatibility of the features.

A feature acquisition engine may manage acquisition of service provider selections for a desired platform . The feature acquisition engine may manage a feature selection flow presented to the service provider to gather provider selections of desired resource options. The feature selection flow may include a navigation menu flow presented with a GUI for the service provider to select different service features and functions. The feature acquisition engine may apply business rules to check and shepherd the acquisition processes.

Based on the gathered acquisition information the platform deployment orchestration engine may identify service modules to provide functionalities corresponding to service provider selections of desired service features and obtain the corresponding service module instances. A service module provisioning engine may handle the provisioning of service module instances . The service module instances may be functional units that can be individually selected to be part of the customized platform that provides desired functionalities. The service module instances may perform any suitable function to facilitate desired service features. Accordingly the platform may provide desired functionalities tailored to service needs of a particular service provider in a particular business vertical.

A resources provisioning engine may assign resources based at least in part on the service provider selections to facilitate the desired service features. The resources may correspond to certain of the data and or processing resources of and or available to platform information handling system in certain embodiments. For example the platform deployment orchestration engine may indicate service selections corresponding service modules and or the like to the service module provision engine and may obtain corresponding service module instances from the service module provision engine . The platform deployment orchestration engine may indicate service module instances to the resources provisioning engine and may assign or obtain assigned resources from the resources provisioning engine .

The platform deployment orchestration engine may arrange and configure the service module instances and assigned resources with architecture connections to interact and cooperate to provide the functionalities of the customized platform . Having grafted the service module instances with the platform the platform deployment orchestrator may configure the user interfaces associated with the platform the service provider interface s and the consumer interface s to provide the functionalities specified. The platform application s may run in an application layer of an operating system s running on a special purpose computer s to provide the desired functionalities. In some embodiments the platform may be instantiated with a virtual machine. A graphical user interface preview of the service provider interface and or the consumer interface may be presented to a service provider for inspection rearrangement and customization and approval.

One or more configuration information repositories may store configuration information for the platform . The information repositories may correspond to certain of the repositories in certain embodiments. The various functions may use configuration parameters and information on how to interact with those functions that may be stored in the configuration information repository . Information for grafting functions may include API translation information in some embodiments. The configuration repositories may be modifiable by system administrators developers via an administrator and or developer portal to modify operations of the functions .

The portal s may be used to program or reconfigure aspects of the system . There could be different levels of access provided via the portal . Administrators developers may modify functions through a module definition function . The designer may select service may configure module definitions for corresponding service modules according to any desired requirements. In some embodiments the portal may provide for a manual review option of configurations set up via the automated provisioning processes by an administrator if desired.

Instances of the service modules can be added or removed from a platform configuration via the platform shape shifter system. The service modules can be customized for given implementations. For example an administrator or developer may change module definitions to implement any desired functionalities generally or for specific implementations for a particular vertical and or service provider.

Any suitable type of communication modules may be provided for selection. Various communication modules may allow for various communication features via telephonic connection chat connection game voice chat private chat video chat videoconferencing videophone calls web conferencing and or the like. The communication modules may allow for configuring the platform to allow features based on any suitable communication reference. For example in various embodiments the platform may facilitate interfacing between a service provider and customers via any suitable one or combination of any suitable communication references which may include a text number a click to text option a phone number with or without an extension a click to call option an email address a click to email option a click to reveal reference a SIP address for a VoIP call and or the like. A communication reference may be implemented with any suitable type of advertisement product that may be offered. The advertisement products may include for example pay per call ads presence ads cost per click cost per impression ads display ads and or the like in any suitable type of medium including print web mobile video television social and or the like.

Any suitable type of graphical aid modules may be provided for selection. Various graphical aid modules may allow for various features that allow a service provider and or consumer to view upload download markup images or otherwise handle still images. In some embodiments the graphical aid modules can facilitate communication between the service provider and the consumer. The graphical aid modules could allow for a whiteboard feature allowing a service provider and or consumer to write or draw on the whiteboard. Modules could allow for DVR features which can allow video content to be buffered and or otherwise recorded to facilitate analysis and advising. In some embodiments graphical aid modules could allow for a service provider to view and control at least a portion of the screen display that a consumer is viewing.

Any suitable type of tracking modules may be provided for selection. One or more tracking modules may allow for tracking of information regarding consumers. As discussed herein tracked information could include information relating to equipment that a consumer uses and has used to interface with one or more service providers. In various embodiments a service provider platform may track calls messages billing etc. and enable service providers to interact with the platform to retrieve see and use the data. As discussed herein certain embodiments may provide for a consumer history engine that manages collects retrieves updates and or retains information relevant to a particular consumer. Certain embodiments may automatically identify a caller correlate the caller to a consumer profile and provide consumer profile information to the service provider to enrich the assistance session by making consumer profile information available to the service provider. Consumer profile information may provide the service provider with valuable context. For each consumer a dossier for a consumer can be compiled and made available to a service provider to facilitate assistance the consumer.

Any suitable type of analysis and or sensing modules may be provided for selection. One or more sensor modules may allow for any one or combination of the sensor based features discussed herein. One or more analysis features may allow for any one or combination of voice analysis ambient analysis and or the like features discussed herein.

One or more pricing modules may be provided for selection. Pricing modules could implement various pricing features for communications between service provider and consumer such as a flat fee rates per time period certain free periods free to charge transitions price escalations de escalations for transitions between various types of service options during a communication session and or the like.

One or more IVR modules may be provided for selection. The IVR modules may allow for customization of call handling according to the service provider s preferences. One or more performance analytics modules may be provided for selection. The performance analytics modules may allow for processing performance data associated with the service providers and or other service providers in the same vertical. For example call statistics features could allow for tracking and analysis of details about calls per particular consumer calls per particular location calls using a particular number missed calls dropped calls calls receiving a busy tone call back statistics call lengths and or the like. Any number and type of other modules are possible including modules to facilitate other service features discussed further herein.

One aspect of the flow may correspond to a set of interactions with a prospective provider in a provider onboarding phase . Such onboarding may include identifying a provider as possibly interested in tailored platform. In some cases a provider may initiate platform provisioning. In some cases the system may prompt a provider to initiate platform provisioning. Information enabling unique identification of a provider may be gathered processed and retained. As part of the on boarding process profile information may be gathered with respect to a particular provider.

One aspect of the flow may correspond to a provider analysis phase . Information with respect to a particular provider may be analyzed in order to identify one or more provider attributes. The analysis may include determining one or more categories to which the provider belongs. The provider may be matched to one or more categories that each represent classifications of providers sharing common attributes.

One aspect of the flow may correspond to a platform definition phase . A set of platform features may be identified. In some embodiments the set of platform features may be identified based at least in part on one or more provider attributes and or one or more provider categories. In some embodiments information about at least part of the set of service features may be exposed to the provider with corresponding user selectable options to inform the provider regarding service features and to enable the provider to select de select service features. The backend system may process one or more indications of user selection of one or more service features. Accordingly a customized set of service modules may be based at least in part on the user selection.

A set of service modules corresponding at least partially to an identified set of platform features whether simply system identified or user customized according to the particular embodiment may be determined. The system may generate a definition of the particularized platform configured to interact with the set of service modules to provide the one or more service features. The system may generate a plan to provide the platform with the set of service modules based at least in part on the definition. The definition and the plan may be retained in one or more repositories.

One aspect of the flow may correspond to a platform construction phase . A platform application may be configured to provide the tailored platform based at least in part on the plan and the definition. The set of service modules may be integrated into the first platform application using one or more component interfaces. Processing resources and or database resources may be allocated to the platform application based at least in part on the plan.

One aspect of the flow may correspond to a platform retention phase . The configured resources application and modules may be retained for example in the cloud for provisioning to the provider and on behalf of the provider to consumers. One aspect of the flow may correspond to a platform provisioning phase . User access to the provider specific platform may be enabled via the network.

According to one embodiment the method may begin as indicated by block . As indicated by block in some embodiments a provider may be prompted with invitation to create a platform. An invitation may take any of various suitable forms and a provider may be identified in any suitable manner. For example a provider may be identified as already associated with the system but not yet having a tailored platform. Accordingly in some cases the system may prompt a provider to initiate platform provisioning. However in some cases a provider may initiate platform provisioning.

As indicated by block one or more user interfaces may be generated to provide one or more user selectable options for platform provisioning. An interface provided by the system may facilitate an onboarding phase. In various embodiments such an interface may include providing one or more display screens that may each include one or more user interface elements. An interface may include any text image and or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. An interface may include one or more widgets text text boxes text fields tables grids charts maps hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like.

As indicated by block one or more user selections for platform provisioning may be processed. The user selections may include initiations of the onboarding and or provisioning process. The user selections may include selections corresponding to provider information and or preference gathering. As indicated by block a provider profile may be created retrieved and or developed. Information enabling unique identification of a provider may be gathered processed and retained. Profile information may be gathered with respect to a particular provider as part of the onboarding process. In some embodiments the onboarding may include a provider registration and or certification stage. In some embodiments one or more automated process flows may facilitate the provisioning of prospective providers with accounts and registration. Accounts may be created in various ways in various embodiments. For example account creation may be initiated by the system. The system could initiate onboarding by automatically identifying the provider and presenting a communication reference such as a link inviting the provider to register and create an account. The onboarding may include a profile stage which may include a process of ensuring profile completion. A profile may include information regarding a provider s certifications permits licenses experience hours of availability specialties proficiencies types of payments that are receivable contact information notification preferences device configurations capabilities billing information certification information information on locations and or the like. A profile may include persistent information that is maintained about a provider. A profile may include any data stored in an information repository whether or not it is part of the profile exposed to a provider. With the profile a provider may be able to indicate specific services products which the provider is to provide. The provider could also indicate implicitly or explicitly specific services products which the provider does not provide.

In some embodiments the profile may include a notification profile. The notification profile may specify parameters for notifying the provider and could also specify parameters for provider responses to notifications from the system such as a notification regarding an incomplete profile or issues with certification insurance and or the like. In some embodiments the platform may send a notification to a provider which notification for example could be provided via a provider dashboard provided via the platform. However any suitable means of notification may be employed. For example text voice e mail alerts with the application and or the like could be sent. The notification could include a link or other communication reference referring back to the platform prompting the provider to respond. For example the notification could provide a link for users to log into the platform to respond. In some embodiments the provider may respond via the same medium in which the notification was sent e.g. text voice e mail etc. and the system may process the response extracting requested information.

In some embodiments as indicated by block one or more questions may be presented to the provider to gather provider information. An automated workflow may include a series of questions the answers to which as provided by user selections may be used for provider analysis e.g. to identify one or more attributes characteristics of the provider to categorize the provider and or to otherwise characterize the provider. In some embodiments as indicated by block the provider may specify or otherwise indicate one or more categories to which the provider belongs. Some embodiments may present information and user selectable options to facilitate categorization of the provider. Additionally or alternatively as indicated by block provider information may be gathered from one or more information repositories of the system. In some cases the provider may have been previously associated with the system such that certain provider information has already been gathered and retained. Thus previously identified provider information may be accessed to facilitate analysis of the provider. Additionally or alternatively as indicated by block provider information may be gathered from one or more other data sources. Some embodiments may provide for porting of information from a provided managed repository of information. Some embodiments may provide for options for user initiation of porting information some embodiments may perform the process automatically. In various embodiments provider information may be gathered from any suitable data source which may include any one or more or combination of a database a website any repository of data in any suitable form and or a third party. According to certain embodiments provider information may be actively gathered and or pulled from data sources for example by accessing crawling a data source repository.

As indicated by block the provider information may be correlated to one or more provider categories. In some embodiments the system may include a matching engine that can receive provider information identify attributes of the provider based at least in part on the provider information and match the provider to one or more categories from a category information repository. In some embodiments one or more taxonomies that map particular profile information to particular categories may used in correlating provider profile information with one or more categories.

As indicated by block one or more characteristics of the provider may be determined. For example the system may determine characteristics such as products or services provided customers served market location etc. based on the provider information gathered. As indicated by block it may be determined whether one or more of the characteristics match characteristics associated with one or more categories. If so as indicated by block one or more provider characteristics may be matched with one or more categories. Then as indicated by block the provider may be associated with the one or more categories. Information about the categorization of providers may be retained by the system for example in one or more information repositories.

However if it is not determined that one or more of the characteristics match characteristics associated with one or more categories it may be determined whether one or more of the characteristics match another already categorized provider as indicated by block . The one or more characteristics can be compared with other providers. If characteristics match with a second provider exceeds a threshold the provider can be determined to match with the category of the second provider as indicated by block . Then as indicated by block the provider can be associated with the category of the second provider.

However if it is not determined that the provider characteristics match other provider characteristics a representative can provide a manual selection of a category as indicated by block . In some embodiments manual selection can be made by a representative associated with the system in some embodiments manual selection can be made by the provider which term as used herein includes representatives associated the provider . A manual selection having been made the provider can be associated with the selected category as indicated by block . In some embodiments as indicated by block a user interface with presentation of user selectable option s may be generated to allow for confirmation of the one or more categories. The user interface may be exposed to the provider for provider confirmation.

As indicated by block a superset of content may be determined. The system having identified a category of the provider may be determine content required and or otherwise germane for a platform tailored to the provider category. Such content could be based on a category specific platform template. Such content could be based on selections made during a provider analysis process and or a platform definition process as discussed herein. The system may determine whether sufficient content is already retained by the system. In satisfactory content is needed content may be requested from the provider as indicated by block . The system may prompt the provider for missing and helpful required content. As indicated by block a content may be received responsive to the request. The system may process the content and determine whether is the content satisfies the request. The result of such determination may be indicated to the provider. In some embodiments as indicated by block content may be translated as needed. Content can be received in multiple different formats e.g. sizes file types content types etc. and converted to platform requirements. As indicated by block content may be retained in specified format for presentation with the platform.

Platform templates may link certain categories with sets of certain modules . With one or more categories pertinent to a provider based on category and association information retained in the one or more repositories category specific templates may include information about appropriate communication options for the category. For example such category information for a plumber may indicate that basic communication options are appropriate such as voice perhaps in conjunction with video and or messaging. Category information for other types of providers may indicate the need for more advanced options which may correspond to communication graphic analysis and or other modules . For example it may be appropriate for a therapist to have not only video conferencing but also higher resolution video capabilities e.g. to allow for more sensitive expression analysis biofeedback capabilities and or the like.

Platform templates may link certain categories with sets of certain content sets . Category specific templates may include information about appropriate content options for the category. For example anonymized information may be appropriate for certain therapist categories real photos of a professional may be appropriate for certain categories say an orthodontist avatars may be appropriate for other categories etc. In another example a business representative may provide the system uniquely identifying information of a business name Joy of Teeth an address 123 North Street San Francisco Calif. 94103 and a product summary of preventative service and maintenance of human teeth. According to certain embodiments using the uniquely identifying information the system can match the business to a category of dentist and the system can then retrieve a template associated with the category of dentist which template specifies a set of recommended modules and a set of content to request from the business representative.

However the category specific platform based on a particular template may be customizable in some embodiments. As indicated by block one or more user interfaces for user selectable option s for user customization of a platform may be generated. For example options to select and or de select certain platform features may be provided to allow the provider to easily customize the platform. In some embodiments as indicated by block a provider specific question flow for identification of customizations may be presented to facilitate the customization. Potential customizations could be identified as optional for specific categories for example and the question flow could follow a decision tree to identify the most appropriate options for the provider. In some embodiments as indicated by block potential customizations may be inferred based on indicia of provider characteristics as in various embodiments discussed herein. In some embodiments as indicated by block one or more potential customizations may be suggested. For example optional customizations could be suggested for specific categories.

As indicated by block one or more selections of platform components may be processed the provider having chosen certain customizations. As indicated by block one or more user interfaces for preview of a customized platform may be generated. The provider may have the options to accept the current configuration for the customized platform or to continue the customization process.

The platform components may include any one or combination of modules objects content resources component interfaces such as glue code translation profiles with associated translation linking code etc. and or the like. As indicated by block one or more definitions of platform components may be retrieved by the system the component definitions having been predetermined and retained for platform adaptation. Retrieval of definitions of platform components could be based on the bill of materials.

As indicated by block one or more component templates for implementing one or more components may be determined. The component templates could specify interface profiles for integrating the components with the platform application. For example glue code could be used to graft the modules into the application. The component templates could specify interface profiles for retrieving translating and or inserting components such as content descriptions options etc. into allocated spaces.

As indicated by block a plan specifying the platform and component interfaces may be generated and the platform application may be configured according to the plan. The plan may map components and resources for the platform implementation. Processing resources and database resources may be allocated to the platform and specified by the plan. Resource requirements may be predetermined on a component basis and the compilation of components for a particular platform may be assessed to determined the total resource allocation required for the implementation. The plan may include a definition of the platform as a whole including the elements necessary including metadata for the software services to provide platform features. An object creation module may be used to automatically create objects to provision particular components. As indicated by block a request for a set of one or more components of the platform may be processed the request coming from say the provider or a consumer. As indicated by block an interface according to the request for the set of one or more components may be generated. An application constructor may be configured for obtaining components as necessary and constructing an interface. As indicated by block one or more pages may be created based on components and component template s retrieved and loaded from the backend system for use.

As shown in the computing device includes a display and input elements to allow a user to input information into the computing device . By way of example without limitation the input elements may include one or more of a keypad a trackball a touchscreen a touchpad a pointing device a microphone a voice recognition device or any other appropriate mechanism for the user to provide input. The display may include a resistive or capacitive screen. The display may be configured for stylus sensitivity which allows detection of movement of the stylus on the screen. The touch screen capability may be achieved via an electronic position location system capable of determining a location of a selected region of the display screen. A commercially available electronic position location system like the ones that are used in many commercially available devices such as personal digital assistants tablet PCs and smartphones may be used. An exemplary system may comprise a glass or plastic plate with a metallic coating facing a metallic coating on an underside of a layer of Mylar above the glass or plastic plate. Pressing the screen with the stylus brings the plate and the Mylar layer in contact with each other so that an electrical current flows through them. By measuring the electrical current from two sides of the display screen a computer program then determines the vertical and horizontal position of the stylus. By sampling contact locations at a predetermined rate such as 100 times a second or faster the display screen can detect the position of the stylus. In other examples there can be a grid of wires under the display screen that can be activated after interaction with the stylus. The x y position can be determined with a processor inside the apparatus.

The input elements may include one or more of card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like. The input elements may include a set of one or more of the following physiological sensors bioimpedance respiration respiration rate variability heart rate average minimum maximum heart rhythm heart rate variability respiratory sounds blood pressure activity posture and or temperature heat flux. The input elements may include an activity sensor that may be one or more of the following ball switch accelerometer heart rate bioimpedance noise skin temperature heat flux blood pressure muscle noise posture. In some embodiments heart rate or other physiological aspects may be detected in conjunction with the flash of the camera. For example a consumer could place his finger over the flash so that heart rate may be detected.

The computing device includes a memory communicatively coupled to a processor e.g. a microprocessor for processing the functions of the computing device . The computing device may include at least one antenna for wireless data transfer.

The computing device may also include a microphone to allow a user to transmit voice communication through the computing device and a speaker to allow the user to hear voice communication music etc. In addition the computing device may include one or more interfaces in addition to the antenna e.g. a wireless interface coupled to an antenna. The communications interfaces can provide a near field communication interface e.g. contactless interface Bluetooth optical interface etc. and or wireless communications interfaces capable of communicating through a cellular network such as GSM or through Wi Fi such as with a wireless local area network WLAN . Accordingly the computing device may be capable of transmitting and receiving information wirelessly through both short range radio frequency RF and cellular and Wi Fi connections.

Additionally the computing device can be capable of communicating with a Global Positioning System GPS in order to determine a location of the computing device . In the embodiment shown in the antenna may include a cellular antenna e.g. for sending and receiving cellular voice and data communication such as through a network such as a 12G or 4G network and interfaces may include one or more local communication interfaces. The antenna may include GPS receiver functionality. In other embodiments contemplated herein communication with the computing device may be conducted with a single antenna configured for multiple purposes e.g. cellular transactions GPS etc. or with further interfaces e.g. three four or more separate interfaces .

The computing device can also include at least one computer readable medium coupled to the processor which stores application programs and other computer code instructions for operating the device such as an operating system OS . The mobile application may be stored in the memory and or computer readable media . The computer readable medium can include a sensing application to gather and or process any suitable information regarding the consumer in accordance with various embodiments including for example data gathered from sensors of the computing device . In certain embodiments the sensing application can automatically run each time that a user accesses the mobile application . In some embodiments the sensing application can run continuously e.g. in the background or at other times such as when the mobile application is initiated by a user. With some embodiments the sensing application is separate from the mobile application . In other embodiments the mobile application may include the sensing application . In some embodiments the mobile application and or the sensing application can include a customizable user interface UI which can be determined by the user s preferences through application level programming.

The computer readable medium can also include an image processing engine . The image processing engine can capture an image and compress the image in a format readable by a central processing server.

The computing device can additionally include one or more imaging elements such as an integrated camera capable of capturing images and or video and output elements . In certain embodiments the computing device may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. memory for storing images captured with the one or more imaging elements . In alternative embodiments the computing device receives image data from an image capture device that is not integrated with the computing device and stores those images on the aforementioned non transitory storage medium.

In some embodiments image information is captured using at least one imaging element computing device. In some embodiments the image information includes image information for at least a portion of a user of the computing device. The image information in some embodiments includes a brightness level of an area around the electronic device. In some embodiments the image information may include video and or still images. The one or more imaging elements may include one or more IR sensors cameras iris detectors heat sensors ambient light sensor or other image capturing technology for capturing the image information. In some embodiments computing device may use one or a combination of different imaging elements to capture the image information. Some embodiments may capture the image information continuously or periodically e.g. every few seconds .

The display screen of some embodiments displays information to the viewer facing the display screen e.g. on the same side of the computing device as the display screen . The computing device in this example can include one or more imaging elements in this example including image capture elements on the front of the device and image capture elements on the back of the device. It should be understood however that image capture elements could also or alternatively be placed on the sides or corners of the device and that there can be any appropriate number of capture elements of similar or different types. The imaging elements also can be of similar or different types.

In some embodiments one or more IR detectors may be able to capture the infrared radiation that is reflected back from a surface such as a viewer s retinas in a direction that is substantially orthogonal and or at other angles to the capture plane of the detector. In some embodiments a computing device may utilize one or more IR emitters e.g. IR light emitting diodes LEDs IR laser diodes or other such components to illuminate a consumer s face with the reflected light being captured by a IR sensor.

In some embodiments the platform may include a graphical user interface and may display images that may include one or more selectable items included in the graphical user interface. An input device may be movable in free space and may be configured to point to the selectable items. In some examples an input device such as a stylus a pen finger contact etc. may be used to write or mark up the image by for example making notations or sketching or the like on the displayed image. In some embodiments the platform may provide a graphical user interface with a whiteboard feature allowing a service provider and or consumer to write or draw on the whiteboard.

In various embodiments a service provider platform may track calls messages billing etc. and enable service providers to interact with the platform to retrieve see and use the data. A feed of information and or a dashboard could be in a web portal and or provided via a mobile application. The service provider could customize the dashboard and or the feeds. In some embodiment for example the service provider can supply default templates and include portions of the templates that can be ignored.

Certain embodiments may provide for consumer history analysis. Certain embodiments may provide a consumer history engine that manages collects retrieves updates and or retains information relevant to a particular consumer. Certain embodiments may automatically identify a caller correlate the caller to a consumer profile and provide consumer profile information to the service provider to enrich the assistance session by making consumer profile information available to the service provider. Consumer profile information may provide the service provider with valuable context.

Certain embodiments may allow a service provider to record consumer information in a repository for later reference. Such provision of historical information particular to a consumer may allow the service provider to provide information appropriate for the consumer s specific needs. Certain embodiments may provide system features that automatically analyze and present historical information for a consumer for example via the service provider dashboard. The analysis of the information may include comparison of current information to past information for the consumer.

Certain embodiments may provide for consumer equipment configuration analysis. The particular information available to and service provider may depend on the capabilities and configuration of the media used. In some embodiments the platform may retrieve and or identify information about the capabilities of the consumer s computing device and or communication medium assess the capabilities against various analytical possibilities of a given service provider and present capability information to the service provider.

In certain aspects the service provider interface for the advising platform may include a dashboard . For example after a service provider logs into the platform different data points that can be of use for the service provider may be presented to the service provider to facilitate advising. The dashboard may include any software process or module operable to present and receive information to from a service provider allow a service provider to monitor consumer information select different types of consumer related data identify desired metrics automatically generate dashboard views customize dashboard views and or the like. The example of the dashboard is not limiting. In some embodiments a dashboard may correspond to a mobile application interface.

In some embodiments the dashboard may correspond to a page of the platform and or an app that a service provider might see upon being connected with a consumer. The dashboard may provide a graphical user interface GUI that includes any number and type of user selectable options to facilitate various embodiments. In various embodiments one or more user selectable options may include one or more of a screen labeled function key an icon a button a soft button a window a menu a control widget a scroll bar a slider a listbox and or the like. In various embodiments one or more user selectable options may be selectable via one or more of touch push movement based selection and or any suitable navigation feature.

In various embodiments the user selectable options may include one or more of an account feature a service provider profile management feature a service provider statistics feature a call management feature and or the like. The service provider page may allow for a high level presentation of features that allow for accessing more specific features. In various embodiments any one of the features of the dashboard may include automatically presented information. Information of interest may be automatically presented to the service provider.

In some embodiments the platform information handling system may include one or more account management modules. The account management module may be configured to allow a service provider to manage the service provider s account. Management options may be provided for the service provider to make changes to the account contact customer service change update the service provider s profile change update the service provider s preferences create change update the service provider s advertisements select various advertising products management call back settings manage alert settings and or the like.

A service provider account management module may include logic to retrieve process derive compile aggregate handle store report and or present information about items of interest associated with service provider accounts. For example items of interest could include activities associated with a service provider account. Items of interest could include whether a service provider is missing calls from consumers and other information associated with the missed calls such as details surrounding the missed e.g. number of calls times of calls numbers called caller information location information and or the like . Items of interest could include any billing information associated with the account. Items of interest could include any messages calls associated with the account such as messages from customer service from consumer and or the like.

In some embodiments a ratings reviews feature may be configured to present access to details regarding ratings and or reviews associated with a service provider s services. The ratings and or reviews may correspond to consumer feedback per surveys and or any suitable feedback gathering tool.

In some embodiments a call statistics feature may be configured to present access to details regarding any of the service provider s calls. In some embodiments for example access to details about a call and or a particular customer can be provided in a variety of ways. In some embodiments for example access can be provided to details about a call by a particular consumer calls per particular location calls using a particular number calls of interest which may be based on any suitable additional information such as intelligence about a particular caller of interest a particular location of interest etc. calls that were successfully connected missed calls dropped calls calls receiving a busy tone call back statistics call lengths and or the like. For instance the call of interest feature could identify a number of calls from a particular caller in a particular time period as an indication of interest. As another example the call back statistics features could indicate a service provider s average time to call a consumer back.

In some embodiments consumer profile information may be presented. Certain embodiments may automatically identify a caller correlate the caller to a consumer profile and provide consumer profile information to the service provider to enrich the advising session. The consumer profile information may provide the service provider with valuable context. The consumer profile information may include information about a particular consumer such as information relating to consumer location biographical data health conditions life conditions problems advice provided etc. The consumer profile information may include tracked information and retained information pursuant to one or more previous advising sessions. In some embodiments such consumer related information could be provided by the consumer the service provider and or via automatic detection by the system. Certain embodiments may provide for a consumer history engine that manages collects retrieves updates and or retains information relevant to a particular consumer. For example such tracked information may include information about a consumer s facial expressions which may include micro expressions voice speaking body language gestures emotional indicia writing environmental context and or the like. Such tracked information for a particular consumer could be made available to a service provider before during and or after an advising session for the consumer. Accordingly for each consumer a dossier could be compiled and made available to a service provider to facilitate advising the consumer.

The service provider may have the ability to annotate the consumer profile according to the service provider s judgment and such information may be retained and for subsequent reference and comparison. The service provider may record consumer information for later reference. Such provision of historical information particular to a consumer may allow the service provider to provide information appropriate for the consumer s specific needs.

In some embodiments information relating to equipment that a consumer uses and or has used to interface with one or more service providers may be presented. For example information about one or several specific devices device configurations and or device capabilities that a given consumer uses could be detected and or tracked and presented to the service provider so that the service provider is aware of the capabilities on the consumer side. The particular information available to a service provider may depend on the capabilities and configuration of the media used. In some embodiments the platform may retrieve and or identify information relating to the capabilities of the consumer s computing device and or communication medium compare the capabilities against various analytical possibilities of a given service provider and present capability information to the service provider. For example a computing device with a voice over IP capabilities may enable analysis of voice and speaking. For example based on the consumer s configuration information it may or may not be possible for certain aspects of the consumer s facial expressions which may include micro expressions voice speaking body language gestures emotional indicia writing environmental context etc. to be analyzed. For example the resolution of the camera on the consumer s computing device may limit the extent to which certain image based aspects may be analyzed. In some embodiments for example an analysis of the consumer s iris may require a minimum threshold of resolution for effective analysis. The consumer s computing device may or may not have writing capabilities to allow for the consumer s writing to be readily analyzed. For example the consumer s computing device may allow the consumer to write on the device screen with a finger stylus or other tool of the consumer.

In some embodiments a video interface may be provided. The video interface may provide for one or two way video communication between service provider and consumer. In some embodiments a video chat session could be established between service provider and consumer. An option to initiate a video chat session could be presented. In some embodiments the video interface may include navigation features . Video content could be buffered and or recorded to facilitate navigation and advising. The navigation features could include options to pause play stop fast forward rewind skip forward skip backward skip to certain times and or the like. The options could include a selectable navigation bar. In some embodiments the video interface may allow for saving of video for further reference and or analysis. In some embodiments the video interface may allow for retrieving and replay of previous video content e.g. from a previous video session. This may allow for enhanced advising.

In some embodiments image analysis features may be provided. In some embodiments a service provider and or the platform information handling system may utilize face biometric and or like recognition analysis e.g. using pattern classification techniques to determine characteristics of the consumer. Certain embodiments may provide for parsing techniques that identify and measure movements and or various physical aspects of the imagery. For example movements and or various physical aspects of the consumer s face eyes and or the like may be identified and measured. Physical aspects could be correlated to the geometrical shapes recorded and compared to reference information including for example previous information for the same subject and or other reference information.

Captured image information may be analyzed to determine a state and or a characteristic of a consumer. In some embodiments image information may include a portion of the consumer user such as the user s face eyes hands chest etc. By analyzing the captured image information the service provider and or the system may determine the state and or a characteristic. Image information may be analyzed to determine whether there is a change in the service provider s states. In some embodiments any one or combination of triggers may be detected e.g. rapid change in eye movement and or facial movement . Upon detecting the trigger s the service provider and or the system may determine various characteristics. In one example information of the user s chest may be analyzed to determine that the consumer s breathing rate has slowed down beyond a threshold value or increased beyond a threshold value indicating various states responses of stress agitation emotion anxiety excitement etc. In another example captured information of the consumer s blood vessel s veins may be analyzed to determine that the consumer s heart rate has sped up or slowed down indicating various states responses of stress agitation emotion anxiety excitement etc. Some embodiments may also analyze information of the consumer s eyes e.g. eyelids pupils to determine various indicia of states responses.

In some embodiments reference indicia such as cross hairs and or target aperture so that the service provider may focus the video with zoom features on various aspects of the subject imagery provided by the consumer such as the consumer s face or other physical aspects. For example the service provider may wish to closely examine any suitable physical feature of the consumer to facilitate the advising session. A service provider in the area of iridology for instance may wish to closely focus on the iris of the subject in order to analyze and or explain aspects based on thereon. In some embodiments reference indicia may allow for selection of certain aspects of imagery for focused image analysis of those aspects by the system.

In some embodiments image loading features may be provided to view upload download or otherwise handle still images. An image viewing and or editing could be provided in addition to or in alternative to the view interface . In some embodiments image editing marking features may be provided. One or more selectable items included in the graphical user interface to allow writing and or marking the image by for example making notations or sketching or the like on the displayed image. In some embodiments the platform may provide a graphical user interface with a whiteboard feature . The whiteboard feature can allow a service provider and or consumer to write or draw on a whiteboard that could be provided in addition to or in alternative to the view interface .

In some embodiments voice analysis features may be configured for voice and or language analysis of voice input provided by the consumer. As previously noted certain embodiments may provide for detecting and characterizing a consumer s voice. Spectral analysis techniques may be applied to indicate for example a consumer s emotional state. The platform could analyze the consumer s voice and present certain analysis results to the service provider for example with graphics. For example such information may be presented to the service provider via a service provider dashboard. Any suitable voice analysis technique may be employed. In some embodiments various alternative and well established analysis techniques may be presented as options to the service provider such that the service provider may choose one or more of the techniques to be employed for a particular consumer. In some embodiments an analysis for a consumer may be compared to data retained from one or more past advising sessions for the consumer. The detected voice data may be assigned a score and compared to reference information for the consumer and or other reference information.

In some embodiments environmental analysis features may be provided for detecting and characterizing a consumer s environment. As previously noted in some embodiments an environmental analysis for a consumer may be compared to data retained from one or more past advising sessions for the consumer. A normal environmental state may be identified for a consumer. Changes with the respect to the normal state may be identified and presented to the service provider for example via the dashboard. Environmental information may be detected through the media used. For example background noise may be detected and measured and or characterized during a phone call or video session. The background noise may be assigned a score and compared to reference information for the consumer and or other reference information. Environmental information may be more specifically identified. For example noise from a TV other people traffic sirens trains pets etc. may be more particularly identified. The service provider may have the ability to annotate the consumer profile according to the service provider s judgment and such information may be retained and for subsequent reference and comparison.

In some embodiments consumer history analysis features may be provided for analyzing and presenting any suitable historical information. The analysis of the information may include comparison of current information to past information for the consumer. Past information may be graphically compared with current information via the dashboard .

The system may include a threshold detection component may analyze any consumer related information voice movements or any sensed input for example in reference to any suitable threshold. When a threshold has been met or exceeded a notification may be presented to service provider via the dashboard. The threshold may be predetermined and or customizable by the service provider. The threshold may be set by the system as a default. The threshold may be based on system analysis of past information for the consumer. For example past voice analysis may indicate certain norms averages ranges and or other characteristics of an individual consumer s voice pattern. One or more thresholds may be based on such past characteristics. For example an input signal amplitude exceeding or falling below a threshold for an amount of time may be flagged. Thus when a consumer exhibits uncharacteristic voice aspects that exceeded the one or more thresholds a notification may be graphically indicated to service provider via the dashboard.

In some embodiments sensor analysis features may be provided. The sensor analysis features may be based on input elements that include one or more of the following physiological sensors bioimpedance respiration respiration rate variability heart rate average minimum maximum heart rhythm heart rate variability respiratory sounds blood pressure activity posture and or temperature heat flux. The input elements may include an activity sensor that may be one or more of the following ball switch accelerometer heart rate bioimpedance noise skin temperature heat flux blood pressure muscle noise posture. In some embodiments heart rate or other physiological aspects may be detected in conjunction with the flash of the camera. For example a consumer could place his finger over the flash so that heart rate may be detected.

A graphic selection feature may be configured to present access to details of advising information and or any suitable data according to various embodiments herein in any suitable format with any suitable graphics. By way of non limiting example pie charts bar graphs line graphs tables with features allowing ordering and or filtering of data according to any suitable criteria matrices Venn diagrams images photos and or the like may be implemented according to various embodiments. In some embodiments the graphic selection feature may allow for service provider customization and or manipulations of graphics presented with the dashboard .

It is to be understood that the depicted dashboard is for example purposes only. Accordingly the dashboard may provide a GUI that may include or present data for a service provider interface of an advising platform in any suitable format with any suitable layout of any suitable sets subsets of features along with any desired graphical depiction of information to facilitate features of various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The platform information handling system may include one or more logging modules. The logging module s may be configured to perform logging processes to receive and log data of interest for advising sessions. A consumer analytics module s may include logic configured to retrieve process derive compile aggregate handle store report and or present information relating to data associated with consumers. The consumer analytics module may be configured to present any desirable information in any desirable manner. With respect to a particular service provider the logging module and analytics module may facilitate various features of a service provider interface for an advising platform in accordance with certain embodiments herein.

The logging module may include tracking logic to track calls in accordance with certain embodiments. In some embodiments the logging module may be configured to identify whether a caller is successfully connected with a service provider whether the call is missed whether the call is dropped disconnected receives a busy tone whether the call is routed to voicemail and or whether a voicemail is left. In some embodiments the logging module may include ANI logic to identify numbers of callers. In some embodiments the logging module may be configured to track the length of calls. In some embodiments the logging module may be configured to record calls.

In some embodiments the consumer analytics module may be configured to present comparative data. For example current consumer data may be compared to past consumer data. Any type of consumer data may be compared. A service provider may have user selectable options to select different types of statistics for comparison and order by different types of statistics.

Referring next to an exemplary environment with which embodiments may be implemented is shown with a computer system that can be used by a designer to design for example electronic designs. The computer system can include a computer keyboard a network router a printer and a monitor . The monitor processor and keyboard are part of a computer system which can be a laptop computer desktop computer handheld computer mainframe computer etc. The monitor can be a CRT flat screen etc.

A designer can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a designer can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN.

The server may for example be used to store additional software programs and data. In some embodiments software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that directs the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Oracle LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

