---

title: Automatic processing with multi-selection interface
abstract: A multi-selection system allows selection of multiple displayed items in a GUI, and processes an underlying data set based on the selection. Users may utilize swipes or concurrent point interactions with the GUI to co-select items. The system identifies actions to perform for selected items based on selection criteria associated with the selected items, or mapping data that maps the selected items to actions. The system automatically identifies grouping criteria for data returned from performed actions and displays resulting groups for further user selection. The system provides suggestive visual highlights that identify commonly co-selected items in the interface. The system collects instrumentation items, for historical usage data, that record aspects of users' interactions with the system. As such, the system may identify, from the historical usage data, sets of commonly co-selected items, mappings between combinations of items and one or more actions, productive arrangements of items displayed in GUIs, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09612720&OS=09612720&RS=09612720
owner: Apollo Education Group, Inc.
number: 09612720
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140830
---
The present invention relates to efficient processing of data based on intelligent multi selection of graphical user interface items.

Graphical user interfaces GUIs allow software providers to communicate with a user efficiently and attractively and to provide mechanisms by which a user can easily provide a software system with information. Many times a GUI displays multiple items such as multiple pieces of data and allows a user to select one or more of the displayed items.

A GUI that allows a user to select multiple items may provide the user with controls to select each desired item individually e.g. with checkbox controls toggle controls controls that allow the user to drill down through a hierarchy of items etc. Some GUIs also provide a user with a select all option which automatically causes all selectable items to be simultaneously selected. However it can be time consuming for a user to sequentially select only desired items especially if the user wants to select some available items but not all of them.

GUIs that present items for selection in a list control generally allow the user to select multiple items using shift click to co select all items between the previously selected item and the item that is the target of the shift click inclusive of the end items and using ctrl click to add the subject of the ctrl click to the set of currently selected items . However it can be tedious to select non contiguous items in a list control.

Furthermore GUIs that present multiple selectable items via a grid control generally allow a user to select all items in a particular row or column and to swipe across cells in the grid to select multiple grid cells in a block. Such a swipe selects all cells in the grid that are in columns that intervene between the start column and end column of the swipe inclusive of the start and end columns and that are in rows that intervene between the start row and end row of the swipe inclusive of the start and end rows . As with a list a user may select and de select particular items using ctrl click. It can be tedious to select non contiguous desired items or to select desired items that are not all in a single row column or block of cells in a grid control.

Thus it would be beneficial to provide a method to improve selection of multiple displayed items in a GUI and provide functionality connected with multiple selected items.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

A multi selection system is described hereafter which allows selection of multiple displayed items in a GUI and processing of an underlying data set based on this selection. Using the co selection techniques described herein users may quickly and efficiently communicate commands in the interface. Users may utilize swipe or concurrent point style interactions with the GUI to quickly co select multiple items.

In one embodiment the system automatically identifies actions to perform for the selected items based on selection criteria associated with the selected items or mapping data that maps a combination of the selected items to one or more actions. Actions performed on the underlying data set may act as a query that returns query results. The system automatically identifies grouping criteria for data returned in query results and displays items representing the resulting groups for further user selection.

To aid a user in determining which items to co select the system provides suggestive visual highlights. Such highlights may be provided in response to activation of a help button or in response to the user initiating selection of items. Suggestive visual highlights identify for the user commonly co selected items in the interface.

Information needed to perform the functions of the multi selection system is derived from historical usage data. The system collects instrumentation items for the historical usage data that record aspects of users interactions with the system. As such the system may identify from the historical usage data gathered for the particular user interacting with the system or for users that are similar to the particular user sets of commonly co selected items mappings between combinations of items and one or more actions productive arrangements of items displayed in GUIs etc.

Techniques are described hereafter for allowing selection and processing of multiple co selected items in a graphical user interface. is a block diagram that depicts an example network arrangement for providing such a multi selection graphical user interface according to embodiments. Network arrangement includes a client device a client device and a server device communicatively coupled via a network . Server device is also communicatively coupled to a database . Example network arrangement may include other devices including client devices server devices and display devices according to embodiments. For example one or more of the services attributed to server device herein may run on other server devices that are communicatively coupled to network .

Client devices and may be implemented by any type of computing device that is communicatively connected to network . Example implementations of client devices and include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices such as smart phones video game consoles and any other type of computing device. Client device and client device need not but may be implemented similarly within embodiments.

In network arrangement client device is configured with a multi selection client and a browser that displays a web page . Client device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Multi selection client may be implemented in any number of ways including as a plug in to browser as an application running in connection with web page as a stand alone application running on client device etc. Multi selection client may be implemented by one or more logical modules and is described in further detail below. Browser is configured to interpret and display web pages that are received over network e.g. web page such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages and eXtensible Markup Language XML pages etc.

Further client device is communicatively coupled to a display device not shown in for displaying graphical user interfaces such as graphical user interfaces of web page . Such a display device may be implemented by any type of device capable of displaying a graphical user interface. Example implementations of a display device include a monitor a screen a touch screen a projector a light display a display of a tablet computer a display of a telephony device a television etc.

To illustrate display of a particular GUI multi selection client on client device receives information for a web page which includes a particular GUI such as any GUI described herein from GUI configuration service of server device . Browser of client device interprets the information for web page and displays via a display device the particular GUI.

According to an embodiment client device is configured with a multi selection client and a browser that perform functions similar to the functions performed by multi selection client and browser of client device as described herein.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client device client device and server device . Furthermore network may facilitate use of any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular embodiment.

Server device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with a client device over network . In network arrangement server device is configured with an action service a GUI configuration service and an instrumentation service . One or more of services may be part of a cloud computing service. Services may be implemented by one or more logical modules and are described in further detail below. Server device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Server device is communicatively coupled to database . Database maintains at least two bodies of data information items and instrumentation items . Database may reside in any type of storage including volatile and non volatile storage e.g. random access memory RAM a removable or disk drive main memory etc. and may be implemented by one or more logical databases. The storage on which database resides may be external or internal to server device .

Any of multi selection client and services may receive and respond to Application Programming Interface API calls Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messages requests via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or any other kind of communication e.g. from one of the other services or multi selection client . Further any of Multi selection client and services may send one or more such communications over network e.g. to one of the other entities of the system.

Functionality attributed to one or more of services and multi selection client may be performed by a different service client such as another of services or multi selection client according to embodiments. In an embodiment each of the processes described in connection with one or more of multi selection client and services are performed automatically and may be implemented using one or more computer programs other software elements and or digital logic in any of a general purpose computer or a special purpose computer while performing data retrieval transformation and storage operations that involve interacting with and transforming the physical state of memory of the computer.

Users may interact with a GUI that displays multiple items in various ways. To illustrate depicts interactions with a GUI that displays multiple items . A distinct portion of GUI is dedicated to each displayed item such that a user may select a particular item by performing an action that targets the portion of the GUI dedicated to that particular item. As used herein an interaction event is an event that causes a GUI to register an interaction such as a touch on a touch screen or a gesture that registers with a motion detector etc. Point style interactions and swipe style interactions are two common types of interaction events.

In the example of GUI multi selection client detects a point style interaction or point that targets item . Typically a point style interaction targets a displayed item when at least a majority of the surface area of the point style interaction overlaps with the GUI area dedicated to depiction of the displayed item. According to an embodiment a point style interaction targets a particular point or relatively small portion of a GUI. Examples of a relatively small portion of a GUI is a portion of the GUI that is as small as or smaller than a portion of the interface dedicated to a particular displayed item the width of a displayed item the height of a displayed item a certain threshold size either set by an administrator or by the user etc.

According to one embodiment a point style interaction targets only a single item no matter what the shape of the interaction. In this embodiment point is considered a point style interaction because point only targets a single item in GUI i.e. item .

In the example of GUI multi selection client also detects a swipe style interaction . A swipe style interaction or swipe is an interaction that swipes across at least two items in a GUI i.e. in a single stroke. A swipe style interaction may be enacted by touching a touch enabled display at a start point i.e. start point moving the touch interaction along a path over the GUI that intersects with portions of the GUI that depict the desired items and ending the touch interaction once all desired items have been swiped over i.e. at end point . In this example swipe targets items and because the path of swipe intersects items and . Because a swipe style interaction swipes across multiple items a swipe such as swipe has a start point i.e. start point and an end point i.e. end point .

A swipe need not have a path that is a straight line but may have a path that includes one or more changes of direction such as swipe . Swipe targets items and . Swipes target items in a particular order given the path of the swipe. For example swipe targets items and in that order given the positions of start point and end point of swipe .

Interactions with a GUI may be detected by multi selection client via a touch screen. Such interactions may be performed with one or more objects that touch the screen. Typical objects used to touch the screen include a single finger multiple fingers a single stylus etc. Multi selection client may also detect interactions with a GUI via one or more non touch input sources including but not limited to a body motion sensor a voice recognizer a camera an eye motion detector a virtual reality interface device a stylus or magnet motion detector a mouse etc. A non touch input source such as a motion sensor may be calibrated to identify hand or finger motions that perform the swipe and point style interactions described herein. Each Interaction event has a start time a shape or surface area a location a path with a start point and end point which may be the same location in the case of a point style interaction and a stop time.

According to embodiments swipes described herein and depicted in the accompanying figures may be enacted by multiple point style interactions that respectively target each of the multiple items targeted by the described swipe.

Multi selection of GUI items can be used to manipulate data in an underlying database. Such functionality can be useful to allow a user to dynamically and quickly parse through large information stores using a simple interface. depicts a flowchart for using multi selection of GUI items to drill down through categories of items. Flowcharts herein depict example embodiments and do not limit the scope of the invention. For example features described in connection with a particular flowchart may be used in combination with features described in connection with one or more other flowcharts.

At step a database of information items is maintained wherein each information item in the database is associated with metadata. For example action service maintains in database a database of information items for a particular institution of learning. In this example information items include one or more of syllabus data activity grade roster and announcement data for one or more school classes private messages sent to and drafted for a particular mailbox drafts of other documents submitted to the system such as in connection with one or more of the school classes etc.

Information items are associated with metadata. For example a particular piece of information in information items is a message. The message comprises text a subject line and a source and destination. The message is also associated with other information such as one or more of an identifier of a user that authored the message a date and time the message was authored or sent a course identifier for a course that the message relates to etc. Any piece of information associated with an information item may be considered metadata of the item.

Each of information items is associated with a type of item such as a syllabus type item a message type item a grade type item a course type item etc. An information item may be associated with one or more child items which are information items that contain information germane to the parent information item. An information item is directly associated with metadata of the information item and is indirectly associated with metadata of one or more items that relate to the item e.g. the item s parent the item s siblings children of the item s parent .

At step of flowchart a computing device displays a plurality of selectable items in a graphical user interface GUI wherein each selectable item of the plurality of selectable items represents one or more selection criteria. For example multi selection client receives information for GUI of and causes client device to display GUI at a display device. GUI includes selectable items .

Each of selectable items is associated with one or more selection criteria. Items that are associated with one or more selection criteria are referred to herein as selection criteria items . To illustrate selection criteria for GUI the following shows mappings of items in GUI to corresponding selection criteria which mappings may be stored in database 

At step the computing device detects an interaction with the GUI that co selects two or more selectable items of the plurality of selectable items. For example multi selection client of client device detects swipe depicted in GUI of . Swipe targets selection criteria items and which are therefore co selected by swipe . Co selection of items is selection of the items during the same interaction of a user with a GUI i.e. as a group. Co selection is an indication from the user that the user wishes the items to be jointly processed or processed similarly. Multi selection client sends information indicating co selection of selection criteria items and to action service .

Multi selection client may visually highlight selected items e.g. by visual highlights and depicted in GUI or by any other means including by shading the representation of a selected item a different color than the non selected items. No other items are selected i.e. selection criteria items remain unselected because no other selection criteria items were intersected by swipe .

According to an embodiment steps are performed in response to detecting the interaction with the GUI at step . In an embodiment one or more of steps are performed before completion of the interaction with the GUI is detected or in other words while the interaction is being detected. Instead of or in addition to performing some steps while the interaction is being detected some steps may be performed after or in response to completion of the interaction. Thus in an embodiment one or more of steps are performed after or in response to detecting completion of the interaction with the GUI.

At step it is determined which information items in the database satisfy the selection criteria represented by at least one of the two or more co selected selection criteria items. For example action service identifies in information items information items that satisfy the selection criteria of one or more of selection criteria items and . In the present example selection criteria item corresponds to select information items that are either roster type information items or child items of one or more roster type information items and selection criteria item corresponds to select information items are grade type items . Thus at step it is determined which information items are either roster type information items or child items of one or more roster type information items or grade type items .

According to an embodiment action service also identifies information items that satisfy the selection criteria of all of the selected selection criteria items i.e. both selection criteria items and . In the present example the information items that satisfy the selection criteria of selection criteria item and the selection criteria item are those information items that are both either roster type information items or child items of one or more roster type information items and grade type items .

According to another embodiment action service first attempts to identify information items that satisfy the selection criteria of all of the selected selection criteria items. Then if there are no information items satisfy the selection criteria for all of the selected criteria items the action service identifies information items in information items that satisfy the selection criteria of at least one of the selected selection criteria items.

In an example where a user co selects item Grades with item Recent Activity there would likely be information items that satisfy selection criteria for both selected items. In an embodiment in response to determining that there are information items that satisfy selection criteria for all selected selection criteria items action service identifies those information items that satisfy selection criteria for all co selected selection criteria items rather than just information items that satisfy selection criteria for at least one of the co selected selection criteria items.

At step the information items in the database that satisfy the selection criteria represented by at least one of the two or more co selected selection criteria items are established as a first set of information items. For example action service establishes the set of information items that satisfy at least one of the criteria for the co selected selection criteria items and as a first set of information items.

At step after identifying the first set of information items a plurality of groups from the first set of information items are formed wherein for each group of the plurality of groups all information items in the group have at least one metadata value for at least one metadata attribute in common. For example one group may all share the same creation date another group may share the same author etc. As a further example the groups are organized based on metadata values for a particular metadata attribute such as an associated semester. In this example items in one group are all associated with the semester fall 2012 items in another group are all associated with the semester spring 2013 etc.

According to embodiments action service dynamically identifies metadata for information items in the first set that may be used to group the information items. Administrators may provide action service a list of types of metadata that are preferable to be used as grouping criteria. Further action service may automatically determine metadata upon which to form groups based on the number of groups that particular metadata would create. For example action service may be configured to automatically determine and use metadata that would result in the lowest number of groups. Identification of grouping metadata may be based on any number of factors.

As an example of grouping the first set of information items action service determines that all of the information items in the first set relate to courses that the requesting user took during particular semesters. Action service groups the information items into groups based on common semesters such as Fall 2012 Spring 2013 etc. based on a determination that grouping based on semesters results in a number of groups that is less than a threshold value. All information items in a particular group pertain to the same semester. In other examples action service groups the information items in the first set by one or more of type of related course professor teaching the various related courses a size of the related course etc.

At step a plurality of sub category items are displayed in the GUI wherein each sub category item represents a certain group of the plurality of groups. For example action service provides the information about the groupings to GUI configuration service which causes multi selection client to display a GUI such as GUI of with items that represent each group identified by action service respectively.

GUI displays items that correspond to each group identified by action service respectively. Items are labeled with the metadata that each group has in common i.e. semesters that the user has enrolled in courses that are associated with grades or roster data in the first set of information items. In the embodiment of GUI multi selection client also displays items and which allows the user to identify whether the user wishes to see information items from selected semesters that satisfy selection criteria for the grades item and for the roster item or information items that satisfy selection criteria for only one of the selection criteria items and .

To illustrate usage of GUI swipe swipes over selection criteria items and which indicates to multi selection client that the user wishes to see only grades data for semesters summer 2014 and spring 2014 . Swipe swipes over selection criteria items and which indicates to multi selection client that the user wishes to see grades and roster data for semesters summer 2014 and spring 2014 .

According to an embodiment in which drill down checkbox is included in GUI in response to detecting swipe multi selection client determines whether drill down checkbox is selected. In response to determining that drill down checkbox is not selected multi selection client displays all roster and grades data for the indicated semesters.

However if multi selection client determines that drill down checkbox is selected and in embodiments that do not include a control such as drill down checkbox action service identifies all roster and grades data for the indicated semesters as information items in a second set. Action service determines whether there is metadata that if made the basis of grouping the second set would result in less than a threshold number of groups.

For example action service determines that the information items in the second set may be grouped based on course identifiers. Action service communicates to GUI configuration service the identified groupings for the second set of information items. As such GUI configuration service causes multi selection client to display GUI of which displays items that represent courses associated with roster and grades data from the semesters that were co selected in GUI .

In the example of the user performs swipe which selects items and as well as particular of the displayed course items i.e. courses A B E and G . In response to detecting swipe action service identifies those information items from the second set that satisfy selection criteria for the co selected items displayed in GUI i.e. information items that are grades or roster data from courses A B E and G. Multi selection client does not display information items for any semesters or classes that were not selected by the user.

In another embodiment GUI configuration service does not display items and in GUIs similar to GUIs and but identifies information items that satisfy selection criteria of the originally selected items top level items without giving the user further opportunity to select one or more of the originally selected items i.e. items and . To illustrate GUI of depicts instructions that remind the user of the user s previous selection of the grades and roster items. In the embodiment of GUI instructions also provide context for items displayed for the user s selection i.e. items represent semesters . Action service performs further processing upon detecting swipe which selects particular semesters for which the user would like grades and roster information as described above.

According to an embodiment multi selection client displays a GUI that includes items that represent data from information items . Displayed items that represent particular information items from information items are referred to herein as data display items . For example referring to a web page includes GUI . GUI depicts data display items that are the results of the selection depicted in GUI of described in detail above . According to embodiments data display items may depict groups of information items or may depict individual information items or may display information from information items in detailed or summary form. Furthermore a GUI with data display items may or may not display results from a user selecting one or more selection criteria items.

A user may utilize a GUI with data display items such as GUI to select the data items on which to perform an action. For example in the embodiment illustrated in multi selection client detects co selection of data display items and via swipe . Swipe which co selects data display items and effectively selects the information items that correspond to data display items and . In the present example those information items are the grades for Course A and Course B respectively.

According to one embodiment in response to selection of one or more data display items in GUI the user is presented with a set of action items such as those depicted in window of . As used herein action items refers to items that correspond to commands that may be performed on an underlying data set. Such commands may be for example delete modify duplicate etc. In the example illustrated in the action items are for the actions of displaying adding to a resume printing and creating a report.

The action to which action items correspond may vary based on the nature of the underlying data items. For example when the underlying data items are grades the actions may be those depicted in . On the other hand if the underlying data items are videos the action may include actions such as delete check out play print send buy rent etc.

According to embodiments multi selection client provides the user with one or more process all buttons that allow the user to perform a function for all of the displayed data items e.g. create report button print button and display button . A user may also perform one or more functions or actions on a subset of the displayed data items by co selecting the items and then performing the function on only the selected items.

According to one embodiment in response to swipe action service determines whether there are any default actions that may be performed for all of the co selected information items. Particular actions may be specific to particular types of information items. For example dimension transformation actions are applicable to information items with dimension such as images and videos but are not applicable to information items without dimension such as text and audio . However other actions may be applied to any item such as a buy action or a print action.

If one or more actions that are applicable to all of the targeted information items are identified as default actions action service causes the one or more default actions to be performed for the selected items i.e. on the information items that the data display items represent.

According to an embodiment if no default actions are identified action service sends information for applicable actions to multi selection client . In response multi selection client displays a mechanism for selecting one or more actions to perform.

Example GUI of depicts a window that displays actions that the user may perform for selected data display items and . In GUI the user has selected add to resume and print as the actions to perform for co selected items and . According to another embodiment action options are presented to a user in a format that allows the user to select one or more actions using point or swipe style interactions as described herein.

The user further has the option of setting selected actions as default actions for the session or as persistent default actions to persist across sessions. A particular session ends when one or more of the following occur a user logs out of multi selection client the GUI through which the user has selected items is unloaded all GUIs related to the GUI through which the user has selected items are unloaded etc.

Action service causes the selected one or more actions to be performed for the targeted information items. In the example of GUI the user has selected the action print for items and . As such action service prepares print data with information from the grades type information items associated with the requesting user from courses A and B as indicated by selection of items and by the particular user .

In the example of GUI the user has selected the action add to resume for items and . As such action service adds information to a resume object for the user. This resume object includes information that the user wishes to include in the user s resume which can be automatically formatted for printing from information in the resume object. By including the grades information from courses A and B into the user s resume object resume print data or document data formatted from the resume object would include information about one or more grades that the user attained in course A and course B.

One action that may be applied to co selected data display items is entering the corresponding information items into a queue. Action service may order selected information items based on an order in which the information items were selected by the user. For example a user may co select the data display items using a swipe style interaction and action service enters the items in the queue based on the order in which the user swiped over the items. As a further example a user may co select the data display items using concurrent point style interactions with different starting times. In this example action service includes the items in the queue based on the starting times of the point style interactions that selected the items respectively.

As yet a further example action service includes co selected data display items in a queue in an order dictated by metadata of the corresponding information items. To illustrate information items to be entered into a queue are learning objects at least some of which have prerequisite learning objects or skills. The user will attempt completion of the selected learning objects based on the order that the objects are in the queue. As such action service puts the selected learning objects into the queue such that a first learning object that is a prerequisite for a second co selected learning object is included in the queue before the second learning object. This method of ordering selected information items overrides the order in which a user selected the learning object items.

According to yet another embodiment action service determines that the user has not completed a learning object that is a prerequisite for a selected learning object in the queue where the prerequisite learning object is not selected to be entered into the queue . In response to determining that the user has not completed the prerequisite learning object action service automatically includes the prerequisite learning object into the queue before the selected learning object. According to embodiments action service automatically informs the user of the unfinished prerequisite.

Many times a user of a GUI that displays multiple items is interested in selecting multiple items from the display e.g. to form a command from the selected items to have one or more actions performed on the selected items etc. depicts a flowchart for selecting multiple items via multiple concurrent point style interactions with a graphical user interface.

At step of flowchart a computing device displays a plurality of items in a graphical user interface. For example multi selection client receives information for GUI of from GUI configuration service . Multi selection client causes client to display GUI which displays a plurality of items .

At step the computing device detects two or more concurrent point style interactions each of which targets a respective targeted item of the plurality of items displayed in the graphical user interface wherein at least two of the two or more concurrent point style interactions target at least two discontiguous items of the targeted items. For example multi selection client running on client device detects three concurrent point style interactions points depicted in GUI of . Concurrent interactions are interactions whose durations between start and stop times overlap.

Point targets syllabus item point targets recent activity item and point targets grades item . Syllabus item and recent activity item are laterally contiguous because they are displayed next to each other in GUI . Syllabus item is discontiguous from grades item because there is at least one item between syllabus item and grades item i.e. instructor announcement item .

According to an embodiment recent activity item and roster item are diagonally contiguous because they are displayed directly diagonally from each other in GUI . According to another embodiment recent activity item and roster item are considered discontiguous because they are not laterally contiguous.

Returning to flowchart at step in response to detecting the two or more concurrent point style interactions the targeted items are simultaneously selected. For example in response to detecting concurrent point style interactions multi selection client determines that the user has simultaneously selected or co selected syllabus item recent activity item and grades item .

At step while the targeted items are selected one or more actions are performed based at least in part on the targeted items being selected. For example multi selection client sends information identifying the multiple co selected items e.g. items and to action service at server device . Action service identifies one or more actions to be performed based on the identified items.

According to embodiments action service identifies the one or more actions based on any technique described herein. For example according to an embodiment action service identifies at least one of the one or more actions based at least in part on selection criteria associated with at least one of the co selected items as described above. According to another embodiment action service identifies at least one of the one or more actions from other mapping data that maps combinations of selected items to one or more actions as described in further detail below.

Multi selection functionality with point style interactions is limited by the natural limitations of the human body. For example using one or two hands a user will not be able to select more items than the user has fingers. Furthermore some combinations of displayed items may be awkward to select using only one or two hands because of how fingers naturally move.

Thus according to an embodiment when multi selection client detects two or more concurrent point style interactions that qualify as a limited touch scenario according to one or more limited touch scenario rules multi selection client automatically identifies one or more additional displayed items to visually highlight in the GUI based at least in part on the items targeted by the detected two or more concurrent point style interactions. Identification and highlighting of additional items is described in further detail below.

The user may select any of the highlighted items to include in the set of currently co selected items. In response to detecting selection of one or more highlighted items multi selection client automatically co selects the selected highlighted item s with the items that are currently selected. According to an embodiment multi selection client only allows the user to select one or more of the highlighted items to include in the set of targeted items e.g. by deactivating graphical user interface controls associated with those items of the plurality of displayed items that are not highlighted items.

One or more limited touch scenario rules identify one or more patterns of concurrent point style interactions that indicate a possibility that the user could not concurrently select all desired items in the GUI with point style interactions. For example limited touch scenario rules identify the following features or combinations of features of limited touch scenarios 

According to embodiments action service identifies one or more actions to perform from mapping data that maps combinations of items to one or more actions. depicts a flowchart for identifying a particular action mapped to a combination of items that are co selected in a GUI. At step of flowchart a computing device displays a plurality of items in a graphical user interface. For example multi selection client causes client device to display GUI of . GUI displays a plurality of selection criteria items as described above.

At step a plurality of mappings is stored wherein each mapping of the plurality of mappings maps a distinct combination of items from the plurality of items to a corresponding action. For example action service stores in database a plurality of mappings that maps one or more distinct combinations of selection criteria items to actions that may be performed over information items . In the plurality of mappings each mapping maps a distinct combination of selection criteria items from the plurality of items to a corresponding action.

Mappings of selection criteria items allows a user to personalize actions performed based on selection criteria items. To illustrate action service stores in database a first mapping that maps item combination to the action display syllabus drafts created since the start of the most recent semester for classes that the requesting user teaches . Action service provides the user with a mechanism for including mappings between combinations of selection criteria items and actions that are not included in the database. Such mapping data may be used just for the particular user that created the mappings or may also be used for users similar to the creating user. Through this mechanism a user adds mapping data to database that maps item combination to the action email to the requesting user s email address syllabus drafts that are a created since the start of the most recent semester and b for classes that the requesting user teaches .

As a further example action service stores in database a plurality of mappings that map one or more distinct combinations of data display items depicted in GUI of to actions that may be performed over information items of information items that correspond to the data display items. In the plurality of mappings each mapping maps a distinct combination of the data display items from the plurality of items to a corresponding action. For example action service stores in database a mapping that maps item combination and to the action print .

According to an embodiment action service identifies and stores mappings that are based on historical usage information as described in further detail below. For example a user selects particular actions to be performed for the items that the user has co selected i.e. items and according to the example of GUI as described above. In response to receiving the user selection of the particular actions via window action service stores mapping data that maps the actions add to resume and print to the combination of items and . According to embodiments action service stores such mapping data in response to the user indicating that the actions are the default actions for the co selected items.

Action service records information identifying the user that associated the actions to the combination of items. According to an embodiment action service only uses such a mapping for the user that created the mapping. According to an embodiment action service uses such a mapping to inform suggestions of actions to perform for the combination of items or for combinations of items that are similar to the mapped combination of items.

Combinations of items may be considered similar when the combinations of items include items of the same type created at or near the same time etc. Furthermore combinations of items may be considered similar based on information from a user e.g. indicating that particular combinations of items are similar information from an administrator historical usage data etc.

At step the computing device detects an interaction with the graphical user interface that co selects two or more items of the plurality of items. For example multi selection client detects that a user has co selected items and displayed in GUI of by swiping over portions of the GUI that depict those items via swipe .

Selected items may be visually indicated e.g. by a color of the items as depicted in GUI . No other items are selected i.e. items and remain unselected by swipe because no other items were intersected by the swipe.

At step in response to detecting the interaction the following steps are performed based on the plurality of mappings identifying a particular action that is mapped to a combination of the two or more items and performing the particular action. For example in response to detecting swipe multi selection client sends information indicating which items were selected by the swipe to action service i.e. items and . Action service identifies one or more actions that are mapped to a combination of items and and causes at least one of the mapped actions to be performed.

To illustrate action service identifies a particular mapping in database that maps the combination of items and to a query over information items that returns information for recently drafted private messages authored by the user making the request. Action service causes this query to be run over information items and receives the results of the query.

According to an embodiment if no other action is mapped to the combination of items then action service causes GUI configuration service to send multi selection client a GUI where the GUI displays items that represent the results of the query. The results of the query may be grouped as described above and the items displayed in the GUI represent the groups of information items from the query result. According to embodiments if another action is mapped to the combination of items and within the mapping data then action service causes that action to be performed instead of or in addition to displaying data display items that correspond to the query results.

According to an embodiment if action service identifies multiple actions that are mapped to the identified combination of items then action service performs all of the actions mapped to the combination of items and returns query results to multi selection client for display as described above.

According to an embodiment if action service identifies multiple actions that are mapped to the identified combination of items then action service determines whether there are one or more default actions among the mapped actions for the combination of items. In response to identifying one or more default actions action service performs the one or more default actions and does not perform actions of the mapped actions that are not marked as default. According to an embodiment display of query results is an implied default action for every combination of items that is mapped to performance of a query.

According to an embodiment if action service identifies multiple actions that are mapped to the identified combination of items then action service causes multi selection client to display one or more action items that either individually or in one or more combinations represent the multiple actions mapped to the user s selected combination of items. A user may then select one or more of the presented actions to perform.

In response to determining that no default action is set for an identified combination of items action service sends information to multi selection client identifying the multiple mapped actions. Multi selection client displays the information identifying the multiple mapped actions via a GUI such as GUI and provides a mechanism for the user to select one or more actions to perform. Multi selection client also provides the user a mechanism by which the user identifies one or more default actions from among the multiple actions mapped to the identified combination of items. Multi selection client receives information from the user via the GUI selecting one or more actions from among the multiple actions mapped to the identified combination of items. In response to receiving this selection information multi selection client sends information identifying the selected one or more actions to action service which causes the identified actions to be performed.

Action service may cause processing of information items to be performed for actions that are mapped to a selected combination of items while multi selection client is waiting for the user to select a particular action e.g. as depicted in GUI of .

According to yet another embodiment action service determines that the combination of items that the user has selected is mapped to the action of displaying a further set of items for the user to select. In other words the combination of selected items is mapped to further options. In this embodiment multi selection client displays a GUI with action items that represent the further options for the user to select from.

According to embodiments a user may override a default action which causes action service to display a list of possible actions to the user. For example a GUI may include a control that when activated overrides any default action and displays possible actions for items that are currently co selected in the GUI. As another example a GUI may include a check box that indicates whether the user wishes the system to perform default actions or not. As yet another example a user may press and hold the last item of a set of co selected items which overrides any default action. When multi selection client determines that the user has pressed on a particular item for greater than an established threshold amount of time multi selection client displays a list of actions that may be performed on the currently co selected items rather than automatically performing any default action. Multi selection client may cause one or more default actions to be marked within a displayed list of actions.

According to embodiments action service waits to perform one or more actions based on selected items until multi selection client detects completion of a user s interaction with a displayed GUI. In one embodiment multi selection client detects completion of an interaction such as swipe style interaction of GUI or concurrent point style interactions and of GUI by detecting termination of one or more interaction events that enact the swipes or points such as when the user ends a touch interaction event that enacts swipe i.e. at end point via a touch screen etc. However the fact that a user has terminated a particular interaction event does not always indicate that the user has completed interacting with a displayed GUI or in other words that the user has selected all items that the user wants to select.

According to an embodiment multi selection client allows a user to select all desired items regardless of a number of interaction events or duration between interaction events that interact with the GUI. Once all desired items are selected multi selection client allows the user to indicate that all desired items are selected via a control in a GUI. For example GUI of includes a go button . In the example of GUI a user swipes over items and via swipe and performs another swipe to select items and . After selecting all desired items i.e. items and using swipes and the user activates go button . The user may activate go button using an interaction event that enacts one of swipes or not depicted in GUI or using an interaction event that is distinct from the interaction events that enact swipes and .

In response to detecting activation of go button multi selection client determines that the user has completed the user interaction with GUI . In this embodiment the user may use any combination of swipes and point style interactions to select items. All items that are selected when go button is activated are treated by multi selection client as co selected.

According to another embodiment a GUI such as GUI includes a control not shown that the user activates to indicate to multi selection client that all of the items selected while the control is activated should be co selected. Thus multi selection client processes as co selected all items that are selected when the user either a activates the control a second time or b activates a go button such as go button .

According to another embodiment multi selection client detects completion of a user s interaction with a GUI when a predetermined amount of time lapses after the termination of an interaction event with the GUI. In this embodiment a user may initiate an interaction with a GUI with an interaction event and then continue to add selected items to the set of selected items by starting a new swipe or point style interaction within a pre defined amount of time after stopping the previous interaction event. A user or administrator may set such a pre defined amount of time called herein a grace period to be e.g. one second.

Multi selection client detects swipe . Because of the grace period of one second if the user starts swipe within one second of ending swipe then all of the items swiped over by swipe are considered to be co selected with the items swiped over by swipe . However if the user starts swipe after the one second grace period has tolled then multi selection client considers swipe completed prior to the user initiating the interaction event that enacts swipe and the items swiped over by swipe are not co selected with the items swiped over by swipe .

A point style interaction may also be used to add items to the set of targeted items when the point style interaction is performed before the grace period tolls after terminating the previous interaction event. Likewise a point style interaction may trigger initiation of a grace period within which a user may add further items to the set of selected items. As a further example multi selection client detects swipe in GUI . If point style interaction point is detected within one second of the user ending swipe based on the grace period of one second then the item targeted by point is considered co selected with the items swiped over by swipe . Then if the user initiates swipe within one second of the user performing point then because of the grace period of one second the items swiped over by swipe are considered co selected with the items swiped over by swipe and with the item targeted by point .

According to embodiments a user may activate a control such as go button to indicate to multi selection client that the user is finished interacting with a GUI. In the context of embodiments enacting a grace period when multi selection client detects activation of such a control multi selection client detects completion of the user s interaction with the current GUI without waiting for any remaining grace period to toll.

According to another embodiment a GUI includes a mechanism by which the user may include additional items to a current selection. In response to detecting activation of such a mechanism multi selection client visually highlights the items that are currently co selected and allows the user to select additional items to be included in the current selection. When multi selection client detects that the user has completed the user s interaction with the GUI according to any embodiment described above multi selection client processes the additionally selected items with the previously selected items as co selected items.

According to embodiments instrumentation service of server device stores historical usage data comprising instrumentation items in database . Specifically multi selection client records user interactions with GUIs presented by multi selection client in instrumentation items and sends the instrumentation items to instrumentation service for processing and storage to instrumentation items in database .

Instrumentation items indicate ways that users interact with GUIs. According to embodiments an instrumentation item includes one or more of a user identifier one or more attributes of a user item identifiers for items that the user has co selected how a user maps particular combinations of items to actions recommendations from multi selection client that the user has ignored or implemented types of interactions by which the user co selects items timestamps of user interactions with GUIs GUIs that the user has interacted with configurations of GUIs that the user has interacted with etc.

The services of server device can utilize the information in instrumentation items to customize GUI configurations for the user i.e. to place items displayed in a GUI in configurations that are conducive to how the user interacts with the GUI or to how users similar to a particular user interact with the GUI to set mappings between combinations of items and actions or to suggest such mappings to a user to identify combinations of items to highlight in a GUI as described in further detail below to identify limited touch scenarios etc.

For example in response to a user selecting one or more actions to perform for a particular combination of items in a particular GUI multi selection client creates and sends one or more instrumentation items to instrumentation service where the instrumentation items indicate the combination of selected items the one or more actions selected for the combination of items the set of actions that multi selection client presented to the user to selection the one or more actions from an identifier of the user etc. Instrumentation service records in instrumentation items at database the instrumentation items.

According to embodiments instrumentation service also includes one or more aspects of the instrumentation items in a portion of database dedicated to a summary of historical usage data. Such a summary may be used by the services of server device to quickly customize GUIs recommendations etc. to particular users.

According to embodiments GUI configuration service uses information about how users interact with graphical user interfaces i.e. as recorded in instrumentation items and or other historical usage data to inform how the graphical user interfaces are configured. As such GUI configuration service can dynamically configure graphical user interfaces that allow users to more easily select multiple items and formulate complex commands via selection of the multiple items based on how users have previously interacted with the GUIs. Using historical usage information to arrange items in a GUI allows GUI configuration service to automatically produce GUIs that are optimized for particular user s use without requiring human hours to analyze usage of the GUI and arrange the GUI items.

The information for GUI is configuration information that organizes a plurality of items displayed in GUI in a first arrangement depicted in where the plurality of items includes items . In the arrangement of GUI each of items are contiguous to at least one of the others of items . Further in the arrangement depicted in GUI item is discontiguous to all of items .

At step usage information indicating that a user co selected both the first item and the second item is received. For example multi selection client detects that a user co selects item i.e. via point style interaction and items and i.e. via swipe such that items are selected concurrently. Multi selection client creates an instrumentation item that indicates that the user co selected items and sends the instrumentation item for processing and or storage to instrumentation service .

According to an embodiment steps and of flowchart are performed after receiving the usage information of step .

At step it is determined based at least in part on the usage information that a second arrangement should be used for the plurality of items in the graphical user interface wherein according to the second arrangement the first item is displayed contiguous to the second item. For example upon receiving the instrumentation item that indicates that the user co selected items instrumentation service identifies a trend of at least one instance of items being a common combination of items. According to an embodiment instrumentation service records the trend information in a summary of historical usage in database .

From instrumentation items which includes the above mentioned instrumentation item and or from the summary of historical usage in database GUI configuration service determines that item should be displayed contiguous to at least one of items i.e. in a second arrangement . GUI configuration service may make this determination in response to receiving notification of the new instrumentation item in response to receiving a new request for GUI etc.

Furthermore such a determination may be further based on multiple instrumentation items and or other historical usage data e.g. recording other instances of the same user co selecting items and one or more of items recording instances where other users have co selected items and one or more of items etc. According to embodiments GUI configuration service uses historical usage data that meets certain criteria to perform an evaluation of how to configure graphical user interfaces. For example to configure a GUI for a particular user GUI configuration service uses historical usage data that meets one or more of the following criteria 

According to an embodiment GUI configuration service configures a GUI that is delivered to a particular user based on historical usage information from users that are similar to the particular user. As such instrumentation service identifies similar users e.g. when instrumentation service performs analysis on instrumentation items that instrumentation service includes in a historical usage summary.

For example to identify similar users instrumentation service compares attributes of users from user profiles. User profiles include one or more attributes of an associated user e.g. vital information name birthdate address organizations associated with the user current scholastic major classes currently being taken projects that the user is currently assigned to etc. history of the user courses that the user has completed GUIs that the user has accessed etc. transient attributes of a user the user s current status Global Positioning System GPS location mood etc. etc. Instrumentation service may determine that two users are similar based on similarities between attributes of the two users profiles.

According to embodiments particular profile attributes that are similar or particular combinations of similar profile attributes among users is sufficient to identify the users as similar. For example instrumentation service determines that two users are similar because the profiles of the two users indicate that the users are associated with similar organizations e.g. the users are enrolled in the same scholastic major or course of study the users have the same employer the users are enrolled in scholastic majors that are known to be similar e.g. where both majors are included in a list of similar majors etc.

As another example instrumentation service determines that two users are similar because the profiles of the two users indicate that the users have both accessed information on the same subject matter. Information about subject matter that users have accessed may come from user profiles browser history etc. Users that have accessed one or more similar topics may have similar interests and also have similar needs with respect to graphical user interfaces.

As a further example instrumentation service determines that two users are similar because of a combination of similar profile attributes of the users. For example instrumentation service determines that two users are similar because the profiles of the two users indicate that the users have both accessed information on the same subject matter and also that the users are the same age.

As yet another example instrumentation service determines that two users are similar because the users have indicated that they like similar news articles or other media or social content. Such content may be determined similar based on keywords titles categories etc. Furthermore instrumentation service may determine that particular users are similar based at least in part on the users posting messages in one or more of the same discussion threads.

Furthermore instrumentation service determines that users are similar based on language that the users put into messages articles social content and or papers that the users author. For example instrumentation service determines that particular users are similar based on the users usage of similar slang language in authored content.

Returning to flowchart at step second configuration information that defines the second configuration of the graphical user interface is sent to a target client wherein in the second configuration the graphical user interface displays the plurality of items in a second arrangement. Continuing with the example of GUI GUI configuration service sends information for a second configuration of the plurality of items displayed in GUI to a target client. The second configuration defines a configuration of the items displayed in GUI that arranges item contiguous to at least one of items based on the determination of GUI configuration service that item should be displayed contiguous to at least one of items .

To illustrate a second configuration of items displayed in GUI GUI of depicts the plurality of items from GUI where the plurality of items are arranged such that item is laterally contingent to item and diagonally contingent to item . The arrangement of GUI allows the user to more easily co select items i.e. in a single swipe because of items are contiguous in GUI .

At times historical usage data indicates that the items displayed in a GUI should be adjusted such as consolidating the display of items in a GUI. For example according to an embodiment GUI configuration service determines based on historical usage information that a particular user or group of similar users co selects two or more particular items from a particular GUI every time the one or more users select the two or more particular items. Such information indicates that each of the two or more particular items do not have functionality independent from the other items of the two or more particular items for those users. In response to making such a determination GUI configuration service generates an arrangement for the particular GUI in which the two or more particular items are represented by a single item which is referred to herein as a joint item.

For example based on usage information from GUI GUI configuration service determines that items and do not have functionality independent from each other for at least a particular user. As such GUI configuration service generates an arrangement for the plurality of items in GUI as depicted in GUI of in which items and are represented by a joint item . According to an embodiment items and are not represented independently in GUI i.e. with individual item representations when the items are represented by joint item . According to another embodiment items and are also represented independently in GUI in addition to the representation of joint item .

At times historical usage data indicates that an item that is normally displayed in response to selection of a particular item in a GUI should be displayed on a higher level GUI. To illustrate GUI configuration service displays a particular item in a particular GUI context e.g. a particular GUI such as a dashboard GUI . When users select the particular item GUI configuration service then causes a set of three sub items to be displayed based on the user s selection of the particular item. GUI configuration service determines from historical usage data that when a particular group of similar users or a particular user selects the particular item to gain access to the three sub items users in the particular group of similar users or the particular user only select a particular sub item of the three sub items. In response to this determination GUI configuration service replaces the particular item in the original GUI context with the particular sub item when the GUI is presented to the particular user or group of users. Such an adjustment streamlines the users access to the particular popular sub item.

In an embodiment the target client of step is client device from which the usage information was received in step . In this embodiment historical usage information from a particular user is used to configure GUIs for the particular user. According to a further embodiment historical usage information from users other than the particular user is not used to arrange GUIs for the particular user.

According to another embodiment in which information from particular users is used to configure GUIs for other similar users the target client is client device which is distinct from the device that sent the usage information in step . In this embodiment instrumentation service has determined that the user of client device is similar to the user of client device .

According to embodiments historical usage information is also used to identify common combinations of selected items. In embodiments multi selection client highlights in a GUI items that are commonly co selected i.e. common combinations of items as an aid to users of the GUI.

When interacting with a multi selectable GUI a user may require some guidance about items that are useful when co selected. According to an embodiment multi selection client provides such guidance by highlighting commonly co selected items in a GUI in response to the user activating a GUI control such as a help button. To illustrate GUI of depicts a help button . In response to detecting activation of help button multi selection client sends information about the request to GUI configuration service which requests information about commonly co selected items in GUI from instrumentation service .

Instrumentation service identifies three sets of commonly co selected items from GUI and returns information indicating the identified sets of commonly co selected items to multi selection client i.e. via GUI configuration service . Multi selection client highlights in GUI each set of commonly co selected items i.e. the set of items that swipe path intersects the set of items that swipe path intersects and the set of items that swipe path intersects. As depicted in GUI each set of commonly co selected items is highlighted with a distinct visual highlight which may be patterns or colors of the items distinct arrows showing potential swipe paths to select the items which may also have distinct features from other arrows in the display etc.

According to an embodiment the items in GUI are action items and multi selection client provides information regarding functions that the visually highlighted sets of items perform e.g. by default. Such information may be displayed in response to detecting activation of help button i.e. in connection with displaying the visual highlights of the sets of commonly co selected items when the user rolls over one of the highlighted items activates or rolls over a control such as one of more info buttons that are included in the embodiment illustrated by GUI etc.

Multi selection client may also provide to a user suggestions regarding items that are commonly co selected with items that a user is currently selecting or has selected. According to an embodiment GUI configuration service detects that the user has selected one or more particular items in a GUI using any kind of interaction event described herein e.g. swipe style interactions point style interactions etc. . In response to detecting selection of the one or more particular items GUI configuration service identifies one or more sets of items displayed in the GUI that users similar to the user of the GUI co select where the one or more sets of items each include all of the one or more items that the user has selected.

To illustrate multi selection client detects that a particular user performs swipe in GUI of where swipe selects items and displayed in GUI . Multi selection client sends information to GUI configuration service indicating that the user has co selected items and . GUI configuration service causes instrumentation service to search database for historical usage data indicating items that have been previously co selected with items and which usage data was recorded for users that are similar to the particular user and or for the particular user .

GUI configuration service may determine that all of the identified combinations are common or may determine that only those combinations that satisfy certain criteria are common. The certain criteria may be one or more of the items have been co selected a certain number of times the items have been co selected within a certain amount of time before the present search suggestions to users suggesting selection of the combination of items have been indicated as helpful or have been used at least a certain number of times etc.

In the example of GUI GUI configuration service determines that the following combinations of items that include both and were commonly co selected 

GUI configuration service causes multi selection client to visually highlight the commonly co selected combinations of items prior to detecting completion of the user s interaction with GUI . The different paths created by each combination of items respectively are highlighted with distinct visual highlights so that the user can visually identify which items are commonly co selected.

To illustrate in GUI of multi selection client has highlighted item with a distinct visual highlight from items and etc. According to an embodiment because item is included in multiple sets of commonly co selected items multi selection client assigns it a visual highlight from a particular set of co selected items in which item is included. As such item is assigned a different visual highlight than item even though the two items are also included in at least one set of commonly co selected items together. According to the embodiment of GUI illustrations of suggested swipe paths and may be used to help the user further visually identify suggestions of items to co select with the currently selected items and .

According to an embodiment multi selection client modifies the visual highlights when the user co selects a new item with the previously selected items. To illustrate in the context of GUI the user further selects item with items and as depicted in GUI of i.e. by continuing to swipe via the path of swipe . In response to detecting co selection of item with items and multi selection client causes visual highlights to be displayed only for those items that are in sets of commonly co selected items with all of items and . In the example of GUI GUI configuration service identifies the following sets of items as commonly co selected which include the currently selected items and and and . GUI configuration service sends this information to multi selection client . Multi selection client causes items and to be visually highlighted with distinct highlights respectively since those two items are the items in the sets of commonly co selected items that are not yet selected. In the embodiment of GUI multi selection client also displays suggested swipe paths and .

According to an embodiment multi selection client visually highlights commonly co selected combinations of items while the user is selecting items e.g. while the user is performing an interaction event. For example multi selection client highlights the paths as shown in GUI of while the user swipes over item .

According to an embodiment multi selection client visually highlights commonly co selected combinations of items after the user has finished selecting items e.g. once the user has terminated an interaction event. For example multi selection client highlights the paths as shown in GUI of once the user has completed swipe .

According to an embodiment multi selection client uses historical usage data from similar users to provide recommendations and GUI configurations for a particular user where there is insufficient usage data from the particular user on which to base such recommendations and GUI configurations. As the particular user uses the system and more usage data is gathered for the particular user multi selection client uses information from the particular user to generate item highlights i.e. item suggestions and GUI configurations etc. for the particular user.

According to an embodiment multi selection client deactivates items in a GUI that are not included in combinations of items mapped to actions with the items that the user has currently selected. In other words multi selection client prevents the user from selecting combinations of items that do not have actions mapped thereto.

According to an embodiment action service starts processing data e.g. in information items to respond to a user request for one or more actions based on one or more items selected by the user before multi selection client has determined that the user has completed the user s interaction with the GUI.

According to embodiments before the user has completed item selection action service identifies a combination of items that the user is likely targeting based on items that the user has currently selected. Action service identifies one or more actions mapped to the identified combination of items and initiates processing of information items according to the one or more mapped actions without regard to whether the user has completed the user s interaction with the GUI. If when the user completes the interaction action service has anticipated the correct combination of items then action service does not halt the processing of information items and completes the one or more actions.

If when the user completes the interaction with the GUI action service has not anticipated the correct combination of items then action service determines whether one or more of the actions being performed on the underlying data set as an anticipated response to the user s interaction are mapped to or are useful for actions mapped to the combination that the user has selected. If so action service does not halt processing of the underlying data set for those actions that are mapped to or useful for processing the selected combination of items. Action service further causes any unperformed default actions to be performed on the underlying data set.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

