---

title: Interactive sale generation and purchase coordination digital media
abstract: A computer implemented method and a sales management system (SMS) for generating sales through interactive digital content (IDC) integrate multiple electronic commerce service providers (ECSPs) for facilitating purchase of multiple sale items from within digital media. The SMS preferably inserts an indicator element at a predefined location within the IDC in the digital media that, when activated, invokes a display of multiple sale item indicators. When a sale item indicator is activated, the SMS retrieves sale item information associated with the sale item, and selects an ECSP for completing the purchase of the sale item. The SMS displays a dynamic interactive display element (DIDE) linked to the activated sale item indicator. The DIDE displays sale item information and provides direct purchasing options. The SMS renders a content display interface associated with the selected ECSP based on a selection of one of the purchasing options for initiating purchase of the sale item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336550&OS=09336550&RS=09336550
owner: CS FRONTIER, LLC
number: 09336550
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140924
---
The invention relates to a computer method and system for generating purchases of sales items and more particularly to a method and sales management system which generates sales through interactive digital content on a consumer device.

Computers and consumer devices have become increasingly more advanced allowing consumers to do more things in more places and in less time. Consumers have regularly used various consumer devices to purchase sale items on the internet and engage in electronic commerce e commerce . In a conventional online shopping environment a consumer would see an advertisement for a sale item for example through one web site navigate or be redirected to another website offering the sale item such as a vendor web site having various items for sale find the sale item on that website or be directed to a particular web page relating to the sale item of interest add the sale item to a shopping cart confirm shipping and billing details and then purchase the sale item through the vendor web site. This type of purchasing process requires substantial time and interaction on the part of the consumer and as a result has a high abandonment rate. As the current advertising methods are inefficient a relatively small percentage of digital advertisements lead to consumer purchases. Further vendors or retailers should remain challenged to generate sales growth in a weak economic environment. In their quest for sales growth among other things vendors must reassess the effectiveness of their various marketing strategies.

Product placement has played a key role in advertising for decades. For example moving images such as a television show or a movie can potentially contain dynamic advertisements. Similarly mediums such as digital newspapers and digital magazines are utilized for providing advertisements. For example a digital article in an architectural magazine may show a photograph illustrating the design of a room in connection with an article about the building in which the room exists. It may not be common for such an article to include the particulars of all the sale items shown in the photograph since the article is about the building. Certain sale items in the photograph may be labeled and can be easily referenced and found by the consumer for example through search engines or through vendor information shown in the graphics of the article which helps the shopper browse a vendor web site and research a sales item. However there are hundreds of sale items advertised in digital media that do not have labels visually associated with them which make it difficult or even impossible for the average consumer to find out who made these sale items or how to purchase them.

A study by Adobe Digital Index ADI of Adobe Systems Incorporated has shown that static advertising is not overly effective in generating sales whereas interactive digital advertising is substantially more effective. Interactive digital advertising allows interaction between a prospective consumer and the digital device on which the digital advertising is displayed. Some websites that offer sale items have attempted to streamline the online shopping process by providing dynamic advertisements linking the sale items contained therein to third party websites where the sale items can be researched and purchased. Such linking can be achieved via individual hyperlinks for each sale item or product in the dynamic advertisement. For example consider an image displayed in a digital newspaper comprising multiple purchasable sale items linked to individual sites where each sale item can be purchased from. A consumer may be able to mouse over an image of a specific sale item that he she is interested in and be directly linked to that particular sale item by clicking on the image of the sale item. Multiple hyperlinks can be provided which allow the shopper to redirect to multiple web pages or web sites. Each sales item might need to be researched one at a time. An editorial picture in an article can thus be dynamically transformed into an advertisement that provides multiple purchasable goods. This can therefore allow almost any photograph to be turned into an advertisement and allow the photograph to convey whatever original meaning was intended.

However a hyperlink causes the consumer to leave the primary digital media they are viewing such as a web site on their digital device to visit the vendor s secondary or remote website through which details on the item can be viewed and the purchase can be made. If the digital media is being viewed in a separate application for example a news reader clicking on the hyperlink requires launching and switching to a browser which can take considerable time resources and patience on the part of the consumer. Ultimately the consumer may have to open multiple applications or web sites to view the primary digital media and shop for the various sales items and when completed then the consumer must find and return to the original digital media application to continue their activities. Therefore such an option takes or redirects the consumer away from the original digital media they are viewing which can deter the consumer from making the purchase or can pull the consumer away from the digital media and the associated advertisements and reduce the possibility of additional purchases. Hence there is a need to improve the display of sale item information on a consumer device and improve the initiation of a transaction for the sale item without detracting from the original digital media.

Hence there is a long felt but unresolved need for a computer implemented method and a sales management system that improve the display of interactive digital content within digital media on a consumer device promote shopping and transactions for sale items without detracting from the digital media and generate sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further disclosed in the detailed description of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential inventive concepts of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Generally the invention relates to an improved method and sales management system that promotes the marketing and sale of items directly through a consumer s digital device. With the present invention the consumer can use their digital device for normal activities that do not necessarily involve shopping for sales items but the digital media may display various sales items within the digital media. For example a digital article or advertising may include graphics such as photos or text that include or reference a variety of items that are available for sale. In this regard an advertisement or article might include a picture of a model using or wearing a variety of different items from different vendors wherein a number of these items are available for purchase. To minimize distracting the consumer from the original activity while still promoting and marketing the sales item each sales item preferably is displayed with a sales indicator that is not obtrusive but can be activated by the consumer to prominently display additional information about the sales item. It will be understood that all items do not need a respective sales item associated therewith. Instead a single sales item might be associated with the digital media such as a single sales item indicator located close to a collection or group of sales items displayed in the digital media Essentially the sales item indicator functions to draw the consumer s interest to the point that the consumer decides to activate the sales item indicator view detailed information on the sales item and ultimately purchase the sales item. Preferably the system includes a primary indicator element to toggle the individual sales item indicator s on or off although the invention also may display the sales item indicator s continuously. The sales item indicators serve as non obtrusive prompts that indicate to the consumer that the particular item being displayed is available for sale and if their interest is piqued the consumer can quickly and directly display information on the sales item while still being able to quickly and conveniently return to their original activity once their interest wanes or more preferably once a purchase is completed. This system and the additional features disclosed herein represent an improved method and system for promoting and marketing sales items.

More particularly the computer implemented method and sales management system disclosed herein address the above stated needs for improving the display of interactive digital content within digital media on a consumer device by providing several features so that a consumer can readily identify sales items and if interested easily research multiple sales items while remaining within the display area of the digital device. By consolidating the shopping experience within the digital media display area the invention is more likely to initiate transactions for sale items without detracting from the digital media and generate sales through use of the interactive digital content directly within the original digital media being reviewed. The computer implemented method disclosed herein employs the sales management system of the present invention which system comprises at least one processor configured to execute computer program instructions to improve the format and function of the digital media being used by a potential purchaser. The digital media is significantly improved for generating sales through the interactive digital content contained within digital media on the consumer device. The sales management system displays the digital media comprising the interactive digital content on the consumer device via a graphical user interface GUI used with the sales management system.

The computer implemented method disclosed herein dynamically integrates one or more electronic commerce service providers who offer various sale items to a consumer for purchase from a variety of vendors. Ultimately the sales management system facilitates the viewing of multiple sale items directly from within the digital media without redirecting the consumer to separate web pages or web sites operated by the electronic commerce service provider until the purchasing step when the decision to purchase has been made. The interactive digital content promotes sale items that are available for purchase from within the digital media displayed on the consumer device and the consumer may select any of these items for purchase from an electronic commerce service provider. Additionally each sale item may be mapped to one or more related sale items provided by the electronic commerce service provider to promote secondary purchases of related sales items.

To help identify the sales items contained within the digital media the sales management system preferably inserts an indicator element at a predefined location within the interactive digital content in the digital media. The indicator element is displayed on the consumer device and visible to the consumer who may selectively activate the indicator element to toggle on and display multiple sale item indicators associated with respective sale items viewable within the digital media. When the indicator element is activated the sales management system displays each of the sale item indicators positioned proximal or close to a respective one of the sale items wherein the sales items can be seen within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI. While a user may start by viewing an article or advertisement activation of the main indicator element then shows the user what visible articles are actually sales items available for purchase. When the various sales item indicators are toggled on or otherwise visible each sale item indicator is associated with one or more sale items to indicate and show what sales items are available for purchase from within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device. If the consumer is interested the consumer in turn may activate or select one of the sale item indicators associated with one or more of the sale items through interaction with the interactive digital content. Upon activation the sales management system retrieves sale item information associated with that sale item and selects one of the electronic commerce service providers which supplies the information necessary for completing the purchase of the sale item if the consumer decides to make such a purchase.

When the sale item indicator is activated by the consumer the sales management system displays a dynamic interactive display element linked to the activated sale item indicator wherein the interactive display element is displayed directly within the digital media on the consumer device. There is no linking or redirection to another web site to review this information and make a purchasing decision. Rather the dynamic interactive display element displays the retrieved sale item information and provides purchasing options for facilitating purchase of the sale item. The consumer can select one or more of the purchasing options. At this stage the sales management system renders a content display interface for example a web page of a website associated with the selected electronic commerce service provider although the content display interface is rendered within the dynamic interactive display element based on the selection of one or more of the purchasing options. The content display interface is provided for initiating purchase of the sale item from within the dynamic interactive display element and thereby generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer. Also various structural elements may be employed depending on design choices of the system designer.

For a general understanding of the present invention comprise exemplary screenshots showing the method and system of the present invention. In this regard the invention relates to an improved method and sales management system that promotes the marketing and sale of items directly through a consumer s digital device . shows the digital device with a graphical user interface GUI such as a display screen which illustrates digital media that can be displayed in many different forms as described in more detail herein. With the present invention a consumer can use their digital device for normal activities that do not necessarily involve shopping for sales items such as surfing web pages or reading digital articles blogs catalogs and the like. While using the digital device for these normal activities the digital media may display various sales items within the digital media . For example a digital article or advertising may include graphics such as photos that include a variety of items that are available for sale. The digital article may also include text that references sale items . shows a screenshot from a digital article that includes a picture of a model using or wearing a variety of different items which can be supplied from different vendors wherein the item is available for purchase. In this example the item is a helmet. To minimize distracting the consumer from the original activity while still promoting and marketing the sales item the sales item is displayed with a sales item indicator that is not obtrusive but can be activated by the consumer to display additional information about the sales item . Therefore the sales item indicator functions to catch the consumer s interest to the point that the consumer decides to activate the sales indicator view detailed information on the sales item and ultimately purchase the sales item . Preferably the system includes a primary indicator element to toggle the individual sales indicator s on or off although the invention also may display the sales indicator s continuously. Each sales indicator serves as a non obtrusive prompt that indicates or signals to the consumer that the particular item being displayed is available for sale and if their interest is piqued the consumer can quickly and directly display information on the sales item while still being able to quickly and conveniently return to their original activity in the digital media once their interest wanes or more preferably once a purchase is completed. This system and the additional features disclosed herein represent an improved method and system for promoting and marketing sales items.

In more detail illustrate exemplary screenshots of the GUI provided by the sales management system exemplarily illustrated in following for generating sales through interactive digital content within the digital media . exemplarily illustrates a screenshot of the GUI displaying digital media for example a digital magazine which includes a digital article on skiing. The digital media comprises interactive digital content which includes one or more sale items . For example shows a digital article showing a digital image of a skier wearing the sale item such as a helmet in this example. It will be understood that these exemplary screenshots could include a variety of different sales items such as the gloves ski poles skis boots etc. The sales management system disclosed herein enhances sales success of digital magazine advertisements by facilitating purchase of the sale item directly from within the digital magazine itself. The sales management system may display various sale items in a particular presentation of the interactive digital content which thereby provides vendors with an innovative vehicle to not only showcase a variety of primary sales items displayed in the specific digital media advertisements as seen in but also showcase additional related sale items as seen in which vendors believe are appropriate.

Referring to the sales management system preferably embeds the indicator element at any predefined location in the GUI to allow the consumer to toggle the sales items indicator s on and off. For example the indicator element is displayed as a P icon in the digital article which on activation by the consumer invokes the display of a respective sale item indicator positioned proximal to the helmet . If there are multiple sale items on display a respective number of sale item indicators preferably are displayed when the indicator element is activated. When a consumer clicks on the P icon with a mouse touchscreen touchpad or the like the system displays the sale item indicator next to the helmet which indicates to the consumer that the helmet is purchasable through the interactive digital content . While one sales item indicator is preferably associated with a single sales item a single sale item indicator also might be associated with a group or collection of sales items being displayed.

As illustrated in when the consumer clicks on a selected sale item indicator the system retrieves related sale items and sale item details associated with the sale item using a sale item identifier of the sale item the vendor identifier of the vendor who is selling the sale item and the vendor configuration settings configured by the vendor in accord with the disclosure herein. The system coordinates with any number of electronic commerce service providers who offer the various sales items for sale through the interactive digital content . As used herein electronic commerce service provider refers to an entity for example Amazon of Amazon Technologies Inc. eBay of eBay Inc. etc. that facilitates interactive electronic commerce transactions between buyers and sellers. Generally the system determines an electronic commerce service provider for example Amazon for completing the purchase of the sale item based on the retrieved vendor configuration settings the retrieved sale item identifier and the retrieved vendor identifier. The sales item detail will either be obtained from server based storage or from the electronic commerce service provider . The system further retrieves inventory information comprising for example the size and quantity values from the Amazon database.

More particularly as to the example seen in when the sales item indicator is clicked or otherwise activated a dynamic interactive digital element is displayed on the GUI . The dynamic interactive digital element for example preferably is displayed in the form of a dynamic lightbox that displays the retrieved sale item information. The dynamic lightbox lists the sale item information about the sale item for example the name of the sale item brief details about the sale item high resolution images of the sale item reviews quantity or number of units available and a size button to show available sizes. The dynamic lightbox provides a sale item details button a sale item review button a video button an add to cart button and a purchase button . The sale item details button when clicked or otherwise selected displays a pop up window showing a description about the sale item . The sale item review button when clicked displays a pop up window showing reviews written by other consumers who have purchased the sale item . The video button when clicked displays a pop up window showing a video of the sale item . The add to cart button when clicked adds the sale item to the shopping cart. The purchase button when clicked redirects to the determined electronic commerce service provider that is Amazon in the exemplary scenario. When the consumer clicks on the image of the sale item the system displays an enlarged image of the sale item . The size dropdown option includes the size button that displays a dropdown list of available sizes when clicked wherein the individual sizes can be selected to allow the consumer to select a particular size of the sale item that the consumer requires.

Also when the sales item indicator is activated the system not only displays the primary sales item such as the helmet but also shows related sales items which have some nexus or relationship to the sales item . The relationship could be determined by the system itself or preferably by agreement with the vendors. In the lightbox the lightbox includes related sales item boxes for all of the related sale items for example skiing boots goggles skis etc. which are displayed at the bottom of the dynamic lightbox as thumbnails within the related sales item boxes . The dynamic lightbox displays more related sale items when the consumer performs a left swipe motion or a right swipe motion in the related sale items section. When the consumer clicks on one of the related sale items displayed in the boxes in the related sale items section the system provides detailed information about the selected related sale item in lightbox .

If the consumer clicks on the add to cart button then the helmet is added to the shopping cart as seen in . All the other sale items that the consumer wants to purchase are also added to the shopping cart and displayed as selected sales items . A toolbar is included to provide shortcut links to frequently used controls for example a settings menu the shopping cart etc. When the consumer clicks on the shopping cart icon or shopping bag icon on the toolbar the shopping cart is displayed within the dynamic interactive digital element or dynamic lightbox showing all the sale items or related sales items that the consumer has added to the shopping cart as selected sales items as exemplarily illustrated in . If the consumer decides to proceed and purchase the helmet by clicking on the final purchase button the consumer is then routed to an electronic commerce service provider such as Amazon as exemplarily illustrated in .

Preferably as seen in the shopping cart displays the sale items in a table format comprising rows and columns. For example the shopping cart exemplarily illustrated in shows the 5computer code view comprising 3 items on vertical view and 3 items on horizontal view listed in each row wherein the consumer can scroll top and bottom or side to side if there are more selected items than would fit in the lightbox that is when there are many selected sale items in the shopping cart . The system allows the consumer to edit size and quantity of each selected sale item in the shopping cart and select one or more sale items for immediate purchase. As a default option all the selected sale items in the shopping cart will be selected that is the item checkbox next to the sale item is checked and the consumer can uncheck the checkbox to avoid purchasing that particular sale item from the shopping cart at the time of purchase. However the unchecked sales item can remain in the shopping cart which essentially serves as a wishlist of sales items . The consumer can change quantity and size before checkout. At least one size and one quantity of the sale item should be selected by the consumer. The system automatically updates the shopping cart based on the consumer selections of the sale items the quantity option and the size option. If the consumer wishes to delete a selected sales item from the shopping cart a delete button A is provided near each sales item which button A can be activated to delete the unwanted sales item from the shopping cart . The shopping cart provides an option to save the changes and close the shopping cart window by displaying an X icon in a corner of the shopping cart window within the dynamic lightbox . The shopping cart also provides a checkout button in the top corner of the window that allows the consumer to check out the selected sale items that have box checked and at this time redirects the consumer to the electronic commerce service provider such as the Amazon website as exemplarily illustrated in . The Amazon website is loaded in the dynamic lightbox within the digital magazine and the consumer can continue the purchase through the Amazon website or other electronic commerce service provider .

Accordingly with the present invention a consumer can use their digital device for normal activities that do not necessarily involve shopping for sales items such as surfing web pages or reading digital articles blogs catalogs and the like. While using the digital device for these normal activities the digital media may display the various sales items within the digital media and provide the indicator element to toggle on the individual sales item indicator s . If the consumer is interested in any particular sales items the consumer can quickly and readily research the sales items directly from the interactive digital content without being directed away from their primary activity on the digital device . The consumer can even reach the point of filling a shopping cart selecting quantity and size and clicking the checkout button before being redirected to the electronic commerce service provider to complete the final purchase. At any time the consumer may decide not to purchase any item and will be quickly returned to their primary activity on the digital device by closing out the interactive digital element such as the lightbox . By minimizing the diversion and complexity of the shopping and purchasing process the consumer may be more likely to complete quick and simple purchases and then return to their original activity such as reading an article in a digital magazine.

The following provides a more detailed discussion of the invention and how it implements the above described method and system features. illustrates the computer implemented method for generating sales through the interactive digital content provided within digital media . As used herein digital media refers to a form of electronic media comprising digitized content that can be transmitted over computer networks or the internet. The digital media comprises for example digital magazines digital articles digital newspapers digital videos digital images electronic books video games etc. Also as used herein interactive digital content refers to marketing communication data for example an advertisement in a digital format that is utilized by vendors to convey a message that encourages persuades or prompts consumers to perform an action for example purchase sale items . The interactive digital content comprises for example digital advertisements with interactive graphics which are provided as part of the digital media . Also as used herein sale item refers to a commodity for example information a product a service etc. In one example in which the present invention is used the digital media might be a digital magazine having a digital article which contains an advertisement displaying the sale items available for sale.

The computer implemented method disclosed herein relates to such digital media and more particularly to product cataloging and product indications used in digital advertising wherein the method promotes purchasing of products by consumers through the interactive digital content provided within the digital media . The computer implemented method disclosed herein employs a sales management system generally designated by reference numeral in . The sales management system comprises at least one processor configured to execute computer program instructions for generating sales of sale items through the interactive digital content within the digital media as will be described in further detail herein relative to .

Referring to the sales management system comprises a digital media application that provides robust features which display advertised sales items and related sale items as selected by vendors in a consumer friendly configuration wherein consumers can readily view the sale items and related sale items to facilitate the purchase thereof. As used herein the term consumer refers to a buyer for example a customer an individual an organization etc. that wants to purchase a sale item from an electronic commerce service provider . Also as used herein the term vendor refers to a seller for example an individual dealer a retailer an outlet a company a supplier etc. that offers various sale items for sale to one or more consumers via the interactive digital content within the digital media of the present invention. The digital media application allows consumers to purchase advertised sale items without leaving the digital platform on which the interactive digital content is being viewed. This avoids the necessity of linking the interactive digital content to third party web sites and redirecting purchasers to the third party web sites when they are still considering whether to purchase a sales item or related sales item . The digital media application presents the sale items and related sale items in a controlled messaging environment directly through the interactive digital media which offers a streamlined cart and or purchasing process. The direct connections provided by the digital media application enable consumers to visit the electronic commerce service provider view various sale items and complete multiple purchases while remaining on the digital media application . The sales management system of the present invention enables vendors to realize meaningful immediate increased sales activity that substantially improves the return on their advertising expenditure.

In more detail illustrates the sales management system for generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media . The sales management system disclosed herein is configured to enhance product familiarity and sales through use of interactive digital content for example digital advertisements within the digital media on the consumer s digital device . Multiple sale items for example products or services are showcased through a single dynamic interactive display element for example the dynamic lightbox which provides both in depth information and purchasing options for the advertised sale item s . The sales management system disclosed herein provides a unique service that allows vendors or advertisers to guide consumers to several points of product purchase rather than having to rely on one single static advertisement.

The sales management system comprises the digital media application and a sales management server . The digital media application is executable by at least one processor and is configured as a software application downloadable on a consumer device via a network . The network is for example the internet an intranet a wired network a wireless network a network that implements Wi Fi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. an ultra wideband communication network UWB a wireless universal serial bus USB communication network a communication network that implements ZigBee of ZigBee Alliance Corporation a general packet radio service GPRS network a mobile telecommunication network such as a global system for mobile GSM communications network a code division multiple access CDMA network a third generation 3G mobile communication network a fourth generation 4G mobile communication network a long term evolution LTE mobile communication network a public telephone network etc. a local area network a wide area network an internet connection network an infrared communication network etc. or a network formed from any combination of these networks.

The digital media application communicates with the sales management server via the network . The processor is communicatively coupled to a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium stores computer program instructions defined by modules etc. of the digital media application . The processor is configured to execute the defined computer program instructions. As used herein the phrase non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to all computer readable media for example non volatile media such as optical discs or magnetic disks volatile media such as a register memory a processor cache etc. and transmission media such as wires that constitute a system bus coupled to the processor except for a transitory propagating signal. The digital media application comprises a graphical user interface GUI such as that described above a media display module and an indicator management module which are implemented in device code on the server side. The sales management server comprises a dynamic integration module and an information retrieval module

The dynamic integration module of the sales management server dynamically integrates one or more of multiple electronic commerce service providers within the sales management system for facilitating purchase of multiple sale items or related sale item from within the digital media . In an embodiment the dynamic integration module further integrates multiple social networking applications to promote the sale items. The media display module of the digital media application displays the digital media comprising the interactive digital content on the consumer device via the GUI . The GUI comprises an interactive interface for example a webpage of a website hosted by the sales management system an online web interface a web based downloadable application interface a mobile based downloadable application interface etc. The indicator management module of the digital media application preferably inserts an indicator element at a predefined location within the interactive digital content in the digital media as disclosed in more detail relative to . The indicator management module further displays one or more sale item indicators positioned proximal to the sale items within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI when the indicator element is activated as exemplarily discussed above relative to .

The information retrieval module of the sales management server retrieves sale item information associated with one of the sale items and selects one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing purchase of the sale item when one of the sale item indicators associated with the sale item is activated within the interactive digital content in the digital media via the GUI . The information retrieval module retrieves the sale item information associated with the sale item and selects the electronic commerce service provider by performing multiple actions for example the information retrieval module first retrieves a sale item identifier of the sale item a vendor identifier and vendor configuration settings. The information retrieval module then determines one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing the purchase of the sale item based on the retrieved vendor configuration settings the retrieved sale item identifier and the retrieved vendor identifier. The information retrieval module retrieves related sale items exemplarily illustrated in and sale item details associated with the sale item and sale item information associated with the related sale item based on the retrieved sale item identifier. The information retrieval module further retrieves inventory information related to the sale item from the determined electronic commerce service provider .

The media display module displays the dynamic interactive display element linked to the activated sale item indicator within the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI . The media display module further renders a content display interface associated with the selected electronic commerce service provider within the dynamic interactive display element based on a selection of one of the direct purchasing options for initiating purchase of the sale item from within the dynamic interactive display element and thereby generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media . In an embodiment the information retrieval module further logs and validates a consumer request for viewing the sale item information prior to rendering the sale item information within the dynamic interactive display element .

With the above described system the method of the invention may be performed wherein generally shows the steps of the inventive method by which an improved purchasing process can be achieved.

In method step the computer implemented method disclosed herein dynamically integrates one or more of multiple electronic commerce service providers within the sales management system for facilitating purchase of multiple sale items from within the digital media being used by the consumer. The sales management system is used to integrate various sales items of the electronic commerce service provider which can then be integrated into the interactive digital content of the digital media .

In method step sales management system displays the digital media comprising the interactive digital content on the consumer device via the GUI provided by the sales management system . An example of the display of digital media is exemplarily illustrated in above. The consumer device is an electronic device for example a personal computer a tablet computing device a mobile computer a mobile phone a smart phone a portable computing device a laptop a personal digital assistant a touch centric device a workstation a client device a portable electronic device a network enabled computing device an interactive network enabled communication device a web browser any other suitable computing equipment and combinations of multiple pieces of computing equipment etc. The consumer device may also be a hybrid device that combines the functionality of multiple devices for example a portable device that receives email supports mobile telephone calls has music player functionality and supports web browsing. When displayed the interactive digital content promotes sale items that are available for purchase from within the digital media and markets such sale items to consumers through the consumer device being operated or viewed by the consumer. In addition to promoting the sale item itself each sale item is mapped to one or more related sale items provided by the electronic commerce service provider wherein the related sales items are also marketed to the consumer.

The interactive digital content may show various sales items therein which can be viewed by the consumer. To allow the consumer to identify what sales items are present within the interactive digital content being displayed on the consumer device the sales management system preferably inserts in step an indicator element at a predefined location within the interactive digital content in the digital media . As used herein indicator element refers to an element for example an icon or a button that is visible to the consumer and indicates the presence of an interactive object such as a sale item indicator . Generally each sale item indicator in turn may be activated to reveal hidden content when activated. The indicator element is also shown and described relative to .

When the indicator element is activated by the consumer the indicator element invokes a display of one or more sale item indicators in step . An exemplary sale item indicator is seen in . When a consumer clicks on the indicator element the sales management system activates the indicator element wherein in method step the sales management system displays one or more sale item indicators which are positioned proximal to the sale items contained within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI when the indicator element is activated. Each sale item indicator is associated with at least one sale item that is available for purchase from within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device . A single sale item indicator may be associated with a group or collection of sales items . When the consumer clicks on one of the sale item indicators the sales management system receives the consumer selection and activates that particular sale item indicator within the interactive digital content in the digital media via the GUI . In one example digital advertising might include one or more sales items which may be viewed in the advertising. The advertising preferably would include an indicator element at a predefined location and when the consumer clicks on the indicator element one or more sale item indicators would then be displayed next to respective sale items and be viewable by the consumer. If a particular sale item interested the consumer the consumer might then activate the respective sale item indicator which would display the hidden content associated therewith.

In step when a particular sales item indicator is activated the sales management system retrieves sale item information associated with the sale item or multiple sales items and selects one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing the purchase of any desired sale item . The sale item information comprises sale item details inventory information and related sale items . Like the description above relative to the sale item details comprises a sale item name a sale item size a sale item description a recommended use of the sale item images related videos related reviews and materials used in construction and or manufacturing of the sale item . The inventory information comprises a color option a sizing option and a quantity option. The sales management system retrieves the sale item information associated with the sale item and selects one of the electronic commerce service providers by performing multiple actions. The sales management system first retrieves a sale item identifier for example a sale item identity of the sale item a seller or vendor identifier and vendor configuration settings comprising electronic commerce service provider details such as an electronic commerce service provider identifier which can be provided by the vendor. As used herein vendor identifier refers to a unique name or label used to identify a vendor on the sales management system . The sales management system then determines one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing the purchase of the sale item based on the retrieved vendor configuration settings the retrieved sale item identifier and the retrieved vendor identifier. The sales management system further retrieves related sale items and sale item details associated with the sale item and related sale items based on the retrieved sale item identifier which information can be retrieved from server based storage or an electronic commerce service provider . The sales management system also retrieves inventory information related to the sale item or related sale item from the determined electronic commerce service provider .

In the next step the sales management system displays a dynamic interactive display element linked to the activated sale item indicator within the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI . illustrates an example of the dynamic interactive display element . As used herein dynamic interactive display element refers to an interactive pop up window for example a dynamic lightbox that expands to provide a display interface for showcasing the sale item information and related information. The dynamic interactive display element displays the retrieved sale item information and provides purchasing options for facilitating purchase of the sale item . The dynamic lightbox displays key elements to enhance the consumers experience and knowledge of the sale item as exemplarily illustrated in . The dynamic interactive display element displays an images section a detailed sale item information section a sale item reviews section a sale item related videos section a related sale items section and a purchasing details and options section. The images section presents high resolution images with zoom capabilities that provide enlarged views of the sale item providing in depth look and feel of the featured sale item. The detailed sale item information section provides a detailed description about the sale item recommended uses of the sale item and the materials used in the construction of the sale item . The sale item reviews section provides reviews written by other consumers who have purchased the sale item and hence allows the consumer to feel more confident about the sale item they are viewing thereby increasing the odds of purchase. The above elements of sale item details are also made available for any selected related sale items in the format presented for sale items.

The sale item related videos section presents the sale item in a real life environment. The video allows vendors to display how the sale items perform. The related sale items section also referred herein as the complete the look section allows vendors to expose multiple related sale items determined by the vendors that relate to or enhance the success of the advertised sale item . The purchasing details and options section reveals the color sizing and quantity options for each of the sale items. The purchasing options comprise an indirect purchase option for example an add to wish list option and a direct purchase option for example a buy now option. The buy now option allows the consumer to instantly purchase the advertised sale item or sale items or related sale item or related sale items without leaving the dynamic interactive display element . The add to wish list option allows the consumer to add the sale items to a shopping cart for purchase at a later time. The shopping cart functions as a cart and as a wish list.

In an embodiment the sales management system logs and validates a consumer request for viewing the sale item information prior to rendering the sale item information within the dynamic interactive display element . For example whenever a consumer or the digital media application requests for a sale item detail by activating the sales item indicator then the sales management server validates the request before rendering the sale item related details. Also every request is logged into the sales management system for auditing.

In step the sales management system renders a content display interface associated with the selected electronic commerce service provider within the dynamic interactive display element based on a selection of one of the purchasing options for initiating purchase of the sale item or related sale item from within the dynamic interactive display element and thereby generating sales through interactive digital content within the digital media . The content display interface is a graphical user interface for example a web page of a website an online web interface a web based downloadable application interface a mobile based downloadable application interface etc.

In an embodiment the sales management system integrates multiple social networking applications within the dynamic interactive display element to promote the sale items or related sale items and share sale item information. This feature allows social network sharing from within the application. To share an article or product information the consumer adds their social application accounts with the consumer device such as a mobile device wherein the accounts are added in an accounts section provided under device settings. Social media connectivity provides consumers the ability or tools to promote guerilla advertising of sale items about which they are passionate about to other members of targeted consumer groups. Examples of social networking applications comprise for example blogs such as Slogger LiveJournal of Primordial Soup Ltd. Open Diary TypePad of Six Apart Ltd. WordPress of WordPress Foundation Vox and VOXopolis of Voxopolis Inc. ExpressionEngine of PMachine Inc. Xanga of Xanga.com Inc. micro blogging and presence applications comprising for example Twitter of Twitter Inc. Plurk Tumblr. of Tumblr Inc. Jaiku of Google Inc. Fmylife social networking such as Bebo of Bebo Inc. Facebook of Facebook Inc. Linkedin of Linkedin Corporation MySpace of MySpace Inc. Orkut of Google Inc. Skyrock Hi5 of Hi5 Networks Inc. Ning of Ning Inc. Elgg and social network aggregation applications such as NutshellMail FriendFeed of Facebook Inc. etc.

The method of is further illustrated and explained relative to remaining . These following figures and the descriptions thereof further discuss the concepts and terminology used with respect to .

More particularly exemplarily illustrates a process flow diagram comprising the steps performed by the sales management system for generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media . The sales management system comprises the digital media application in operative communication with the sales management server via the network . The digital media application is configured as a software application downloadable on the consumer device such as through the network . The digital media application displays multiple presentations of digital media for example digital magazine articles on the consumer device via the graphical user interface GUI as disclosed in the detailed description of . The digital media application provides vendors the ability to directly advertise multiple related sale items or sale items to targeted consumer groups via the interactive digital content within the digital media at a time when the consumer is more likely to purchase. For example referring to when a consumer initiates a request for digital media such as a digital article through the digital media application the digital media application retrieves the requested digital media by deploying an application programming interface API that utilizes the JavaScript object notation JSON data interchange format of Sun Microsystems Inc. The digital media application then displays the retrieved digital media on the GUI of the consumer device . The digital media application embeds the interactive digital content for example an image within the retrieved digital media along with an indicator element that indicates the existence of a sale item such as a product displayed in the image that is available for purchase from within the digital media . The digital media application allows the consumer to click on the advertised sale item in the image within the digital article as described above relative to . The indicator element is also disclosed in more detail in the following description and figures.

When the indicator element is activated the digital media application identifies a tag of the interactive digital content for example an image tag of the image with the sale item identifier and adds a icon on the top left side of the sale item in the image or the interactive digital content as seen in . When the consumer taps on the icon the digital media application gets or retrieves the sale item and sale item detail from the sales management server by deploying another application programming interface API . The digital media application further interacts with an electronic commerce service provider such as Amazon or eBay to get or retrieve sale item information or at a minimum inventory information and electronic service provider s sale item code s . The digital media application binds the retrieved details that is the retrieved sale item details the inventory information and the related sale items in the dynamic interactive display element for example a dynamic lightbox for displaying the retrieved details as seen in . The digital media application displays the complete sale item information to the consumer.

The dynamic interactive display element further provides purchasing options for purchasing the sale items as disclosed in the detailed description of . When the consumer clicks on a purchasing option within the dynamic interactive display element the digital media application adds the sale item or related sale item to a shopping cart provided by the digital media application for facilitating purchase of the sale item or related sale item . The digital media application displays or shows the shopping cart with the price and the quantity option along with a checkout button that directs the consumer to the third party which typically is the appropriate electronic commerce service provider . The digital media application allows the consumer to increase the quantity of the sale item or related sale item i.e. the selected sale item in the shopping cart by selecting the quantity option. The digital media application automatically updates the quantity of the sale item or related sale item in the shopping cart . When the consumer taps on the checkout button to purchase the sale item or related sale item the digital media application posts the selected sale items to the electronic commerce service provider by deploying a third party API and embeds the view in the dynamic interactive display element . For example if the electronic commerce service provider is Amazon then the dynamic interactive display element displays the Amazon website within the digital media and the consumer can purchase the sale item or related sale item using an Amazon shopping cart. Once the consumer purchases the sale item or related sale item the digital media application removes the sale item or related sale item from the shopping cart . The consumer can track his her order from the Amazon website . In this manner a purchase of the sales items or related sale item can be completed with minimal interruption to the consumer.

Before rendering the sale item information the sales management server verifies the electronic commerce service provider cart configuration settings to determine the appropriate shopping cart that is to be used during checkout. Since each sale item is potentially mapped to multiple related sale items exemplarily illustrated in provided by the electronic commerce service provider the sales management server identifies the appropriate electronic commerce service provider identifier to fetch the inventory information. The entire sale item details are retrieved either from the sales management server or from the electronic commerce service provider at the same time. The sales management server sends a request to the determined electronic commerce service provider to fetch the inventory details. The sales management server then merges the inventory details to the sale item details to obtain the sale item information and renders the final output to the digital media application .

Next exemplarily illustrates a flowchart comprising the steps performed by the sales management system for retrieving sale item information and selecting an electronic commerce service provider . When a consumer checks a sale item and requests sale item information for the sale item which is tagged within the interactive digital content in the digital media the sales management server of the sales management system retrieves or receives a sale item identifier and a vendor identifier associated with the sale item. The sales management server then checks or verifies the validity of the vendor identifier. For example the sales management server verifies if the vendor identifier exists and if the vendor identifier is a valid identifier. If the vendor identifier is not a valid identifier then the sales management server returns an error message. If the vendor identifier is a valid identifier then the sales management server determines or finds the electronic commerce service provider associated with the vendor identifier. The sales management server then retrieves the electronic commerce service provider s credentials from the vendor identifier for determining the appropriate shopping cart that is to be used during checkout. The electronic commerce service provider credentials or vendor configuration settings comprise for example a sale item identifier an electronic commerce service provider identifier and security keys. The sales management server utilizes the electronic commerce service provider credentials to call the electronic commerce service provider to get sale item information or product inventory details. The sales management server converts all the retrieved sale item information into a format that is recognized by the digital media application and returns the retrieved sale item information to the digital media application .

Still further exemplarily illustrates a process flow diagram comprising the steps performed by the sales management system for coordinating purchase of the sale item or related sale item from within the digital media . When a consumer clicks on a sale item displayed in an interactive digital content within the digital media the digital media application requests for sale item information and electronic commerce service provider details from the sales management server . The sales management server sends the request to the electronic commerce service provider . The electronic commerce service provider receives the request from the sales management server and sends a response to the sales management server based on the sale item identifier security keys security tokens etc. used for authentication. The sales management server retrieves the sale item information or at a minimum the inventory detail from the electronic commerce service provider and provides the retrieved information to the digital media application as sale item information. The digital media application displays the sale item information on the consumer device via the GUI .

The digital media application provides an inbuilt shopping cart that allows a consumer to add one or more sale items or related sale items that the consumer wants to purchase. The digital media application adds the selected sale items or related sale items to the shopping cart . The shopping cart can be used to maintain more than one sale item or related sale item . The shopping cart provides a checkout or purchase button . When the consumer clicks on the purchase button the digital media application deploys a cart application programming interface API and sends a cart API request to the electronic commerce service provider . The cart API adds the sale items or related sale items in the shopping cart and returns the details. The digital media application transfers the sale items or related sale items to the electronic commerce service provider cart and embeds the electronic commerce service provider cart in the dynamic interactive display element within the digital media for example as seen in . The dynamic interactive display element loads or shows the shopping cart along with the selected sale items or related sale items . The consumer can then complete the checkout process from within the digital media . When the consumer clicks on the checkout button the digital media application allows the consumer to purchase the sale items or related sale items without moving out or navigating away from the digital media .

In more detail exemplarily illustrates a flowchart comprising the steps performed by the sales management system for coordinating purchase of the sale item or related sale item from within the digital media . When a consumer initiates a request for sale item detail of a sale item or related sale item the digital media application retrieves the sale item details of the sale item and picture details from the sales management server by using a sale item identifier or product identifier. The sales management server sends a request to the electronic commerce service provider to fetch sale item information or at a minimum inventory details depending on the vendor identifier or publisher identifier the sale item identifier and electronic commerce service provider identifier. The sale item details and the inventory information are merged and a final output is returned to the digital media application . When the consumer adds the sale item to the shopping cart and selects the purchase option the digital media application transfers the selected sale items or the selected related sales items to the electronic commerce service provider cart and displays the website of the electronic commerce service provider within the dynamic interactive display element in the digital media . The digital media application then facilitates checkout of the sale items or related sale item from the electronic commerce service provider cart.

The computer system comprises for example a processor a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a memory unit for storing programs and data an input output I O controller a network interface a data bus a display unit input devices a fixed media drive a removable media drive for receiving removable media output devices etc. The processor refers to any one or more microprocessors central processing unit CPU devices finite state machines computers microcontrollers digital signal processors logic a logic device an electronic circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a chip etc. or any combination thereof capable of executing computer programs or a series of commands instructions or state transitions. The processor may also be implemented as a processor set comprising for example a general purpose microprocessor and a math or graphics co processor. The processor is selected for example from the Intel processors such as the Itanium microprocessor or the Pentium processors Advanced Micro Devices AMD processors such as the Athlon processor UltraSPARC processors microSPARC processors HP processors International Business Machines IBM processors such as the PowerPC microprocessor the MIPS reduced instruction set computer RISC processor of MIPS Technologies Inc. RISC based computer processors of ARM Holdings Motorola processors Qualcomm processors etc. The digital media application and the sales management server of the sales management system disclosed herein are not limited to a computer system employing a processor . The computer system may also employ a controller or a microcontroller. Referring to the processor of the consumer device executes the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the processor of the sales management server executes the modules for example etc. of the sales management server .

The memory unit is used for storing programs applications and data. For example with reference to the media display module the indicator management module etc. of the digital media application are stored in the memory unit of the consumer device . In another example the dynamic integration module and the information retrieval module of the sales management server are stored in the memory unit of the sales management server . The memory unit is for example a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by the processor . The memory unit also stores temporary variables and other intermediate information used during execution of the instructions by the processor . The computer system further comprises a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor . The I O controller controls input actions and output actions performed by the digital media application .

The network interface enables connection of the computer system to the network . For example the digital media application connects to the network exemplarily illustrated in via the network interface of the consumer device . In another example the sales management server connects to the network via the network interface of the sales management server . In an embodiment the network interface is provided as an interface card also referred to as a line card. The network interface comprises for example one or more of an infrared IR interface an interface implementing Wi Fi of the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance Inc. a universal serial bus USB interface a FireWire interface of Apple Inc. an Ethernet interface a frame relay interface a cable interface a digital subscriber line DSL interface a token ring interface a peripheral controller interconnect PCI interface a local area network LAN interface a wide area network WAN interface interfaces using serial protocols interfaces using parallel protocols and Ethernet communication interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces a high speed serial interface HSSI a fiber distributed data interface FDDI interfaces based on transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP interfaces based on wireless communications technology such as satellite technology radio frequency RF technology near field communication etc. The data bus of the consumer device permits communications between the modules for example etc. of the digital media application . The data bus of the sales management server permits communications between the modules for example etc. of the sales management server .

The display unit via the graphical user interface GUI displays information display interfaces consumer interface elements such as text fields checkboxes text boxes windows etc. for allowing viewing of the digital media and sale item information associated with the sale item or related sale item . The display unit comprises for example a liquid crystal display a plasma display an organic light emitting diode OLED based display etc. The input devices are used for inputting data into the computer system . The consumer uses the input devices to provide inputs to the digital media application . For example a consumer may select one of the purchasing options to purchase the sale item using the input devices . The input devices are for example a keyboard such as an alphanumeric keyboard a microphone a joystick a pointing device such as a computer mouse a touch pad a light pen a physical button a touch sensitive display device a track ball a pointing stick any device capable of sensing a tactile input etc.

Computer applications and programs are used for operating the computer system . The programs are loaded onto the fixed media drive and into the memory unit of the computer system via the removable media drive . In an embodiment the computer applications and programs may be loaded directly via the network . Computer applications and programs are executed by double clicking a related icon displayed on the display unit using one of the input devices . The output devices output the results of operations performed by the digital media application and the sales management server . For example the digital media application provides detailed sale item information to consumers using the output devices . The digital media application displays the sale item information using the output devices .

The processor executes an operating system for example the Linux operating system the Unix operating system any version of the Microsoft Windows operating system the Mac OS of Apple Inc. the IBM OS 2 VxWorks of Wind River Systems inc. QNX Neutrino developed by QNX Software Systems Ltd. Palm OS the Solaris operating system developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. the Android operating system the Windows Phone operating system of Microsoft Corporation the BlackBerry operating system of Research in Motion Limited the iOS operating system of Apple Inc. the Symbian operating system of Symbian Foundation Limited etc. The computer system employs the operating system for performing multiple tasks. The operating system is responsible for management and coordination of activities and sharing of resources of the computer system . The operating system further manages security of the computer system peripheral devices connected to the computer system and network connections. The operating system employed on the computer system recognizes for example inputs provided by the consumers using one of the input devices the output display files and directories stored locally on the fixed media drive for example a hard drive. The operating system on the computer system executes different programs using the processor . The processor and the operating system together define a computer platform for which application programs in high level programming languages are written.

The processor of the computer system employed by the digital media application retrieves instructions defined by the media display module the indicator management module etc. of the digital media application for performing respective functions disclosed in the detailed description of . The processor of the computer system employed by the sales management server retrieves instructions defined by the dynamic integration module the information retrieval module etc. for performing respective functions disclosed in the detailed description of . The processor retrieves instructions for executing the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the modules for example etc. of the sales management server from the respective memory units . A program counter determines the location of the instructions in the memory unit . The program counter stores a number that identifies the current position in the program of each of the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the modules for example etc. of the sales management server . The instructions fetched by the processor from the memory unit after being processed are decoded. The instructions are stored in an instruction register in the processor . After processing and decoding the processor executes the instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.

At the time of execution the instructions stored in the instruction register are examined to determine the operations to be performed. The processor then performs the specified operations. The operations comprise arithmetic operations and logic operations. The operating system performs multiple routines for performing a number of tasks required to assign the input devices the output devices and memory for execution of the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the modules for example etc. of the sales management server . The tasks performed by the operating system comprise for example assigning memory to the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the modules for example etc. of the sales management server and to data used by the digital media application and the sales management server moving data between the memory unit and disk units and handling input output operations. The operating system performs the tasks on request by the operations and after performing the tasks the operating system transfers the execution control back to the processor . The processor continues the execution to obtain one or more outputs. The outputs of the execution of the modules for example etc. of the digital media application and the modules for example etc. of the sales management server are displayed to the consumer on the display unit .

For purposes of illustration the detailed description refers to the digital media application being run locally on the consumer device operating the computer system however the scope of the computer implemented method and the sales management system disclosed herein is not limited to the digital media application being run locally on the consumer device via the operating system and the processor but may be extended to run remotely over the network by employing a web browser and a remote server a mobile phone or other electronic devices. One or more portions of the computer system may be distributed across one or more computer systems not shown coupled to the network .

The above described computer system therefore is provided so as to operate a computer program product. The following provides further disclosure as to the computer program product which comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores computer program codes comprising instructions executable by at least one processor for generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media .

The computer program product comprises a first computer program code for dynamically integrating one or more of multiple electronic commerce service providers within the sales management system for facilitating purchase of multiple sale items from within digital media a second computer program code for displaying the digital media comprising interactive digital content on a consumer device via a GUI a third computer program code for inserting an indicator element at a predefined location within the interactive digital content in the digital media if desired a fourth computer program code for displaying one or more sale item indicators positioned proximal to the sale items within the interactive digital content in the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI when the indicator element is activated or even continuously if the indicator element is eliminated a fifth computer program code for retrieving sale item information or at a minimum inventory detail associated with one of the sale items or related sale items and selecting one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing the purchase of the sale item a sixth computer program code for displaying a dynamic interactive display element linked to the activated sale item indicator within the digital media on the consumer device via the GUI and a seventh computer program code for rendering a content display interface associated with the selected electronic commerce service provider within the dynamic interactive display element based on a selection of one of the direct purchasing options for initiating purchase of the sale item or related sale items from within the dynamic interactive display element and thereby generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media .

The fifth computer code further comprises an eighth computer program code for retrieving a sale item identifier of the sale item or related sale items a vendor identifier and vendor configuration settings a ninth computer program code for determining one of the electronic commerce service providers for completing purchase of the sale item based on the retrieved vendor configuration settings the retrieved sale item identifier and the retrieved vendor identifier a tenth computer program code for retrieving related sale items exemplarily illustrated in and sale item information associated with the related sale item based on the retrieved sale item identifier and an eleventh computer program code for logging and validating a consumer request for viewing the sale item information prior to rendering the sale item information within the dynamic interactive display element . The computer program product disclosed herein further comprises one or more additional computer program codes for performing additional steps that may be required and contemplated for generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media . In an embodiment a single piece of computer program code comprising computer executable instructions performs one or more steps of the computer implemented method disclosed herein for generating sales through interactive digital content within digital media .

The computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions are embodied on the non transitory computer readable storage medium. The processor of the computer system retrieves these computer executable instructions and executes them. When the computer executable instructions are executed by the processor the computer executable instructions cause the processor to perform the steps of the computer implemented method for generating sales through interactive digital content within digital media . The above described methods and system provide an improved system for facilitating purchases of sales items including related sales items .

In operation the particular presentation of the digital media can vary and depend upon many factors. In this regard illustrate sample screenshots of the graphical user interface GUI provided by the digital media application of the sales management system for generating sales through the interactive digital content within the digital media . The screenshot of the GUI of shows the digital media application displaying the digital media for example as a digital magazine which includes a digital article on skiing. The article might be a general discussion of skiing or some other topic and as such is not necessarily presented to the consumer as an obvious advertisement. However it will be understood that the photo of the skier could also be part of an advertisement or catalog without departing from the present invention. In any case the digital media comprises the interactive digital content which includes one or more sale items that can be viewed by a potential consumer. The digital media application of the sales management system disclosed herein enhances sales success of digital magazine articles advertisements by facilitating purchase of the sale item from within the digital magazine. The sales management system may display various sale items through the digital media application as well as the related sale items which vendors believe are appropriate.

In accord with the above discussion of the digital media application embeds the indicator element in the GUI which on activation by the consumer invokes the display of a sale item indicator positioned proximal to the sales item . The consumer will recognize that the indicator element essentially indicates that sales items are present with the digital media . When a consumer becomes interested and activates the P icon the digital media application displays the sale item indicator next to the helmet which indicates that the helmet is purchasable from within the digital media application . In an alternate form of the invention the indicator element might be omitted while the sales item indicators are displayed continuously or possibly by passing over a sales item with a cursor or the like. As described above relative to when the consumer activates the sale item indicator the digital media application retrieves related sale items and sale item details associated with the sales item using a sale item identifier the vendor identifier and the vendor configuration settings. The digital media application determines an electronic commerce service provider for completing the purchase based on the retrieved information. The digital media application further retrieves sale item information or at a minimum inventory information.

More particularly as to when the sales item indicator is activated the digital media application displays the dynamic interactive digital element that displays the retrieved sale item information. All the related sale items are displayed at the bottom of the dynamic lightbox as thumbnails. When the consumer clicks on one of the related sale items displayed in the related sale item boxes of the related sale items section the digital media application provides detailed information about the selected related sale item . If the consumer clicks on the add to cart button then the digital media application adds the sales item or related sale item to the shopping cart as seen in . The digital media application provides the toolbar that provides shortcut links to frequently used controls. When the consumer clicks on the shopping cart icon or shopping bag icon on the toolbar the digital media application displays the shopping cart within the dynamic interactive digital element or dynamic lightbox showing all the selected sale items or related sale items added to the shopping cart . If the consumer decides to proceed and purchase the helmet by clicking on the purchase button the digital media application routes to electronic commerce service provider such as Amazon as exemplarily illustrated in .

Preferably as seen in the shopping cart displays the sale items and related sale items and the digital media application allows the consumer to edit size and quantity of each sale item or related sale item in the shopping cart and select one or more items for immediate purchase. The digital media application automatically updates the shopping cart based on the consumer selections of the sale items the quantity option and the size option. The shopping cart also provides the checkout button that allows the consumer to checkout the selected sale items or related sale items and redirects the consumer to the electronic commerce service provider . The provider web site is loaded in the dynamic lightbox within the digital media and the consumer can continue the purchase through the electronic commerce service provider web site.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods algorithms and computer programs disclosed herein may be implemented on computer readable media appropriately programmed for computing devices. As used herein computer readable media refers to non transitory computer readable media that participate in providing data for example instructions that may be read by a computer a processor or a similar device. Non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media for example non volatile media volatile media and transmission media except for a transitory propagating signal. Non volatile media comprise for example optical discs or magnetic disks and other persistent memory volatile media including a dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Volatile media comprise for example a register memory a processor cache a random access memory RAM etc. Transmission media comprise for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables modems etc. including wires that constitute a system bus coupled to a processor etc. Common forms of computer readable media comprise for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape a laser disc a Blu ray Disc any magnetic medium a compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD any optical medium a flash memory card punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory RAM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The computer programs that implement the methods and algorithms disclosed herein may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media for example the computer readable media in a number of manners. In an embodiment hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Therefore the embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. In general the computer program codes comprising computer executable instructions may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of programming languages that can be used comprise Pro C C JavaScript CSS HTML MS SQL Server SQL Lite and Microsoft .NET etc. Other object oriented functional scripting and or logical programming languages may also be used. The computer program codes or software programs may be stored on or in one or more mediums as object code. Various aspects of the method and system disclosed herein may be implemented as programmed elements or non programmed elements or any suitable combination thereof. The computer program product disclosed herein comprises one or more computer program codes for implementing the processes of various embodiments.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment comprising one or more computers that are in communication with one or more devices via a network. The computers may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired medium or a wireless medium such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Ethernet a token ring or via any appropriate communications mediums or combination of communications mediums. Each of the devices comprises processors some examples of which are disclosed above that are adapted to communicate with the computers. In an embodiment each of the computers is equipped with a network communication device for example a network interface card a modem or other network connection device suitable for connecting to a network. Each of the computers and the devices executes an operating system some examples of which are disclosed above. While the operating system may differ depending on the type of computer the operating system will continue to provide the appropriate communications protocols to establish communication links with the network. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computers.

The present invention is not limited to a particular computer system platform processor operating system or network. One or more aspects of the present invention may be distributed among one or more computer systems for example servers configured to provide one or more services to one or more client computers or to perform a complete task in a distributed system. For example one or more aspects of the present invention may be performed on a client server system that comprises components distributed among one or more server systems that perform multiple functions according to various embodiments. These components comprise for example executable intermediate or interpreted code which communicate over a network using a communication protocol. The present invention is not limited to be executable on any particular system or group of systems and is not limited to any particular distributed architecture network or communication protocol.

The foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention disclosed herein. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may affect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

