---

title: Route inspection portals
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for populating a map interface with a route inspection portal and/or for generating travel route video. In an example, a map interface is populated with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The map canvas is populated with inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to identifying a selection of an inspection marker at an inspection location, imagery depicting the inspection location may be identified. The map canvas is populated with a route inspection portal for the inspection marker. The route inspection portal is populated with the imagery (e.g., street-side imagery of an intersection along the travel route). In an example, a travel route video, comprising video frames corresponding to an ordering of the imagery (e.g., from a start location to an end location) along the travel route, may be generated and/or played.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482548&OS=09482548&RS=09482548
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09482548
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140717
---
Many applications and or websites provide information through map interfaces. For example a videogame may display a destination for an avatar on a map canvas a running website may display running routes through a web map interface a mobile map app may display driving directions on a road map canvas a realtor app may display housing information such as images sale prices home value estimates and or other information on a map canvas etc. Such applications and or websites may allow a user to pan and or zoom to view different content.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for populating a map interface with a route inspection portal and or for generating a travel route video are provided herein. In an example of populating a map interface with a route inspection view portal a map interface may be populated with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The map canvas may be populated with one or more inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to identifying a selection of a first inspection marker at a first inspection location within the map canvas a second inspection marker at a second inspection location may be identified as corresponding to first imagery depicting the first inspection location. The map canvas may be populated with a route inspection portal for the first inspection marker. The route inspection portal may be populated with the first imagery. In an example a travel instruction for the first inspection location may be identified and the route inspection portal may be populated with the travel instruction.

In an example of generating a travel route video a map interface may be populated with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. A travel route video may be generated for the travel route. The travel route video may comprise a plurality of video frames corresponding to a sequential travel route ordering of imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to receiving a play travel route video command the travel route video may be played.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and or systems for populating a map interface with a route inspection portal and or for generating a travel route video are provided herein. Users may desire to view relatively higher resolution and or photorealistic imagery of travel route portions of travel routes depicted by map canvases e.g. street side imagery of an intersection that may aid the user in correctly follow driving directions . However many computing devices such as mobile devices may lack processing power storage and or bandwidth to generate store and or construct map canvases with such imagery. Accordingly a route inspection portal e.g. a user interface element is constructed for a travel route portion of a travel route and imagery of the travel route portion may be populated within the route inspection portal. Because the route inspection portal is populated with imagery of a specified travel route portion at any given time as opposed to imagery of the entire travel route the route inspection portal may reduce processor utilization storage and or bandwidth. In an example a mapping component configured to generate route inspection portals may be locally hosted on a client device through which a route inspection portal may be displayed and thus may mitigate bandwidth utilization. In another example the mapping component may be hosted on a remote server configured to provide route inspection portals to the client device and thus may mitigate client side memory and or processor utilization. In an example the mapping component may be distributed locally and remotely such that some of the mapping component is hosted locally and some of the mapping component is hosted remotely.

An embodiment of populating a map interface with a route inspection portal is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a map interface may be populated with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. In an example a user may request driving directions from a home location to a movie theatre location. In another example user signals associated with the user e.g. a social network post about seeing a movie an email a calendar entry browsing history and or other signals indicative of the user having a user intent to travel to the movie theatre location may be evaluated e.g. given user consent to identify a user intent to travel the travel route. The user may take affirmative action such as providing opt in consent to allow access to and or use of the user signals such as for the purpose of travel intent identification e.g. where a user responds to a prompt regarding the collection and or use of such information .

At the map canvas may be populated with one or more inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. In an example an inspection marker may corresponding to imagery e.g. a photo street side imagery photorealistic imagery a panorama rendered imagery etc. depicting driving along the travel route from the home location to the movie theatre location e.g. an on ramp an off ramp an intersection etc. . In another example an inspection marker may correspond to other areas within the map canvas that are not directly along the travel route which may be useful if the user becomes lost and may desire to see imagery of other areas not directly along the travel route. In an example the imagery may be retrieved from a remote source such as a mapping service for storage on a client device hosting the map interface e.g. the user intent to travel the travel route to the movie theatre location may indicate that the user will visit the movie theatre next week and thus the imagery may be pre downloaded e.g. a few days in advance to the client device while the client device e.g. a smartphone is connected to a WiFi network .

At responsive to identifying a selection of a first inspection marker at a first inspection location within the map canvas a second inspection marker at a second inspection location may be identified as corresponding to first imagery depicting the first inspection location. For example the user may select the first inspection marker located at an intersection along the travel route. The second inspection marker at the second inspection location may be identified as having first imagery depicting e.g. looking towards the intersection based upon the second inspection marker being a threshold distance along the travel route before the first inspection marker e.g. 100 meters before the intersection . That is the first inspection marker may be associated with imagery looking out from the intersection and thus such imagery may depict an area looking out from or away from the intersection e.g. as opposed to imagery depicting the intersection which may be less unhelpful in aiding the user in navigating the intersection. Accordingly the second inspection marker associated with first imagery looking towards the intersection may be identified e.g. based upon a distance calculation and or a direction calculation that identifies the second inspection location as being a threshold distance before the first inspection location of interest to the user .

At the map canvas may be populated with a route inspection portal e.g. a user interface element a lens a bubble etc. for the first inspection marker. It may be appreciated that the route inspection portal may comprise any shape e.g. a circular shape oval shape irregular shape size e.g. a size that encompasses the first inspection location such as the intersection color e.g. a translucent edge and or configuration e.g. the route inspection portal may comprise a user interface element that overlays the map canvas and that allows the route inspection portal to be resizeable and or moveable by a user .

At the route inspection portal may be populated with the first imagery. The first imagery e.g. taken from a view perspective of the second inspection location looking towards the intersection at the first inspection location may comprise photos street side imagery photorealistic imagery or other imagery depicting the intersection. In an example a travel instruction associated with the first inspection location may be identified. The travel instruction may comprise an on ramp instruction an off ramp instruction a turn instruction a merge instruction a yield instruction a traffic light instruction an accident alert instruction a business suggestion instruction a driving direction instruction or any other information e.g. a visual symbol such as a turn symbol a merge symbol a stop symbol a speed limit a textual instruction such as turn right etc. . In an example the route inspection portal may be populated with the travel instruction. In another example a view perspective of the first imagery may be oriented to depict a travel entity corresponding to the travel instruction e.g. the view perspective may be oriented towards an on ramp onto which the user is to enter from the intersection the view perspective may be oriented towards an ice cream store located at the intersection as a business suggestion to get ice cream before the movie etc. .

In an example the route inspection portal may be projected onto a surface. For example the route inspection portal may be projected onto a wearable device surface e.g. projected onto a surface of glasses . The route inspection portal may be projected onto a vehicle surface such as a windshield. In this way the route inspection portal may be provided through the map canvas e.g. overlaid the map canvas anchored to the first inspection location etc. or projected onto another surface. In an example a view perspective associated with the route inspection portal may be modified based upon view modification input. For example the user may pan tilt and or zoom the view perspective of the route inspection portal e.g. the user may pan look left towards a building . In an example a route inspection interface may be provided to the user. For example a view transition command associated with the route inspection interface may be received e.g. the user may select a full view button populated within the map interface . Accordingly the map interface may be transitioned from displaying the map canvas to displaying the route inspection interface e.g. a full screen view of the first imagery .

In an example the user may transition between inspection locations to view route inspection portals depicting various imagery associated with the travel route. For example responsive to identifying a second selection of a third inspection marker at a third inspection location within the map canvas e.g. the user may select an off ramp portion of the travel route a fourth inspection marker at a fourth inspection location may be identified as corresponding to second imagery depicting the third inspection location e.g. a highway section that is before the off ramp and thus the second imagery taken from the view point of the highway section may depict the off ramp . The map canvas may be populated with a second route inspection portal for the third inspection marker. The second route inspection portal may be populated with the second imagery.

In an example a travel route video may be generated. The travel route video may comprise a plurality of video frames corresponding to a sequential travel route ordering of the imagery e.g. imagery starting from the home location as starting video frames to imagery ended at the movie theatre location as ending video frames . Responsive to receiving a play travel route video command the travel route video may be played. At the method ends.

An embodiment of generating a travel route video is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a map interface may be populated with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. At a travel route video comprising a plurality of video frames corresponding to a sequential travel route ordering of imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route may be generated. At responsive to receiving a play travel route video command the travel route video may be played. For example the travel route video may be played through the map interface e.g. overlaid the map canvas . The travel route video may be positioned at locations within the map canvas that correspond to locations of imagery currently depicted by video frames of the travel route video. At the method ends.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for populating a map interface with a route inspection view portal is provided. The method includes populating a map interface with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The map canvas may be populated with one or more inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to identifying a selection of a first inspection marker at a first inspection location within the map canvas a second inspection marker at a second inspection location may be identified as corresponding to first imagery depicting the first inspection location. The map canvas may be populated with a route inspection portal for the first inspection marker. The route inspection portal may be populated with the first imagery.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for populating a map interface with a route inspection portal is provided. The system includes a mapping component. The mapping component may be configured to populate a map interface with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The mapping component may be configured to populate the map canvas with one or more inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to identifying a selection of a first inspection marker at a first inspection location within the map canvas the mapping component may be configured to identify a second inspection marker at a second inspection location as corresponding to first imagery depicting the first inspection location. The mapping component may be configured to populate the map canvas with a route inspection portal for the first inspection marker. The mapping component may be configured to identify a travel instruction for the first inspection location. The mapping component may be configured to populate the route inspection portal with the first imagery and the travel instruction.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for generating a travel route video is provided. The method includes populating a map interface with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. A travel route video comprising a plurality of video frames corresponding to a sequential travel route ordering of imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route may be generated. Responsive to receiving a play travel route video command the travel route video may be played.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a means for populating a map interface with a route inspection view portal is provided. The means for populating may populate a map interface with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The means for populating may populate the map canvas with one or more inspection markers corresponding to imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to identifying a selection of a first inspection marker at a first inspection location within the map canvas the means for populating may identify a second inspection marker at a second inspection location as corresponding to first imagery depicting the first inspection location. The means for populating may populate the map canvas with a route inspection portal for the first inspection marker. The means for populating may populate the route inspection portal with the first imagery. The means for populating may identify a travel instruction for the first inspection location may. The means for populating may populate the route inspection portal with the travel instruction.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a means for generating a travel route video is provided. The means for generating may populate a map interface with a map canvas illustrating a travel route. The means for generating may generate a travel route video comprising a plurality of video frames corresponding to a sequential travel route ordering of imagery depicting travel route portions of the travel route. Responsive to receiving a play travel route video command the means for generating may play the travel route video.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Computer storage media does not however include propagated signals. Rather computer storage media excludes propagated signals. Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B and or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

