---

title: System and method for reconnecting a device to a group call
abstract: A system and method for reestablishing a voice communications session moderated by a group call server between two or more telephony devices. The method is performed by a processor monitoring the communications session. The method comprises: storing one or more data records representing group call information; detecting disconnection of at least one participating telephony device from the group communications session, and determining that the disconnection was not intentionally initiated; accessing the stored call group information data and causing signals to enable reestablishment of participation by the disconnected device to be sent to the disconnected device; and upon receipt by the group call server from the disconnected device of signals representing a request to reconnect the disconnected device, outputting command signals for reestablishing a communications session between the disconnected device and at least one other device participating in the group communications session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225839&OS=09225839&RS=09225839
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09225839
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140930
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 536 940 titled System and Method for Reconnecting a Device to a Group Call filed Jun. 28 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 394 377 filed Feb. 27 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 238 537 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present application relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to a system and method for reconnecting a device to a group or conference call

A conference call sometimes also referred to as a group call is typically a voice call among two or more participant devices. Such a call is typically moderated by a call moderator such as a suitably programmed telephone services server which can be controlled either by one of the call participant devices or by an independent party not controlled by either of the call participant devices and each participant must be authorized and authenticated by the call controller in order to join the call. This authorization and authentication typically requires the user to enter a passcode or PIN which may comprise a lengthy series of numbers or other identifiers.

During a conference call a device participating in the call may be disconnected from the group call by hanging up or by the call moderator ending the call with that device. However in some cases the device is unintentionally disconnected from the group call for example when a participating wireless communications device enters a tunnel or otherwise loses signal coverage. In order to reconnect a disconnected device to a group call for example when the device emerges from the tunnel and regains signal coverage it is generally necessary for the device to be re authorized and re authenticated by a user of the disconnected device re dialing the call in number and re entering the lengthy passcode. This may be burdensome for the user and may not be easily carried out.

It would be desirable to provide a convenient and secure way to reconnect the device to the group or conference call.

In one aspect the present application provides a method for reestablishing a voice communications session moderated by a group call server between two or more telephony devices. The method is performed by a processor monitoring the communications session. The method comprises storing in a memory accessible by a processor monitoring participation of at least one telephony device in a group communications session between a plurality of participating telephony devices one or more data records representing group call information the group call information including information useable for reestablishing participation by the at least one telephony device in the group call session detecting disconnection of the at least one participating telephony device from the group communications session and determining that the disconnection was not intentionally initiated accessing the stored call group information data and using such accessed data causing signals adapted to enable reestablishment of participation by the at least one disconnected telephony device in the group call session to be sent from the group call server to the at least one disconnected telephony device and upon receipt by the group call server from the at least one disconnected telephony device of signals representing a request to reconnect the disconnected telephony device with the group communications session outputting command signals adapted for reestablishing a communications session between the disconnected participating device and at least one other device participating in the group communications session.

In another aspect the present application provides a method in a device for reconnecting the device to a group call in an enterprise communication network the network comprising a group call server. The method comprises maintaining at the device connection information for the group call detecting at the device an unintentional disconnect of the device from the group call sending a reconnection request to the server the reconnection request containing the connection information and reconnecting to the group call.

In another aspect the present application provides a system configured for reestablishing a voice communications session moderated by a group call server between two or more telephony devices. The system comprises a processor and a memory accessible by the processor wherein the memory comprises one or more data records representing group call information the group call information including information useable for reestablishing participation by the at least one telephony device in the group call session. The processor is configured to detect disconnection of the at least one participating telephony device from the group communications session and to determine that the disconnection was not intentionally initiated access the stored call group information data and using such accessed data cause signals adapted to enable reestablishment of participation by the at least one disconnected telephony device in the group call session to be sent from the group call server to the at least one disconnected telephony device and upon receipt by the group call server from the at least one disconnected telephony device of signals representing a request to reconnect the disconnected telephony device with the group communications session output command signals configured to reestablish a communications session between the disconnected participating device and at least one other device participating in the group communications session.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterpriser e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoiP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoiP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response IVR call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APis as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing or other group calls call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the relevant arts.

Reference is now made to collectively referred to as which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoiP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference or group call services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoiP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including for example desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server may be provided in the enterprise network and may be in communication with the conference services enabler through for example SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server may be configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Reference is again made to . As discussed above the PLMN may communicate with the relay which in turn communicates with the enterprise network via the enterprise server .

Group calls may be made through the PSTN or using a mobile device via the PLMN or the WLAN . In the case of a call made through the PSTN the call may be monitored and otherwise moderated by an automatic data processor such as a suitably configured enterprise server through the VoiP or FMC components of the SMP or by one or more processors associated with any one or more of participating devices . For example in the case of a call using a mobile device the device may send a presence signal at fixed time intervals to a moderating enterprise server . The presence signal may serve to let the enterprise server know that the device is still connected to the network. When one or more time intervals pass without a presence signal the enterprise server can thus detect that the device has lost signal coverage or has stopped participating for other reasons for example if the device stops working e.g. where the battery has run out . As will be understood by those skilled in the relevant arts once they have been made familiar with this disclosure similar monitoring moderating and re connection processes may be performed by processors incorporated within any one or more of participating devices .

The enterprise server or other monitoring or moderating processor is thus able to confirm or otherwise determine the working state of a telephony device . During a group call a participant such as a mobile telephony device may be disconnected from the group call by intentional disconnection e.g. by a user of the device hanging up the device by removal or disconnection by the moderator or by disconnection through unavailability of the network or any component thereof necessary to maintain the group call.

The group call may be monitored and otherwise moderated by a group call server. In some embodiments the group call server may be the enterprise server or a dedicated application or circuit component thereof. Alternatively the group call server may be a separate component within the enterprise network . For simplicity this disclosure will discuss the embodiment where the group call server is the enterprise server . However it will be immediately understood by those skilled in the relevant arts that the group call server may be a separate component.

A group call typically comprises a sustained voice media session maintained between two or more participant devices by a moderator device which performs functions such as initiation and termination of the various communications sessions which comprise the group call. Each of the devices may establish a call or session leg to the enterprise platform by providing the required connection information e.g. dial in number authorization passcode and authentication PIN and the call legs are joined at the enterprise platform into a group call.

The moderating device and each of the participating devices may perform the various functions described herein by executing scripted programming functions as for example described herein. For example the moderating enterprise server may maintain accessible stored data records representing group call information which may for example include information on the active call legs of the group call and the connection information such as authorization and or authentication information for each call leg. Each device may also share in the group call information thus each device shares in the information about for example the dial in number for the group call however each device may have restricted access to the connection information such that it only shares in its own connection information thus maintaining the privacy and security of any authorization or authentication information.

When the moderator device determines as for example according to a suitably programmed protocol script that a participant device should be disconnected from the group call the moderator device communicates suitably configured signals representing a disconnect command to the controlling enterprise server e.g. by a user sending an instructing to terminate a certain participant number to the enterprise server the call leg of that participant is disconnected and the group call information is updated to note that call leg is no longer active and to remove its associated connection information from the group call information. An END OF CALL protocol message may be communicated to the group call server and or the disconnected participant device to confirm the intentional disconnect.

When a user of a participating device wishes to disconnect the device from the group call the user may cause the device to disconnect itself by sending an appropriate communication to the enterprise server e.g. by a user sending an END CALL request through the device to the enterprise server the call leg of that participant device may then be disconnected from the group call and the group call information is updated to note that call leg is no longer active and to remove its associated connection information from the group call information. An END OF CALL protocol message may be communicated to the group call server and or the disconnected participant device to confirm the intentional disconnect. In both cases the intentional disconnection of a call leg is preceded by a request for disconnection and may be confirmed by an END OF CALL indicator.

If a call leg is disconnected without a request for disconnection e.g. if one of the participating devices ceases to respond to or provide required or expected communications the enterprise server can determine that an unintentional disconnection has occurred by for example consulting the stored group call information data set and noting that the data set does not indicate that the device was intentionally disconnected e.g. a corresponding flag may be set to a condition indicating that the device is intended to actively continue participating in the call . A reconnection may be attempted the details of which are described below.

Reference is now made to which is a flowchart showing an embodiment of a general method for reconnecting an unintentionally disconnected device to a group call.

In the system a user may participate in a group call for example using a mobile device . Typically when a device joins a group call the user is required to enter connection information such as an authorization passcode and or an authentication PIN and suitably configured signals are forwarded to the moderating server or other device . The moderating server may compare the provided passcode and or pin to previously established authentication codes and on confirming that the provided codes are correct can cause a suitable communications session or connection to be established. As described above information relevant to the connection such as one or more identifiers corresponding to the participating device may be maintained in a stored data set representing the group call information by the enterprise server .

The method can begin at block the point at which a participating device has been unintentionally disconnected from a group call.

At block since the enterprise server did not receive any request for disconnecting the device from the group call the group call information maintained by the enterprise server is unchanged. That is the group call information still notes the call leg for that device as being active and still includes the connection information for that call leg.

At block the unintentional disconnection of the device is detected. This may for example be detected by the enterprise server as the absence of a call leg that should be active according to the group call information. In some examples this may be where a heartbeat or other timed participation signal is not received. In other examples a timed participation signal may not be used such as in a mobile device where such a signal would affect battery performance. The unintentional disconnection may be detected as the absence of an expected call leg according to the group call information and the absence of an END OF CALL indicator that would indicate that the disconnect was intentional. Because the enterprise server is able to distinguish between intentional and unintentional disconnections a reconnection is not attempted where the disconnection is intentional which minimizes processing demands on the server . For example when a user of a device wishes to terminate participation the user can as described above cause a suitable call termination command to be sent to the moderating server on receipt of which the server can cause a suitable flag to be set in the call information data set. Thus a participant device that intentionally disconnects may be prevented from being burdened with a reconnection attempt from the enterprise server and the user of that participant device is not bothered with a request from the enterprise server for a reconnection.

At block the enterprise server attempts to reconnect the unintentionally disconnected device to the group call. This attempt may be carried out directly by the moderating server or by any other suitably configured component of enterprise platform . The reconnection attempt may comprise sending an invitation request to the device to rejoin the group call. For example server or a component associated therewith may cause signals representing a suitably configured request or command to be sent to the disconnected device . Such signals may for example cause the device to ring and or to present on a suitably configured display information informing a user of the device of the attempt and inviting the user to reconnect by for example pressing a suitably configured pick up or other key on the device .

In some embodiments the reconnection invitation may be automatically accepted by the device without any requiring any input from the user. This may be the case for example where the user has preconfigured the device to automatically rejoin a group call. Alternatively the reconnection invitation may trigger an output to the user for example a dialog box asking the user to choose whether or not to reconnect to the group call. The reconnection attempt may only proceed if there is a positive response. The user is not required to enter any details about the group call or any connection information since this information is already available to the enterprise server via the retained group call information.

At block if the device accepts the invitation confirmation that the device is authorized to reconnect to the group call is made by the server using the connection information that was maintained in the group call information. There is no need for the device to provide the enterprise server with previously provided passcodes etc. to confirm authorization for reconnection. For example authentication of the device may be carried out by comparing the connection information maintained in the enterprise server with connection information maintained in the device or the unique PIN inherently associated with the device . Instead of the PIN associated with the device a unique PIN associated with the user may be utilized. The user PIN may be created as part of the setup for a group call and may offer greater security as it may be more difficult to be cloned or spoofed.

In some embodiments the reconnection invitation may be automatically accepted by the device without any requiring any input from the user. This may be the case for example where the user has preconfigured the device to automatically rejoin a group call. Alternatively the reconnection invitation may trigger an output to the user for example a dialog box asking the user may to choose whether or not to reconnect to the group call. The reconnection attempt may only proceed if there is a positive response. The user is not required to enter any details about the group call or any connection information since this information is already available to the enterprise server via the retained group call information.

As will be immediately understood by those skilled in the relevant arts once they have been made familiar with this disclosure any suitable refinements or limitations may be made on process for reestablishing group call connections according to the disclosure. For example prior to initiating a reconnection attempt at in process the moderating server may confirm that other participants in the group call have not within a desired time of the detected unintentional disconnection intentionally disconnected and or the server may confirm that the unintentional disconnection has not occurred longer than a predetermined elapsed time in the past.

Although the method has been described as being carried out by the enterprise server in some embodiments the reconnection attempt may be initiated and executed by the device for example where the enterprise server has given up attempts to reconnect the device . The steps of the method may be similarly carried out by the device .

At the step the connection information or a suitable copy of all or a part thereof may be maintained by the device but the connection information may be limited to information directly applicable to the device . For example the connection information maintained at the device may include only authorization and or authentication information for that device and not other devices in the group call.

At the device may detect an unintentionally disconnect when for example the device has neither sent nor received any END CALL request to the enterprise server . An unintentional disconnect may also be detected by the absence of an END OF CALL indicator which normally indicates an intentional disconnect as explained above.

At the device attempts to reconnect to the group call through the moderating server or the moderating server attempts to reconnect the device . This step may first require confirmation e.g. via a YES NO dialog box from the user that the reconnection should be made. Because the device maintains the connection information this information may be provided to the enterprise server in order to rejoin the group call. The user thus does not need to re enter any connection information such as authorization and or authentication information or even the call in number for the group call. This may be referred to as a one button join where the user only has to press a single button to indicate a YES response to a dialog box asking whether or not to join a group call and no other input is required from the user. The device may attempt to reconnect automatically without any user input for example where the user has preconfigured the device to automatically reconnect to a group call.

The device may be preconfigured to automatically rejoin a group call without requiring any confirmation from the user optionally such a setting may be over ruleable by suitable scripting of the enterprise server for example based on security policies set on the server.

At the device is reconnected to the group call. This may include authorization and or authentication or confirmation of previous authorization or authentication of the device by the enterprise server for example by comparing the connection information in the group call information maintained at the enterprise server with the connection information provided by the device .

In some embodiments the enterprise server will attempt to reconnect to a device that was unintentionally disconnected for only a preset period of time for example 10 minutes after which no further reconnection attempts will be made. This situation may occur where the device has roamed into an area with no signal coverage for example a tunnel. When the device regains signal coverage although there may be no further reconnection attempts from the enterprise server the device retains the group call information and thus may itself attempt to reconnect with the group call as described above.

In some embodiments for example where the device is unintentionally disconnected due to loss of signal coverage the enterprise server will make a reconnection attempt only when the enterprise server detects that the device has regained signal coverage. This may be suitable where the device is configured to send a presence signal to the enterprise server at fixed time intervals as discussed above. When one or more time intervals pass without a presence signal being received at the enterprise server the enterprise server determines that the device has lost signal coverage. It may be a waste of computing resources to attempt to reconnect the device immediately since the attempt is sure to fail without signal coverage. Instead the enterprise server may wait until a presence signal is again received from the device indicating that the device has regained signal coverage. Only after the enterprise server has determined that the device has regained signal coverage will the enterprise server attempt to reconnect to the device .

Although the above description refers to the enterprise server and the enterprise communication platform in some embodiments here network topology permits an unintentionally disconnected call leg may be reconnected by low level network layers using the shared group call information. This may be based on the least cost routing preferences preset by the system.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

