---

title: Selecting a radio node for data traffic offloading
abstract: A technology that is operable to select a radio node on a communications network is disclosed. In one embodiment, a user equipment (UE) is configured with circuitry configured to determine when to offload data traffic of the UE to a wireless local area network (WLAN) access point (AP) in a multi-radio access technology (RAT) communications network based on radio access network (RAN) assistance information communicated via the operations, administration and maintenance (OAM) system. A status is identified of one or more WLAN APs in the multi-RAT communications network using the RAN assistance information. A radio node is selected in the cell of the multi-RAT communications network for communication based on selected criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554403&OS=09554403&RS=09554403
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09554403
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140723
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 859 121 filed Jul. 26 2013.

Data usage and demand for a data delivery capacity of communications networks continue to rise with an increasing popularity of mobile devices such as mobile phones tablet devices laptops and so forth. With the increase in data usage and data delivery capacity demand communications network operators and providers are experiencing cellular network congestion. To meet the increasing demand for bandwidth in communications networks communications network operators and providers may use multiple radio access technologies multi RATs such as cellular networks and wireless networks to transfer data in the communications network.

Wireless networks use an unlicensed portion of the communications spectrum and wireless network nodes can be widely deployed at relatively low cost. With widespread and cost effective deployments of wireless network technologies such as Wi Fi networks available communications network operators and providers can offload data traffic to the wireless networks to decrease cellular network congestion. For example as smartphones are being equipped with both cellular network connecting capabilities and wireless network connecting capabilities communications network operators and providers may offload cellular network data to the wireless networks. Accordingly there is a need for a communications scheme for communications networks that can use cellular networks and wireless networks effectively.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

With an increasing demand for bandwidth of communications networks because of an increased use of mobile devices and expanding data consuming applications of mobile devices communications network operators and providers can use communications schemes with multiple radio access technologies multi RAT such as cellular network technologies and wireless network technologies to transfer data in the communications network.

In one embodiment the cellular network can be configured to operate based on a cellular standard such as the third generation partnership projection 3GPP long term evolution LTE Rel. 8 9 10 11 or 12 standard or the institute of electronic and electrical engineers IEEE 802.16p 802.16n 802.16m 2011 802.16h 2010 802.16j 2009 or 802.16 2009 standard. The wireless network such as a wireless fidelity network Wi Fi can be configured to operate using a standard such as the IEEE 802.11 2012 IEEE 802.11ac or IEEE 802.11ad standard or another type of wireless standard using an unlicensed band of the communications spectrum.

In one communications scheme multi RATs can be used for offloading data traffic from a cellular network to a wireless network e.g. wireless local area network WLAN offloading. WLAN offloading can be used to decrease or mitigate data and bandwidth congestion issues of a communications network. In one WLAN offloading scheme a WLAN can interwork with a wireless wide area network WWAN such as a third generation partnership project 3GPP cellular network at a core network CN level or an evolved packet core EPC level. In another WLAN offloading scheme a WLAN can interwork with a WWAN at the radio access network RAN level such as a RAN2 level.

In one configuration of WLAN offloading a UE centric WLAN offloading scheme can be used. In one embodiment of the UE centric WLAN offloading a UE can select a radio node such as a WLAN node or a WWAN node to direct data traffic of the UE in the communications network. In another embodiment of the UE centric WLAN offloading an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF can select a radio node to direct data traffic of the UE in the communications network.

In one configuration of the UE centric WLAN offloading a RAN can provide RAN assistance information to the UE through broadcast signaling and or dedicated signaling. In one example the UE can use the RAN assistance information WLAN measurements and WLAN information provided by a WLAN and or offload policies to select a WLAN AP to steer data traffic to. In one embodiment the WLAN measurements can include reference signal received power RSRP information and reference signal received quality RSRQ information received by the UE. In another embodiment the WLAN information can include the information such as basis service set BSS load information broadcasted by the WLAN AP. In one example the BSS load information can indicate a load of the WLAN AP. In one embodiment the offload policies can be obtained via the ANDSF via an open mobile alliance device management OMA DM procedure and or via a pre configured offload policy at the UE.

In one example when no WLAN APs are available in a cell of the communications network or all of the WLAN APs in the cell are congested then the eNode B may not broadcast RAN assistance information. In this example when the UE has not received the RAN assistance information the UE can determine not to offload data traffic to a WLAN AP. In one embodiment the UE can offload data traffic to the WLAN AP only when the WLAN AP is available and not congested.

In one configuration of WLAN offloading network centric WLAN offloading can be used. In one embodiment network centric WLAN offloading can be where a network element in the communications network can select a radio node in the communications network for the UE to direct data traffic to. In one embodiment of network centric WLAN offloading an eNode B can use selected WLAN AP information such as an availability status of one or more WLAN access points APs to determine when to offload data traffic of a UE to a WLAN. In another embodiment the WLAN AP information can include information for one or a plurality of the WLAN APs. In another configuration an operations administration and maintenance OAM interface or system can communicate to the eNode B the selected WLAN AP information of the one or more WLAN APs. In one example the eNode B can steer or direct data traffic from the UE to a WLAN AP e.g. WLAN offloading only when an availability status of the WLAN AP is online and non congested e.g. not overloaded .

In one embodiment a UE in a radio resource control RRC connected state or a cell dedicated channel DCH state can be controlled by a network element in the communications network using dedicated traffic steering commands. In one configuration the network element can be an open mobile alliance device manager OMA DM an OAM network manager NM an eNode B or a radio network controller RNC . In another embodiment the dedicated traffic steering commands can be based on WLAN measurements reported by the UE. In one example an eNode B or a RNC can configure UE measurement procedures such as an identity of a target WLAN to be measured in the WLAN measurement report. In another example when there is no network interface between the eNode B or the RNC and the WLAN AP the WLAN identities can be configured in the eNode B or the RNC via an OAM interface. In this example the eNode B or the RNC can select the target WLAN AP based on state or status information of the WLAN AP and or a location of the WLAN AP.

In one embodiment the selected WLAN AP information can be provided to the eNode B via the OAM interface. In another embodiment the selected WLAN AP information can include a WLAN AP identifier such as a service set identification SSID a basic SSID BSSID a roaming consortium list according to an Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11u hotspot 2.0 HS2.0 standard a network address identifier NAI realm list according to an IEEE 802.11u HS2.0 standard or a domain name list using fully qualified domain names FQDN according to an IEEE 802.11u HS2.0 standard media access control MAC specifications and physical layer PHY specifications of the WLAN AP such as MAC specifications and PHY specifications based on an Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11g standard an IEEE 802.11n standard an IEEE 802.11ac standard an IEEE 802.11 2012 standard or an IEEE 802.11ad standard a radio frequency parameter such as a frequency band or a channel band of the WLAN AP used for communicating data state or status information of the WLAN AP such as an online status an offline status coupled to an internet connection status a congested status or a non congested status a location of the WLAN AP or traffic load information or backhaul load information of the WLAN AP such as backhaul load information according to one or more HS2.0 wide access network WAN metrics.

In one embodiment the cellular network can be a third generation 3G cellular network. In one example the OAM interface of the 3G cellular network can communicate an availability status of one or more WLAN APs to a radio network controller RNC . In another example lightweight WLAN APs can be deployed and controlled by an access controller AC . In this example an OAM NM can communicate the availability status of one or more WLAN APs with the AC. In another embodiment the cellular network can be a 3GPP long term evolution LTE cellular network such as 3GPP Rel. 8 Rel. 9 Rel. 10 Rel. 11 or Rel. 12.

In one embodiment for UE centric WLAN offloading and or network centric WLAN offloading an eNode B in the communications network can determine a number of WLAN APs within a cell coverage area of the eNode B and a state or status of each of the WLAN APs. shows a communications network with an eNode B and WLAN APs and WLAN APs in cells and respectively of the eNode B . further shows WLAN APs are underlaid WLAN APs of cell and while WLAN APs are underlaid WLAN APs of cell .

In one embodiment the WLAN DM can receive the WLAN AP information from a plurality of WLAN APs . In one example the WLAN DM can obtain WLAN AP information for a plurality of WLAN APs based on a polling mechanism or trigger based reporting from the WLAN APs . In one example the eNode B NE can request WLAN AP information for neighboring or underlying WLAN APs in the cell of the communications network from the NM . The eNode B NE can communicate the request to the NM via the WWAN DM . In one embodiment the eNode B NE can determine a frequency or a condition to initiate the request for the WLAN AP information from the NM . In one example when the eNode B NE is overloaded the eNode B NE can request WLAN AP information from the WLAN DM . In this example when the eNode B NE receives the WLAN AP information the eNode B NE can provide the WLAN AP information to a UE to assist the UE in selecting a WLAN AP for offloading. In one configuration the eNode B NE can request WLAN AP information that is associated with a WLAN AP in a particular location or cell of the communications network.

In one configuration an eNode B NE can select a WLAN AP for a UE to offload data traffic to. In one embodiment the eNode B NE can request WLAN AP information for a plurality of WLAN APs and use the WLAN AP information to select the WLAN AP to offload the data traffic. In another embodiment the WLAN AP information sent to each eNode B NE can be based on a location of the eNode B NE and or a coverage area of the eNode B NE . In another embodiment information can be communicated between the WWAN DM and the NM or the WLAN DM and the NM using a type 2 interface. In another embodiment information can be communicated between the WWAN DM and the eNode B NE or the WLAN DM and the WLAN AP using a type 1 interface.

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to select a radio node in a cell of a multiple radio access technology multi RAT communications network as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to determine when to offload data traffic of the UE to a wireless local area network WLAN access point AP in the multi RAT communications network based on radio access network RAN assistance information communicated via the operations administration and maintenance OAM system as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to identify a status of one or more WLAN APs in the multi RAT communications network using the RAN assistance information as in block . The circuitry can be further configured select a radio node in the cell of the multi RAT communications network for communication based on select criteria as in block .

In one embodiment the radio node can be a wireless wide area network WWAN node or a WLAN AP. In another embodiment the select criteria can be a status of the one or more WLAN APs. In another embodiment the OAM system includes at least one of a WLAN domain manager DM element manager EM a WLAN network manager NM and a WWAN DM EM.

In one embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to select a WLAN AP of the one or more WLAN APs to offload data traffic based at least in part on the status of the one or more WLAN APs. In another embodiment the status of the one or more WLAN APs can be an online status an offline status coupled to an internet connection status a congested status or a non congested status. In another embodiment the online status of the WLAN AP can indicate that the WLAN AP is actively transmitting data or actively receiving data and the offline status of the WLAN AP can indicate that the WLAN AP is not actively transmitting data or not actively receiving data. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to determine to offload data traffic of the UE to a selected WLAN AP when the status of the one or more WLAN APs is the online status and the non congested status. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to direct data traffic of the UE to a wireless wide area network WWAN node when the status of the one or more WLAN APs is the offline status or the congested status when no WLAN APs are located in the cell of the communications network or when the UE has not received RAN assistance information from a RAN. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to select a WLAN AP of the one or more WLAN APs to offload data traffic based at least in part on using the RAN assistance information. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to receive RAN assistance information from a RAN via broadcast signaling or dedicated signaling. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to receive WLAN measurements and WLAN information from the one or more WLAN APs obtain an offload policy from an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF module via an open mobile alliance device management OMA DM procedure or pre configured at the UE and select a WLAN AP of the one or more WLAN APs to offload data traffic based at least in part on the WLAN measurements WLAN information and the offload policy.

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of an evolved node B eNode B operable to determine when a user equipment UE offloads data traffic to a wireless local area network WLAN node in a cell of a communications network as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to receive from a WLAN access point AP via a network manager NM of the communications network a WLAN AP status report indicating a status of one or more WLAN APs in the cell as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to communicate to the UE measurement control information identifying a target WLAN AP based on the status of the one or more WLAN APs for the UE to take selected measurements of the targeted WLAN AP as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to receive from the UE a measurement report of the targeted WLAN AP that includes information of the selected measurements as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to communicate a steering command to the UE wherein the steering command indicates a radio node for the UE to direct selected data traffic to as in block .

In one embodiment the radio node can be a wireless wide area network WWAN node or a WLAN AP. In another embodiment the steering command can be based on the measurement report from the UE. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to receive WLAN AP information from an operations administration and maintenance OAM interface and determine an availability of one or more WLAN APs using the WLAN AP information of each of the one or more WLAN APs.

In one embodiment the WLAN AP information includes an identifier of the WLAN AP media access control MAC specifications and physical layer PHY specifications of the WLAN AP a radio frequency parameter of the WLAN AP state information of the WLAN AP a location of the WLAN AP or traffic load information of the WLAN AP. In another embodiment the identifier of the WLAN AP can be a service set identification SSID a basic SSID BSSID a roaming consortium list according to an Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11u hotspot 2.0 HS2.0 standard a network address identifier NAI realm list according to an IEEE 802.11u HS2.0 standard or a domain name list using fully qualified domain names FQDN according to an IEEE 802.11u HS2.0 standard. In another embodiment the radio frequency parameter of the WLAN AP can be a frequency band or a channel band of the WLAN AP used for communicating data. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to determine a number of WLAN APs within the cell of a communications network and compile a list of WLAN APs available for offloading in the cell of the communications network

In one embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to remove a selected WLAN AP from the list of available WLAN APs when the status of the selected WLAN AP changes to an offline status remove the selected WLAN AP from the list of available WLAN APs when the status of the selected WLAN AP changes to a congested status add a WLAN AP to the list of available WLAN APs when the status of the selected WLAN AP changes to an online status and add a WLAN AP to the list of available WLAN APs when the status of the selected WLAN AP changes to a non congested status. In another embodiment the circuitry can be further configured to identify the targeted WLAN AP for the UE to take selected measurements based on a status of the one or more WLAN APs.

Another example provides functionality of product including a non transitory storage medium having stored thereon instructions that are adapted to be executed to implement a method of selecting a wireless local access network WLAN access point AP in a communications network to offload data traffic of a user equipment UE as in the flow chart in . The instructions of the product can be implemented as a method or as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can comprise receiving at the UE measurement control information from an evolved node B eNode B identifying a target WLAN AP for the UE to take selected measurements of the target WLAN AP as in block . The method can further comprise communicating from the UE a measurement report to the eNode B of the targeted WLAN AP that includes information of the selected measurements as in block . The method can further comprise receiving at the UE data traffic steering command information from the eNode B wherein the data traffic steering command information indicates a WLAN AP for the UE to direct data traffic to as in block .

In one embodiment the method can further comprise communicating to the eNode B an acknowledgement message from the UE indicating the UE has received a steering command from the eNode B. In another embodiment the data traffic steering command information for a UE can be in a radio resource control RRC connected state or a cell dedicated channel DCH state and the UE can be controlled by a network element in the communications network using dedicated traffic steering commands. In another embodiment the network element can be an open mobile alliance device manager OMA DM an operations administration and maintenance OAM network manager NM an eNode B or a radio network controller RNC . In another embodiment the dedicated traffic steering commands can be based on the selected measurements of the WLAN AP. In another embodiment the method can further comprise the UE receiving from the eNode B WLAN AP identification ID information identifying a selected WLAN AP based on the measurement control information to take selected measurements of and the UE taking the selected measurements of the selected WLAN AP for the measurement report. In another embodiment the target WLAN AP can be identified based on a status of one or more WLAN APs.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements can be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station can also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials can be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention can be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics can be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

