---

title: Managing links and invitations to shared content
abstract: A sharer account of a content management system may share a link to a non-synchronized (i.e., read-only) version of a content item, with a recipient that already has access to a synchronized (i.e., read-write) version of the content item. This can possibly be due to the sharer forgetting that the recipient already has access to the synchronized version, the sharer finding it more convenient to share the link, and/or due to various other reasons. The present disclosure can determine that the recipient, with whom the link is shared, already has access to the synchronized version of the shared content item. The recipient can be notified that he already has access to the synchronized version and can be provided with an option to access the synchronized version (which can be stored locally at the recipient's device and/or stored online at the recipient's account with the content management system).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461949&OS=09461949&RS=09461949
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09461949
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
The present technology pertains to shared content and more specifically pertains to directing a user to a shared content item.

Online content storage is becoming more popular. People frequently store access or otherwise interact with content stored at online content management systems. Documents pictures music videos directories folders and other types of content items can be stored at online content management systems to be accessed by users of the online content management systems. In some cases a content item can be shared by one user with another user s via an online content management system.

In one example a first entity can store a collection s of content items at the first entity s account with an online content management system. In other words the first entity can be the owner of the collection s of content items. In some embodiments a collection of content items can include but is not limited to a file a directory a document within a directory a photo album a media playlist data etc. In this example the first entity i.e. owner can decide to share a content item with one or more other entities also known as recipients via the online content management system. As such the first entity can also be known as a sharer of the content item. The recipients can choose whether or not to accept the sharing of the content item.

In some cases if the recipients accept the sharing of the content item then the recipients can download the content item via the online content management system and the content item can be synchronized among the sharer e.g. owner and recipient accounts also collectively known as member accounts of the shared content item . As such if any one of the sharer and or the recipients i.e. members modifies the shared synchronized content item then the modification s made to the shared synchronized content item will be updated i.e. synchronized reflected applied effected etc. at each of the sharer account and or the recipient accounts.

In some instances a sharer account can share a content item to one or more recipient accounts. Once a recipient account accepts the share invitation the recipient account becomes a member for the shared content. Accepting the share invitation also causes the shared content item to be synchronized among the sharer and recipient accounts. In other words the share of the synchronized content item can correspond to a read write share which can allow the sharer account as well as the recipient accounts to read write edit update modify etc. the content item. The edits updates modifications etc. can be synchronized e.g. take place be updated be reflected etc. with respect to the sharer account and the recipient accounts.

Nevertheless for various reasons a first member account such as the sharer account may subsequently share a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized version of the content item to the other member accounts which can be performed via a shared link . In some cases a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized version of the content item can refer to a version of the content item that is read only with respect to one or more recipients. In other words if the sharer shares a non synchronized version of the content item any modifications a recipient makes to the non synchronized version will not get synchronized e.g. take place be updated be reflected etc. with respect to the original content item that was shared by the sharer. Instead a modification edit update etc. to the non synchronized version of the content item made by a recipient can be saved locally or to the recipient s account with the online content management system but the modification edit update etc. will not take place be reflected etc. with respect to the other users associated with the share of the non synchronized version. It follows that a sharing of the non synchronized version i.e. non synchronized share of the content item can also be referred to as a sharing of the read only version of the content item i.e. read only share .

In one example a first member account may have forgotten that a synchronized version of a content item has already been shared with the other member accounts. In another example it may have been more convenient for the first member account to share the non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of the content item to the other member accounts. In a further example the first member account may have wanted to use the sharing of the non synchronized version as a reminder notification or information provider to the other member accounts.

However a share invitation e.g. link share invitation to the other member accounts regarding the non synchronized version of the content item may cause inconvenience or other concerns to the other member accounts since the synchronized version of the content item has already been shared with them. For example the other members can end up downloading multiple copies or versions of the content item. In another example the other members can make edits to the non synchronized version but the edits cannot be updated or synchronized e.g. with respect to the original sharer and or the other members . In a further example the other members may have to recognize that they already have access to the synchronized version and thus may need to manually navigate to the location at which the synchronized version is stored. These and other concerns can create challenges for the overall user experience associated with sharing content via online content management systems.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

Disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for directing a user account to shared content. In some embodiments a user of the online content management system can store data such as collections of content items e.g. directories files albums playlists etc. at the online content management system. The user can be considered the owner of the collections of content items. The owner can share one or more of his content items with one or more other users such that the shared content items can be synchronized among the owner and the other users with whom the content items are shared. In this case it follows that the owner can also be known as the sharer and the one or more other users can also be known as the recipients. The sharer and the recipients can also be collectively known as members of the shared content items.

In one example a content item associated with a content management system account of a sharer can be shared with a content management system account of a recipient such that the content item is synchronized at the sharer s account and at the recipient s account i.e. at all accounts of members of the shared and synchronized content item . In other words the member accounts can have access to a synchronized version of the shared content item. Accordingly if one member account makes a modification to the synchronized version of the shared content item then the modification will be applied e.g. updated reflected implemented etc. to the synchronized version of the content item at each of the other member accounts.

Continuing with the example in some cases a sharer may share a link to a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of the content item to some recipient accounts that already have access to the synchronized version i.e. to some member accounts . This can be due to the sharer forgetting that the recipients are already members of the shared content item the sharer finding it convenient to share the link and or due to various other reasons. Accordingly various embodiments of the present disclosure can detect that a recipient with whom the link is shared is already a member of the shared content item. Thus the recipient can be notified that he already has access to the synchronized version of the content item. Moreover in some embodiments an option to access the synchronized version which can be stored locally at the recipient s device and or stored online at the recipient s account with the content management system can be provided to the recipient.

In some embodiments the content management system can process the shared link and obtain information about the content item accessible via the link. The obtained information about the content item can include identities of member accounts if any that already have been granted access to the content item. The content management system can determine whether the recipient of the link share invitation is already a member of the content item i.e. whether a synchronized version of the content item has already been shared with the recipient . If so then the content management system can notify the recipient that he already has access to the synchronized version of the content item. Also in some instances the system can provide the recipient with an option to navigate to or otherwise access the synchronized version of the content item.

It is important to note that the various embodiments and or examples discussed herein are for illustrative purposes only. A person having ordinary skill in the art would recognize various other manners or approaches that can be utilized consistent with the scope of the present disclosure. Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The disclosed technology addresses the need in the art for processing shared content. In some embodiments a sharer account of a content management system may share a link to a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of a content item with a recipient account that already has access to a synchronized version of the content item. This can possibly be due to the sharer forgetting that the recipient account already has access to the synchronized version the sharer finding it more convenient to share the link and or due to various other reasons. The present disclosure can determine that the recipient with whom the link is shared already has access to the synchronized version of the shared content item. The recipient can be notified that he already has access to the synchronized version and can be provided with an option to access the synchronized version which can be stored locally at the recipient s device and or stored online at the recipient s account with the content management system .

With respect to implementing various embodiments of the disclosed technology an exemplary system configuration is shown in wherein electronic devices communicate via a network for purposes of exchanging content and other data. The system can be configured for use on a wide area network such as that illustrated in . However the present principles are applicable to a wide variety of network configurations that facilitate the intercommunication of electronic devices. For example each of the components of system in can be implemented in a localized or distributed fashion in a network.

In system a user can interact with content management system through client devices . . . collectively connected to network by direct and or indirect communication. Content management system can support connections from a variety of different client devices such as desktop computers mobile computers mobile communications devices e.g. mobile phones smart phones tablets smart televisions set top boxes and or any other network enabled computing devices. Client devices can be of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. Furthermore content management system can concurrently accept connections from and interact with multiple client devices .

A user can interact with content management system via a client side application installed on client device . In some embodiments the client side application can include a content management system specific component. For example the component can be a stand alone application one or more application plug ins and or a browser extension. However the user can also interact with content management system via a third party application such as a web browser that resides on client device and is configured to communicate with content management system . In either case the client side application can present a user interface UI for the user to interact with content management system . For example the user can interact with the content management system via a client side application integrated with the file system or via a webpage displayed using a web browser application.

Content management system can make it possible for a user to store content as well as perform a variety of content management tasks such as retrieve modify browse and or share the content. Furthermore content management system can make it possible for a user to access the content from multiple client devices . For example client device can upload content to content management system via network . The content can later be retrieved from content management system using the same client device or some other client device .

To facilitate the various content management services a user can create an account with content management system . The account information can be maintained in user account database . User account database can store profile information for registered users. In some cases the only personal information in the user profile can be a username and or email address. However content management system can also be configured to accept additional user information.

User account database can also include account management information such as account type e.g. free or paid usage information e.g. file edit history maximum storage space authorized storage space used content storage locations security settings personal configuration settings content sharing data etc. Account management module can be configured to update and or obtain user account details in user account database . The account management module can be configured to interact with any number of other modules in content management system .

An account can be used to store content such as digital data documents text files audio files video files etc. from one or more client devices authorized on the account. The content can also include folders or other mechanisms of grouping content items together with different behaviors such as collections playlists albums etc. For example an account can include a public folder that is accessible to any user. The public folder can be assigned a web accessible address. A link to the web accessible address can be used to access the contents of the public folder. In another example an account can include a photos folder that is intended for photos and that provides specific attributes and actions tailored for photos an audio folder that provides the ability to play back audio files and perform other audio related actions or other special purpose folders. An account can also include shared folders or group folders that are linked with and available to multiple user accounts. The permissions for multiple users may be different for a shared folder.

The content can be stored in content storage . Content storage can be a storage device multiple storage devices or a server. Alternatively content storage can be a cloud storage provider or network storage accessible via one or more communications networks. Content management system can hide the complexity and details from client devices so that client devices do not need to know exactly where the content items are being stored by content management system . In one variation content management system can store the content items in the same folder hierarchy as they appear on client device . However content management system can store the content items in its own order arrangement or hierarchy. Content management system can store the content items in a network accessible storage SAN device in a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID etc. Content storage can store content items using one or more partition types such as FAT FAT32 NTFS EXT2 EXT3 EXT4 ReiserFS BTRFS HFS HFS and so forth.

Content storage can also store metadata describing content items content item types and the relationship of content items to various accounts folders or groups. The metadata for a content item can be stored as part of the content item or can be stored separately. In one variation each content item stored in content storage can be assigned a system wide unique identifier.

Content storage can decrease the amount of storage space required by identifying duplicate files or duplicate segments of files. Instead of storing multiple copies content storage can store a single copy and then use a pointer or other mechanism to link the duplicates to the single copy. Similarly content storage can store files more efficiently as well as provide the ability to undo operations by using a file version control that tracks changes to files different versions of files including diverging version trees and a change history. The change history can include a set of changes that when applied to the original file version produce the changed file version.

Content management system can be configured to support automatic synchronization of content from one or more client devices . The synchronization can be platform agnostic. That is the content can be synchronized across multiple client devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. For example client device can include client software which synchronizes via a synchronization module at content management system content in client device s file system with the content in an associated user account. In some cases the client software can synchronize any changes to content in a designated folder and its sub folders such as new deleted modified copied or moved files or folders. The client software can be a separate software application can integrate with an existing content management application in the operating system or some combination thereof. In one example of client software that integrates with an existing content management application a user can manipulate content directly in a local folder while a background process monitors the local folder for changes and synchronizes those changes to content management system . Conversely the background process can identify content that has been updated at content management system and synchronize those changes to the local folder. The client software can provide notifications of synchronization operations and can provide indications of content statuses directly within the content management application. Sometimes client device may not have a network connection available. In this scenario the client software can monitor the linked folder for file changes and queue those changes for later synchronization to content management system when a network connection is available. Similarly a user can manually stop or pause synchronization with content management system .

A user can also view or manipulate content via a web interface generated and served by user interface module . For example the user can navigate in a web browser to a web address provided by content management system . Changes or updates to content in the content storage made through the web interface such as uploading a new version of a file can be propagated back to other client devices associated with the user s account. For example multiple client devices each with their own client software can be associated with a single account and files in the account can be synchronized between each of the multiple client devices .

Content management system can include a communications interface for interfacing with various client devices and can interact with other content and or service providers . . . collectively via an Application Programming Interface API . Certain software applications can access content storage via an API on behalf of a user. For example a software package such as an app on a smartphone or tablet computing device can programmatically make calls directly to content management system when a user provides credentials to read write create delete share or otherwise manipulate content. Similarly the API can allow users to access all or part of content storage through a web site.

Content management system can also include authenticator module which can verify user credentials security tokens API calls specific client devices and so forth to ensure only authorized clients and users can access files. Further content management system can include analytics module module that can track and report on aggregate file operations user actions network usage total storage space used as well as other technology usage or business metrics. A privacy and or security policy can prevent unauthorized access to user data stored with content management system .

Content management system can include sharing module for managing sharing content publicly or privately. Sharing content publicly can include making the content item accessible from any computing device in network communication with content management system . Sharing content privately can include linking a content item in content storage with two or more user accounts so that each user account has access to the content item. The sharing can be performed in a platform agnostic manner. That is the content can be shared across multiple client devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. The content can also be shared across varying types of user accounts.

In some embodiments content management system can be configured to maintain a content directory identifying the location of each content item in content storage . The content directory can include a unique content entry for each content item stored in the content storage.

A content entry can include a content path that can be used to identify the location of the content item in a content management system. For example the content path can include the name of the content item and a folder hierarchy associated with the content item. For example the content path can include a folder or path of folders in which the content item is placed as well as the name of the content item. Content management system can use the content path to present the content items in the appropriate folder hierarchy.

A content entry can also include a content pointer that identifies the location of the content item in content storage . For example the content pointer can include the exact storage address of the content item in memory. In some embodiments the content pointer can point to multiple locations each of which contains a portion of the content item.

In addition to a content path and content pointer a content entry can also include a user account identifier that identifies the user account that has access to the content item. In some embodiments multiple user account identifiers can be associated with a single content entry indicating that the content item has shared access by the multiple user accounts.

To share a content item privately sharing module can be configured to add a user account identifier to the content entry associated with the content item thus granting the added user account access to the content item. Sharing module can also be configured to remove user account identifiers from a content entry to restrict a user account s access to the content item.

To share content publicly sharing module can be configured to generate a custom network address such as a uniform resource locator URL which allows any web browser to access the content in content management system without any authentication. To accomplish this sharing module can be configured to include content identification data in the generated URL which can later be used to properly identify and return the requested content item. For example sharing module can be configured to include the user account identifier and the content path in the generated URL. Upon selection of the URL the content identification data included in the URL can be sent to content management system which can use the received content identification data to identify the appropriate content entry and return the content item associated with the content entry.

In addition to generating the URL sharing module can also be configured to record that a URL to the content item has been created. In some embodiments the content entry associated with a content item can include a URL flag indicating whether a URL to the content item has been created. For example the URL flag can be a Boolean value initially set to 0 or false to indicate that a URL to the content item has not been created. Sharing module can be configured to change the value of the flag to 1 or true after generating a URL to the content item.

In some embodiments sharing module can also be configured to deactivate a generated URL. For example each content entry can also include a URL active flag indicating whether the content should be returned in response to a request from the generated URL. For example sharing module can be configured to only return a content item requested by a generated link if the URL active flag is set to 1 or true. Thus access to a content item for which a URL has been generated can be easily restricted by changing the value of the URL active flag. This allows a user to restrict access to the shared content item without having to move the content item or delete the generated URL. Likewise sharing module can reactivate the URL by again changing the value of the URL active flag to 1 or true. A user can thus easily restore access to the content item without the need to generate a new URL.

While content management system is presented with specific components it should be understood by one skilled in the art that the architectural configuration of system is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations with more or less components are also possible.

With reference now to shows an exemplary system embodiment for directing to shared content. Exemplary system embodiment can include a content management system e.g. content management system in . Content management system can be utilized to store data representing a content item such as content item J . Content item J can be for example a file a directory an album a playlist and or other data.

In some cases content item J can be a shared content item. Additional information related to content item J such as metadata about the sharing of content item J can be stored at content management system . Information can indicate one or more member accounts that have access e.g. read write access to a shared synchronized version of content item J . In one example additional information can indicate that the one or more member accounts can include User A User B and User C as shown in .

In the example User A can be the owner of content item J . User A can have created content item J stored content item J locally at User A s computing device s and uploaded content item J to User A s account at content management system . Moreover in this example User A can be a sharer of content item J . Read write access to content item J can be shared by User A to User B and User C via content management system such that content item J can be synchronized among the content management system accounts of User A User B and User C i.e. the member accounts . Further a synchronized version of content item J can be stored locally at User A s computing device s User B s computing device s and User C s computing device s . A modification made to the synchronized version of content item J by one of the member accounts can be updated i.e. applied implemented reflected etc. at each of the other member accounts and member account devices.

As shown in User A can share a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of content item J for example via a link. User A can utilize content management system to obtain a link e.g. URL address QR code etc. to the non synchronized version of content item J and provide the link to one or more recipient accounts e.g. User B User C and User D . In some cases at least some of the recipient accounts can be member accounts that already have access to the synchronized version of content item J . This can be due to the sharer forgetting that he previously shared the synchronized version of the content item to the member accounts already the sharer finding it convenient to share the link and or various other reasons. However receiving a share invitation to the non synchronized version of shared content can cause confusion inconvenience or other concerns for a member account that already has access to the synchronized version of the shared content.

Continuing the example of content management system can make a determination that at least some of the recipient accounts User B and User C of the shared link already have access to the synchronized version of content item J whereas User D does not have access to the synchronized version of content item J . In some embodiments content management system can analyze information relating to shared content item J . Information can be used to identify one or more member accounts e.g. User A User B User C of shared content item J . The member accounts can already have access to the shared synchronized version of content item J .

Accordingly content management system can direct User B to a location associated with User B at which the synchronized version of content item J is stored and can direct User C to a location associated with User C at which the synchronized version of content item J is stored. In one example if User B is running an application i.e. client application operable with content management system then the application can communicate with the operating system of User B s computing device to direct User B to a local directory on his computing device where the synchronized version of content item J is stored. In another example if User C is using a browsing application to access a web interface of content management system then the web interface can direct User C to an online directory at User C s content management system account where the synchronized version of content item J is stored.

In contrast content management system can enable the link to be provided to User D since User D is not associated with a member account i.e. does not have access to the synchronized version of content item J . User D can thus access e.g. download the non synchronized version i.e. content item J of content item J. If a member account e.g. User A User B User C of shared synchronized content item J makes a modification to the shared synchronized version of content item J then the modification will be applied to content item J at the other member accounts but the modification will not be applied to User D s non synchronized version of content item J. Similarly if User D makes a modification to his non synchronized version of content item J the modification will not be applied to the member accounts synchronized version of content item J .

Turning now to an exemplary client application for directing a user account to shared content is shown. In the example of there can be one or more interfaces such as desktop and or task bar provided by an operating system of a computing device. In this example the computing device such as a desktop or notebook computer can be associated with a user such as User B. The computing device can be running an application operable and or compatible with a content management system e.g. in . In the application can be represented by icon displayed in task bar . In some embodiments the application i.e. client application desktop application etc. can be configured to work in conjunction with the content management system to synchronize User B s data stored locally at the computing device with data stored at User B s account at the content management system. As such User B s local collections of content items can be synchronized with those at his account at the content management system and vice versa.

In the example of User A can invite User B to a shared content item e.g. Content Item J . In this example User A can initiate a share invitation via the content management system. The share invitation can include an electronic reference such as a link e.g. URL address QR code etc. that provides access to a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of the shared content item. Subsequent to User A s initiation of the share invitation the content management system can send a communication to User B via the client application running on the computing device of User B. Based on the communication the client application can present notification or another suitable indicator to User B. For example notification can include a message specifying that User A has shared a link to access Content Item J with User B.

However the shared link is configured to provide access to the non synchronized version of the content item even though User B may already have access to the synchronized version of the content item. In this example User A can have previously shared the synchronized version of Content Item J with User B such that User B is already a member of shared synchronized Content Item J. Yet when User B receives and accesses the link shared by User A User B will be directed to the non synchronized version of Content Item J. In some cases User B can download the non synchronized version of Content Item J while also having the synchronized version. This can cause confusion inconvenience and or other concerns.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can enable the content management system to detect that User B already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J. In some embodiments the content management system can detect that User B already has access based on obtaining data e.g. metadata about shared Content Item J. The data can indicate identifications of one or more user accounts that are members of shared Content Item J. In some embodiments the identifications of the one or more user accounts can correspond to namespace data of the one or more user accounts. In this example User A can be the owner of Content Item J and can have already shared Content Item J with User B such that the member accounts can include the accounts associated with User A and User B.

Having determined that User B already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J the client application for the content management system can notify User B that he already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J. Moreover in some embodiments the client application can direct User B to a location at which the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored. In the example of the client application can provide option to open a file browsing application and navigate to a location on User B s computing device where the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored.

In addition to notification of window of can further provide information about the shared link. Moreover the client application can notify User B that he already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J. The synchronized version of Content Item J can be stored locally at User B s computing device and or at User B s account with the content management system.

As shown in the client application can provide option to access the synchronized version of Content Item J option to access the link share invitation or option to decline the link share invitation. In some cases option to access the synchronized version of Content Item J can correspond to navigating to a directory e.g. local directory at the computing device online directory at the content management system etc. where the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored. In some cases option for accessing the link share invitation can correspond to opening a web browsing application and navigating to a web location e.g. web address web page etc. where the link share invitation can be viewed or otherwise interacted with by User B. In some cases option to decline the link share invitation can correspond to ignoring the share invitation.

In some embodiments the client application can be running while the computing device is in an active state e.g. powered on logged in not in sleep mode not in hibernation mode etc. and capable of communicating with the content management system e.g. connect to a network such as the Internet . As such notifications can be provided by the client application in real time relative to i.e. within an allowable time period from when User A initiates the share invitation via the content management system.

As previously discussed in response to User A initiating the link share invitation to User B the content management system can obtain information relating to the subject of the link share invitation Content Item J. The information obtained relating to Content Item J can facilitate in identifying one or more member accounts of Content Item J i.e. accounts that already have access to the shared synchronized Content Item J . The content management system can thus determine that User B already has been granted access to the shared synchronized Content Item J. Via the web interface the content management system can notify User B that he already has access to the shared synchronized version of Content Item J.

As shown in the web interface can also provide option to access the synchronized version of Content Item J option to access the link share invitation or option to decline the link share invitation. In option for accessing the synchronized version of Content Item J can correspond for example to navigating to an online directory at User B s content management system account where the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored. Also for example option to access the link share invitation can correspond to navigating to a web location where the link share invitation can be viewed or otherwise interacted with by User B. Moreover option to decline the link share invitation can for example correspond to ignoring the link share invitation.

In some embodiments notification can provide information about the shared link. Information can indicate to User B that he already is a member of the share content item i.e. that he already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J . Moreover information can provide option for User B to access the synchronized version of Content Item J. In some cases selecting option can trigger a web browsing application to navigate to an online directory of User B s account at the content management system where the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored. In some cases if the synchronized version of Content Item J is stored locally at the device then selecting option can trigger a file browsing application to navigate to the local directory on the device where the synchronized Content Item J is stored.

Referring now to and there can be an exemplary computing device embodiment used to direct a user account to shared content. Exemplary computing device embodiment in and can be associated with User B and can implement an app configured to work with the content management system. In response to User A initiating a link share invitation for Content Item J to User B the app installed on device can provide notification specifying that User A has made the link share invitation to User B. The link share invitation can provide access to a non synchronized version of Content Item J. For example User B can trigger e.g. click on tap on hover over etc. the link to enable downloading of the non synchronized version of Content Item J.

Similar to previous discussions in some embodiments information about the shared link for Content Item J need not be presented with notification . Instead User B can interact with notification to cause the app to display interface of . Interface can correspond to a graphical user interface GUI for the app. Interface can provide information which can include an indication that User B already has access to the synchronized version of Content Item J. Moreover interface can provide an option to access the synchronized version as well as options to access or decline the link share invitation.

Turning now to shows an exemplary communication interface at which a user account can be directed to shared content. Exemplary interface can include an interface for an electronic mailing i.e. email system. In the example of User B can sign into User B s account with the email system. The email system can allow User B to send and or receive email messages.

In one example User A of an online content management system e.g. content management system in can send a link share invitation for Content Item J to User B via the online content management system. In other words User A can make a request to the online content management system to share with User B a link to a non synchronized i.e. unsynchronized read only version of Content Item J. The online content management system can receive User A s request and cause an email message to be sent to an email account associated with User B s content management system account. As shown in the example of email message can be sent by the content management system and received by User B s email account. In the example email message can include message content .

Continuing with the example of email message content can include shared link in case User B indeed wants to access e.g. download the non synchronized version of Content Item J. Additionally email message content can also include message notifying User B that he already has access to a shared and synchronized version of Content Item J. Further option can be provided to enable User B to access the shared and synchronized version of Content Item J.

Step can include identifying one or more member accounts that have been granted access to a synchronized version of the content item. In some embodiments the one or more member accounts access can be granted by the sharer account. Also the synchronized version can provide the one or more member accounts with read and write access to the content item. Continuing with exemplary method embodiment step can involve determining that the recipient account is included in the one or more member accounts. Then exemplary method embodiment can send to the recipient account information indicating that the recipient account already has access to the synchronized version of the content item at step . Then at step exemplary method can provide an option to access the synchronized version of the content item.

Continuing with exemplary method it can be determined that the recipient account is included in the one or more member accounts at step . Then at step method can send to the recipient account information indicating that the recipient account already has access to the synchronized version of the content item.

Step can include receiving information indicating that a computing system has access to a synchronized version of the content item locally stored. Then method can provide information indicating that the sharer account has attempted to share the content item at step . Moreover in some case the information can indicate that the synchronized version of the content item is accessible locally at the computing system.

As discussed above the present technology can provide access to the synchronized version of the content item. In some embodiments when the option is selected there can be a navigation to a location where the synchronized version of the content item is stored. Moreover in some cases an appearance of the synchronized version of the content item at the location can be emphasized e.g. highlighted .

In some embodiments various embodiments can also prompt a recipient account to provide identification data e.g. account credentials username passcode etc. for logging into the content management system. In some instances prompting the recipient account can be performed prior to determining that the recipient account is included in the one or more member accounts.

Furthermore in some embodiments the sharer account that initiated the share invitation can receive a notification indicating that the recipient account already has access to the synchronized version of the content item.

With reference now to and and show exemplary possible system embodiments. The more appropriate embodiment will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when practicing the present technology. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will also readily appreciate that other system embodiments are possible.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device can represent any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems can enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface can generally govern and manage the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

Storage device is a non volatile memory and can be a hard disk or other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM and hybrids thereof.

The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device can be connected to the system bus . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function can include the software component stored in a computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function.

Chipset can also interface with one or more communication interfaces that can have different physical interfaces. Such communication interfaces can include interfaces for wired and wireless local area networks for broadband wireless networks as well as personal area networks. Some applications of the methods for generating displaying and using the GUI disclosed herein can include receiving ordered datasets over the physical interface or be generated by the machine itself by processor analyzing data stored in storage or . Further the machine can receive inputs from a user via user interface components and execute appropriate functions such as browsing functions by interpreting these inputs using processor .

It can be appreciated that exemplary systems and can have more than one processor or be part of a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.

For clarity of explanation in some instances the present technology may be presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks comprising devices device components steps or routines in a method embodied in software or combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the computer readable storage devices mediums and memories can include a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like. However when mentioned non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

Methods according to the above described examples can be implemented using computer executable instructions that are stored or otherwise available from computer readable media. Such instructions can comprise for example instructions and data which cause or otherwise configure a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Portions of computer resources used can be accessible over a network. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language firmware or source code. Examples of computer readable media that may be used to store instructions information used and or information created during methods according to described examples include magnetic or optical disks flash memory USB devices provided with non volatile memory networked storage devices and so on.

Devices implementing methods according to these disclosures can comprise hardware firmware and or software and can take any of a variety of form factors. Typical examples of such form factors include laptops smart phones small form factor personal computers personal digital assistants and so on. Functionality described herein also can be embodied in peripherals or add in cards. Such functionality can also be implemented on a circuit board among different chips or different processes executing in a single device by way of further example.

The instructions media for conveying such instructions computing resources for executing them and other structures for supporting such computing resources are means for providing the functions described in these disclosures.

Although a variety of examples and other information was used to explain aspects within the scope of the appended claims no limitation of the claims should be implied based on particular features or arrangements in such examples as one of ordinary skill would be able to use these examples to derive a wide variety of implementations. Further and although some subject matter may have been described in language specific to examples of structural features and or method steps it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to these described features or acts. For example such functionality can be distributed differently or performed in components other than those identified herein. Rather the described features and steps are disclosed as examples of components of systems and methods within the scope of the appended claims.

