---

title: User customized greeting card design system with portal for crowd-sourced artwork
abstract: The invention relates to systems and methods of providing a user customized card design system with a portal used to receive crowd-sourced artwork that users may select to include in customized greeting cards, games for bonuses that can be applied to customized greeting cards, and greeting card kiosks that may have different portions each having a dedicated functionality. The crowd-sourced content items may include items that are provided by various entities so that others may use the items in their own greeting cards. The crowd-sourced content items may be localized such that crowd-sourced content items within a proximity of a given location may be used to customize greeting cards at or in association with the given location. The bonuses may be won during gameplay and may include free or discounted customized greeting cards, free or discounted customization options, and/or other value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09324101&OS=09324101&RS=09324101
owner: Card Isle Corporation
number: 09324101
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
The invention relates to systems and methods of providing a user customized card design system with a portal used to receive crowd sourced artwork that users may select to include in customized greeting cards providing games for bonuses that can be applied to customized greeting cards and providing greeting card kiosks that may have different portions each having a dedicated functionality.

Greeting card publishers provide a wide array of greeting cards that are available at retail locations. However oftentimes it may be difficult for a customer to find the perfect greeting card for a given occasion and or recipient. Conventional greeting card customization systems such as online electronic greeting card systems are typically limited by the types of customizations that are available do not provide a high quality print and or fail to engage users in the greeting card customization process. These and other drawbacks exist.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks relates to systems and methods of providing a user customized card design system with a portal used to receive crowd sourced artwork that users may select to include in customized greeting cards providing games for bonuses that can be applied to customized greeting cards and providing greeting card kiosks that may have different portions each having a dedicated functionality. The system may receive and process one or more greeting card design parameters used to create a custom greeting card. The greeting card design parameters may include a specification of one or more crowd sourced content items a specification of one or more customization options and or other information used to generate a custom greeting card.

The crowd sourced content items may include items that are provided by various entities so that others may use the crowd sourced content items in their own greeting cards. The crowd sourced content items may be localized. For example and without limitation the system may provide photographs taken by other users of local landmarks artwork sourced from local artists and or other localized crowd sourced content items.

The system may provide one or more games via one or more components described herein that allow the user to win a bonus that can be used in association with a greeting card customization. For example the bonus may include a discounted price off of a customized greeting card a discounted or free crowd sourced content item a discounted or free customization option e.g. a special font paper quality print resolution etc. and or other benefit. The bonus may be associated with a crowd sourced content item or a customization option that is provided only by winning the bonus e.g. is not otherwise available for selection . The game may be free to play such that the bonus may be achieved and applicable to a greeting card customization regardless of whether the user actually purchases a customized greeting card or not.

Users may specify the one or more greeting card design parameters in various ways. For example the system may include a greeting card kiosk that provides a user interface used to specify greeting card design parameters. The greeting card kiosk may print the user customized greeting card and or provide an electronic version of the customized greeting card e.g. an e greeting card . In this manner the user may design and obtain a user customized greeting card at a greeting card kiosk.

A given greeting card kiosk may include one or more portions that each may include a display e.g. a touch screen display one or more inputs which may or may not be incorporated into the display a printer a payment input e.g. a card reader a smart chip reader a Near Field Communication reader etc. and or other components. A given portion may allow users to design a greeting card using the user interface provided by the given portion. Another portion of the given greeting card kiosk may include a print only portion that only prints greeting cards that have been already customized which may be identified by a code described below and does not allow greeting card customization at the kiosk. In this manner a given kiosk may service users that design custom greeting cards at the kiosk and simultaneously service other users that simply pick up already customized greeting cards minimizing wait times for the users.

The system may provide a user interface via a network e.g. a website via the Internet used to specify greeting card design parameters. The user may logon to a website for example and customize greeting cards which may be printed via a user s printer and or provided as an e greeting card. The system may also transmit greeting card design parameters received via the website to a kiosk for printing the user customized greeting card. In this manner the user may design a custom greeting card via a website and indicate a kiosk at which to print the customized greeting card. The system may provide the user with a code or other identification information that identifies the greeting card design parameters. Upon entry of the code at the greeting card kiosk the greeting card kiosk may obtain the greeting card design parameters associated with the code and print the user customized greeting card.

The system may allow a user to design a custom greeting card using a mobile application and transmit the custom greeting card e.g. the greeting card parameters to a nearby greeting card kiosk which prints the custom greeting card via the portion dedicated to handle greeting card specifications. In this example the user may establish a direct connection with a given greeting card kiosk e.g. via BLUETOOTH or other connection and transmit the greeting card parameters via the direct connection. Alternatively the mobile application may transmit a code and the greeting card parameters to the system via a network. The user may input the code at the greeting card kiosk which obtains the greeting card parameters from the system using the code. In this manner in some implementations the print only portion of the kiosk may be used to only pick up already customized cards eg ones designed using sent from the system and or user device .

The system may be used not only with respect to customizing and printing greeting cards but customizing and creating other objects as well. In particular the system may be used to generate customized three dimensional objects using three dimensional printers. In this context the crowd sourced content items may include one or more three dimensional models for shapes that may be incorporated into a customized three dimensional print. The customization options may include a type of material used to generate the three dimensional print a complexity of the three dimensional shape e.g. as defined by a number of laminations depositions material binding and or other three dimensional printing processes that may be more or less complex than other types of processes and or other customizations.

Instead of a greeting card specification described herein for example the system may generate a three dimensional digital model that incorporates the shapes and or customization options. The model may be used to form a solid three dimensional shape using conventional three dimensional printing systems. The three dimensional model may be developed customized from scratch by a user or may be customized using a template using the various features described herein. An at home three dimensional printer and or a kiosk having a three dimensional printer may be used to print the user customized object.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The crowd sourced content items may include items that are provided by various entities so that others may use the crowd sourced content items in their own greeting cards. The crowd sourced content items may be localized. For example and without limitation the system may provide photographs taken by other users of local landmarks artwork sourced from local artists and or other localized crowd sourced content items.

The system may provide one or more games that allow the user to win a bonus that can be used in association with a greeting card customization. For example the bonus may include a discounted price off of a customized greeting card a particular crowd sourced content item a customization option e.g. a special font and or other benefit. The bonus may be associated with a crowd sourced content item or a customization option that is provided only by winning the bonus e.g. is not otherwise available for selection . The game may be free to play such that the bonus may be achieved and applicable to a greeting card customization regardless of whether the user actually purchases a customized greeting card or not. The game may be played via a kiosk via a client device and or other device that has access to the system.

Other uses of system are described herein and still others will be apparent to those having skill in the art. For example the system may be used not only with respect to customizing and printing greeting cards but customizing and creating other objects as well. In particular the system may be used to generate customized three dimensional objects using three dimensional printers. In this context the crowd sourced content items may include one or more three dimensional models for shapes that may be incorporated into a customized three dimensional print. The customization options may include a type of material used to generate the three dimensional print a complexity of the three dimensional shape e.g. as defined by a number of laminations depositions material binding and or other three dimensional printing processes that may be more or less complex than other types of processes and or other customizations.

Instead of a greeting card specification described herein for example the system may generate a three dimensional digital model that incorporates the shapes and or customization options. The model may be used to form a solid three dimensional shape using conventional three dimensional printing systems. The three dimensional model may be developed customized from scratch by a user or may be customized using a template using the various features described herein. An at home three dimensional printer and or a kiosk having a three dimensional printer may be used to print the user customized object.

Having described a high level overview of some of the system functions attention will now be turned to various system components that facilitate these and other functions.

System may include a computer system one or more kiosks one or more user devices and or other components. Each of the various components of system may be communicably coupled to at least one other component facilitating various ways in which the user may customize a greeting card. For example and without limitation the user may customize a greeting card at greeting card kiosk via one or more websites or other interfaces provided by computer system via an application of a user device e.g. a mobile application running on a smartphone a tablet computer etc. and or other device that can provide the various greeting card design interfaces described herein.

A user may make selections of crowd sourced content items and or customization options at a given greeting card kiosk . In an implementation greeting card kiosk may service multiple users simultaneously. For example to minimize waiting times a given user may be able to print a customized greeting card while another user is customizing a greeting card at the kiosk.

A given greeting card kiosk may include one or more portions that each may include a display e.g. a touch screen display one or more inputs which may or may not be incorporated into the display a printer a payment input e.g. a card reader a smart chip reader a Near Field Communication reader etc. and or other components. A given portion may allow users to design a greeting card using the user interface provided by the given portion. Another portion of the given greeting card kiosk may include a print only portion that only prints greeting cards that have been already customized and does not allow greeting card customization at the kiosk.

For example a user may design a custom greeting card using a mobile application and transmit the custom greeting card to a nearby kiosk which prints the custom greeting card via the portion dedicated to handle greeting card specifications. In this manner in some implementations the print only portion of the kiosk may be used to only pick up already customized cards eg ones designed using sent from computer system and or user device . In this manner a given kiosk may service users that design custom greeting cards at the kiosk and simultaneously service other users that simply pick up already customized greeting cards minimizing wait times for the users.

Computer system may provide a greeting card design interface e.g. in the form of a website or other interface that is used to customize a greeting card. The user may access the card design interface e.g. via the Internet to customize a greeting card. Once a greeting card is customized the user may cause a greeting card specification that specifies the customizations to be transmitted to a particular greeting card kiosk e.g. one nearby the user that prints the greeting card. On the other hand the user may simply download the customized greeting card and print the customized greeting card using a local printer not illustrated in .

Computer system may also provide the greeting card specification or an image of the customized greeting card to a user device for printing at a printer connected to the user device. Similarly the user may customize a greeting card using his her own user device which may generate and provide the greeting card specification to a specified greeting card kiosk that prints the greeting card. The user device may provide the greeting card specification to the specified greeting card kiosk via a network e.g. the Internet and or directly via a wireless connection e.g. BLUETOOTH or wired connection to the greeting card kiosk.

Whichever method is used to generate a customized greeting card a corresponding greeting card specification may be stored in one or more databases e.g. database s in association with the user. In this manner a history of greeting cards that a given user customized may be later retrieved. In an implementation the user may allow one or more customization options to be made available for other users. In this manner apart from personal text for example certain customizations may be shared by users so that others may use the customizations as a template for their own custom designs. Such customizations may be stored in the one or more databases so that users may select from among these templates.

Computer system may include one or more computing devices . Although only computing device s is illustrated as having processor s and storage device s each of computing device s kiosk s and user device s may include one or more processors one or more storage devices and or other components. Processor s may be programmed by one or more computer program instructions which may be stored in storage device s . The one or more computer program instructions may include without limitation a greeting card customization application . As such at least a portion of greeting card customization application may program the physical processors of computer system kiosk and or user device to perform one or more of the various operations described herein.

Referring now to greeting card customization application may include for example enrollment instructions crowd sourced content items instructions gaming instructions customization instructions advertising instructions and or other instructions .

In an implementation enrollment instructions may program a physical processor e.g. of computer system kiosk and or user device to enroll a user to use the system. As used hereinafter for convenience the various instructions will be described as performing an operation when in fact the various instructions program the processors to perform the operation. Enrollment instructions may enroll a user to create custom greeting cards sign up to be a provider of crowd sourced content items and or other otherwise enroll the user to use the system.

Enrollment instructions may receive user information such as for example a full name user credentials for future logons e.g. a username and password demographic information payment information used to pay for customized greeting cards e.g. credit card number debit card number PAYPAL identifier etc. although in some implementations a user may input payment information at a kiosk or otherwise at the time when a purchase takes place and or other user information. The user information may be stored in a user account in one or more databases e.g. database s .

In an implementation crowd sourced content items instructions may receive one or more crowd sourced content items from a given user that are offered to other users for inclusion into their respective greeting cards. Each crowd sourced content item may be associated with a location. For example a photograph may be automatically or manually geocoded such that Exchangeable image file format Exif or other data includes a geotag that indicates the location where the photograph was taken. Crowd sourced content items instructions may extract the geotag information to obtain the location associated with the photograph.

In other examples crowd sourced content items instructions may receive a location of an artist that provided the crowd sourced content item. In other examples crowd sourced content items instructions receive a location depicted by a crowd sourced content item. In these examples a provider of the crowd sourced content item may provide a description of a landmark or other location depicted by the crowd sourced content item. In any event a given crowd sourced content item may be associated with a location so that the location may be used to determine which kiosks or other locations that the given crowd sourced content item should be made available.

Crowd sourced content items instructions may provide a crowd sourced content interface that various devices e.g. greeting card kiosk user device etc. may use to upload the crowd sourced content items. For example using the crowd sourced content interface a user may upload one or more crowd sourced content items. In another implementation the crowd sourced content interface may act as an Application Programming Interface API through which mobile applications and other client executed applications may use to provide crowd sourced content items. For example and without limitation a user s mobile device may be programmed with a mobile application that interfaces with the API to provide crowd sourced content items. The mobile application may include for example a share button that allows a user to upload crowd sourced content items such as photographs to be added to the pool of crowd sourced content items that may be included by other users in their respective custom greeting cards.

Crowd sourced content items instructions may monitor the incorporation of any of the crowd sourced content items in order to allocate a payment or royalty to the provider of the crowd sourced content items. For example crowd sourced content items instructions may track each time that a crowd sourced content item from a given user is incorporated into a custom greeting card and provide the given user with a payment or otherwise credit a user account . The royalty may include a cash payment credit a discount off a greeting card customization a free customized greeting card and or other value or benefit.

In an implementation gaming instructions may provide media entertainment such as games videos music images etc. hereinafter referred to as games for convenience . A given game may include an objective to be achieved such as a skill based objective a chance objective and or other objective. Upon satisfaction of the objective gaming instructions may award the user with a bonus. The bonus may be related to customized greeting cards. For example the bonus may include a discount off of the purchase price of a customized greeting card a free customization option that is otherwise not free a customization option that is not otherwise offered at all unless the objective is achieved a reduced price customization option a free customized greeting card a buy one get one free offer and or other bonus that relates to a customized greeting card.

The bonus may be applied to a greeting card being customized and or be applied to a future customized greeting card for the user. As such the bonus may be stored in a user account associated with a user who won the bonus. The bonus may be variable such that different levels of bonuses are provided depending on a level of performance of the objective. For example a bonus may provide a larger discount for higher levels of performance and a lower discount for a lower level of performance. In particular a game may include a random wheel spin with each spot on the wheel associated with a different bonus and or different level of bonus or not bonus at all . Another game may include providing higher discounts for higher scores. Other types of variable bonuses depending on gameplay may be used as well. Furthermore other types of interactions with different types of media entertainment may be used to provide bonuses and or variable bonuses. For example selection of a displayed advertisement from a sponsored advertiser may result in a bonus listening to a portion of music may result in a bonus etc.

In an implementation customization instructions may provide a user interface that includes a user selectable listing of one or more customization options and or crowd sourced content items. The customization options may include without limitation text to be added a text font predefined text to be modified graphics a card style e.g. single sheet bi fold multi fold etc. a card orientation e.g. horizontal vertical etc. a type of occasion birthday anniversary etc a card size a paper quality or other media quality such as different types of plastics polymers wires alloys etc. used in three dimensional prints a print resolution postage customer provided images e.g. apart from the crowd sourced content images taken at a camera of a kiosk if so equipped and or other customizations.

In an implementation customization instructions may use one or more greeting card templates that may be customized by a user. The template may include one or more components e.g. graphic text etc. that may be retained moved deleted duplicated or modified to create a customized greeting card. One or more user selected crowd sourced content items and or one or more user selected customization options including custom text input may be added to the template as well. The template may include text or prose that is recommended by the system and may be modified by a given user. Different text may be recommended by the system based on different types of occasions related to a given greeting card and or based on different themes e.g. humorous thoughtful etc. of a given greeting card.

In an implementation other users customized greeting cards may be used as a template as well. For example a user may customize a greeting card and grant permission for the system to use the user s customized greeting card as a template for others to use which may include first removing any personal content such as customized text . In this example customization instructions may store the user s customized greeting card as a template for later use by others. Furthermore customization instructions may track the use of such templates in order to allocate a royalty for the providing user. As with the royalty for crowd sourced content items the royalty may include a cash payment credit a discount off a greeting card customization a free customized greeting card and or other value or benefit.

Upon selection of one or more crowd sourced content item one or more customization options and or one or more templates customization instructions may add the selections to a greeting card specification. Once all selections including user input such as customized text have been made customization instructions may generate a customized greeting card using the greeting card specification. For example customization instructions may generate a print file that is used to print the customized greeting card via a printer of a greeting card kiosk . Alternatively or additionally depending on where the customized greeting card is to be printed customization instructions may generate an electronic version of the customized greeting card based on the greeting card specification. The electronic version may be emailed downloaded stored such that the electronic version is accessible via a link e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator link and or otherwise provided to a recipient.

In an implementation pricing for the customized greeting card may be based on various pricing factors. For example the pricing factors may include without limitation a selected crowd sourced content item some items may be more costly than others and some may be free a selected customization option e.g. selected fonts types of paper print resolution etc. a selected template whether a coupon code has been input any bonuses that were awarded and or other pricing factors.

In an implementation customization instructions may provide a preview of the generated custom greeting card. The preview may include a two dimensional and or three dimensional preview of the custom greeting card. The preview may present a graphical representation of the custom greeting card that is rotatable opened closed and or otherwise manipulated to provide a user with an ability to view the custom greeting card before purchase and or before printing.

In an implementation advertising instructions may obtain advertisements and or other promotions from one or more advertisers for inclusion into the various interfaces described herein. The advertisements may be stored in one or more advertising databases e.g. database s . The advertisements when selected by a user may provide additional income to the operator of system through prior agreements between the operator and the advertisers. Furthermore the system may provide the user with a bonus or other incentive related to a customized greeting card to select or otherwise interact with a given advertisement.

The various instructions described herein are exemplary only. Other configurations and numbers of instructions may be used so long as the processor s are programmed to perform the functions described herein. Furthermore it should be appreciated that although the various instructions are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s includes multiple processing units one or more instructions may be executed remotely from the other instructions.

The description of the functionality provided by the different instructions described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of instructions may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of the instructions may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of the instructions. As another example processor s may be programmed by one or more additional instructions that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of the instructions.

The various instructions described herein may be stored in a storage device which may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or other memory. The storage device may store the computer program instructions e.g. the aforementioned instructions to be executed by processor as well as data that may be manipulated by processor . The storage device may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage media for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

The various components illustrated in may be coupled to at least one other component via a network which may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a wireless network a cellular communications network a Public Switched Telephone Network and or other network. In and other drawing Figures different numbers of entities than depicted may be used. Furthermore according to various implementations the components described herein may be implemented in hardware and or software that configure hardware.

The various databases described herein may be include or interface to for example an Oracle relational database sold commercially by Oracle Corporation. Other databases such as Informix DB2 Database 2 or other data storage including file based or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Structured Query Language a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access or others may also be used incorporated or accessed. The database may comprise one or more such databases that reside in one or more physical devices and in one or more physical locations. The database may store a plurality of types of data and or files and associated data or file descriptions administrative information or any other data.

Each portion may be modular in that any one of several portions may be connected to one another to form a greeting card kiosk having an arbitrary number of portions . In other examples each portion may be manufactured together with other portions such that they form a unitary structure. Furthermore each portion may be configured or arranged with respect to other portions according to particular needs and not necessarily placed in a side by side configuration so long as each portion is accessible by a respective user. Of course greeting card kiosk may instead include only a single portion .

A given portion may include one or more components such as without limitation a user interface component a printer a network interface a direct wireless or wired communication port a payment input and or other components. User interface component may include a display e.g. a touch screen or other display one or more user inputs such as a keyboard and or other user interface components. When not used to customize a greeting card the display may provide graphical movements and other media content to attract users to the greeting card kiosk. The user inputs may be standalone e.g. a hard keyboard separate from the display and or may be incorporated within the display itself e.g. a soft keyboard provided by the display .

Printer may print a customized greeting card. Printer may include for example an Inkjet printer a laser printer and or other type of printer that can print in color and or black and white.

Network interface may allow portion to communicate via a network such as the Internet . Direct wireless or wired communication port may allow portion to directly communicate with a user device e.g. via BLUETOOTH or other direct wireless wired connection .

Payment input may include a reader that can read a payment device such as a credit card debit card smart chip NFC enabled payment device and or other payment devices. This allows the user to pay at the kiosk although the user may also or alternatively pay using a pre stored payment account as described herein along with verification of user credentials .

As illustrated portion A includes a user interface component A a printer A a network interface A a direct wireless or wired communication port A and a payment input A. In this manner portion A may be considered a full service portion that allows a user to design a custom greeting card using the user interface component A and print the custom greeting card once designed. The user may also import via network interface A and or direct wireless or wired communication port A a greeting card that was previously customized.

As illustrated portion B includes a printer B a network interface B a direct wireless or wired communication port B and a payment input B. Portion N includes a user interface component N a printer N a network interface N a direct wireless or wired communication port N and a payment input N. Because portion B does not include a user interface component A portion B may be considered a print only portion that allows the user to print greeting cards that were already customized by the user.

Portion B may include minimal inputs to allow the user to enter a code corresponding to the customized greeting card which may have been already customized from the user s home via a website provided by computer system or from a user s mobile device via a mobile application . Alternatively the greeting card kiosk may receive the code via network interface B and or direct wireless or wired communication port B. For example the user may provide a command from a mobile application executing on the user s mobile device that causes the code to be transmitted to the greeting card kiosk via the Internet or other network and or via BLUETOOTH or other direct wireless connection . In some implementations the greeting card kiosk may include an identifier affixed on a surface of the kiosk that may be entered into the user s mobile device in order to properly address the greeting card kiosk and or portion of the greeting card kiosk.

As illustrated portion N may be considered a full service kiosk based on its components. In an implementation a given portion may be switched between a full service portion and a print only portion. For example when demand for printing already customized greeting cards is high greeting card kiosk may switch portion N to a print only portion such that a user may not design a custom greeting card using portion N. Likewise greeting card kiosk may switch portion N back to a full service kiosk if demand to design custom greeting cards at the kiosk is high. Of course this pre supposes that the portion N includes an appropriate user interface component .

In an operation one or more crowd sourced content items that are selectable by a user to be included in a user customized greeting card may be obtained.

In an operation one or more user interfaces may be provided. The one or more user interfaces may include the one or more crowd sourced content items for selectable inclusion into the user customized greeting card and a first set of one or more customization options that are selectable to customize the user customized greeting card.

In an operation a selection of at least one crowd sourced content item and or a selection of at least one customization option via the one or more user interfaces may be received and processed. For example a user may select a greeting card template customize the cover and or customize any inside portion of the greeting card if the greeting card includes an inside portion . Such customizations can include addition of at least one crowd sourced content item and or selection of at least one customization option.

In an operation the user customized greeting card based on the at least one crowd sourced content item and the at least one customization option may be generated. In an operation the user customized greeting card may be provided by printing the user customized greeting card providing the user customized greeting card in an electronic form to the user or other recipient and or otherwise providing a representation of the user customized greeting card.

In an operation a plurality of crowd sourced content items may be stored. For example the crowd sourced content items may be stored in one or more databases. An individual crowd sourced content item may be associated with a location. For example the location be a location from which the crowd sourced content item was created a location depicted by the item a location associated with an artist or other provider of the item and or other location associated with the item.

In an operation a target location for which a greeting card to be customized relates may be identified. For example a target location may include the location of a greeting card kiosk where a greeting card is to be customized. In this example the location of the greeting card kiosk may be used to identify crowd sourced content items to provide to the greeting card kiosk. In another example a target location may include the location of a user device e.g. identified based on Global Positioning System cell tower localization and or other location techniques . In this manner the user device may be provided with crowd sourced content items that are specific to the location of the user device. In another example a target location may include a location that is input by the user. In this manner the user may customize a greeting card using crowd sourced content items that relate to the location that the user chooses e.g. the user would like to create a postcard to commemorate a vacation at a particular locale and include crowd sourced content items related to the locale .

In an operation crowd sourced content items that are within a proximity of the target location may be identified. The proximity may be expressed as a circular area defined by a radius and the target location. The proximity may be predefined and or configurable by a user or the system. In an operation the identified crowd sourced content items may be provided for selectable inclusion into a customized greeting card.

In an operation a game or other entertainment media may be provided. The game or other entertainment media may be provided via a greeting card kiosk a user interface e.g. website of a computer system that provides greeting card customizations a mobile application at a user device and or other communication channel through which the game or other entertainment media may be provided.

In an operation an interactive event related to the game or other entertainment media may be received and processed. For example the interactive event may include an in game input by the user an in game action by the game s artificial intelligence a passage of time viewing media content such as videos and or other interactive event.

In an operation a determination of whether the interactive event triggers a bonus related to the custom greeting card may be made. For example a user may perform some game objective that merits a bonus that may be used in association with customizing a greeting card. If the interactive event triggers a bonus then the bonus may be associated with the user e.g. in a memory and or user account of the user in an operation .

In an operation a determination of whether the game or other entertainment media is over may be made. If the game or other entertainment media is over any bonuses accumulated during the game or other entertainment media may be provided in an operation . On the other hand if the game or other entertainment media is not over then processing may return to operation where an interactive event may be received.

Other implementations uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

