---

title: Electronic music instrument, system and method for operating an electronic music instrument
abstract: An electronic music instrument comprises at least one rotary encoder with a knob configured for setting a value of a parameter of the instrument; at least one input configured for receiving at least one of a base value of the parameter and a modulation offset of the parameter; and a visual indicator associated with the encoder configured for indicating the base value of the parameter and the modulation offset of the parameter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09196236&OS=09196236&RS=09196236
owner: Native Instruments GmbH
number: 09196236
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20140902
---
The present invention relates to an electronic music instrument a system comprising the electronic music instrument and a data processing device and a method for operating an electronic music instrument.

Today most software instruments have an internal modulation engine for changing or modulating one or more parameters of the instrument. The software instrument can be a simulation or emulation of an instrument or it can be an electronic instrument like for example a synthesizer. In the field of music a signal processing unit or a mixer may also comprise an internal modulation engine.

A parameter can be changed not only through interaction with the respective on screen control element or through MIDI Musical Instrument Digital Interface via a correspondingly mapped hardware control but also commonly through additional oscillators sequencers or envelope followers that are computed inside the instrument. The changing of the parameter is usually visualized on the computer screen in the respective software window by e.g. a value bar at the virtual control s on screen visualization. When operating the instrument inside a digital audio workstation DAW environment there is however a further way of changing a parameter by using digital audio workstation automation. A user can sequence the changing of a parameter s value over time in the workstation s timeline. The corresponding changing of the parameter is also usually visualized on the computer screen in the respective software window. The changing of the parameter is then executed through the instrument s application programming interface API .

However there is an important semantic difference between modulating a parameter inside the instrument and changing a parameter from the digital audio workstation. The instrument s own modulation is temporarily added to the parameter while not changing its value while the digital audio workstation changing through the API sets the parameters value similar as changing the parameter through the instrument s graphical user interface or through MIDI.

This difference is reflected in the graphical user interface of the digital audio workstation A change of the parameter sets the virtual control s value e.g. on a knob control and the value indicating handle is redrawn on the screen of the digital audio workstation to reflect the value.

The change introduced through a modulation does normally not redraw the control s handle. Instead an indicator is shown on the computer screen where the control s handle would currently be if the modulation would be a parameter change. Or in other words the modulation changes the parameter only momentarily while the parameter change through the plugin interface is permanent and any modulation inside the instrument is added to this new parameter value.

Thereby arises the problem that the current value of a parameter is not always transparent to the user.

This problem is solved according to the invention by an electronic music instrument according to claim a system comprising the electronic music instrument and a data processing device according to claim and a method for operating an electronic music instrument according to claim respectively.

According to an aspect of the present invention an electronic music instrument comprises at least one rotary encoder with a knob configured for setting a value of a parameter of the instrument at least one input configured for receiving at least one of a base value of the parameter and a modulation offset of the parameter and a visual indicator associated with the encoder configured for indicating the base value of the parameter and the modulation offset of the parameter. The visual indicator provides a user with additional visual feedback on the hardware without having to look at a computer screen thereby enhancing usability and comfort of the electronic music instrument. The visual indicator indicates or displays the parameter s base value i.e. the permanent or fix value which remains until changed or reset. Further the visual indicator indicates or displays the parameter s modulation offset i.e. a temporary offset to the base value. By this arrangement the user or player is informed about all influences to a parameter or a value of a parameter of the electronic music instrument directly at the music instrument. The input may be an input for external signals like from a computer such as a digital audio workstation. The input may be an internal input configured for example for receiving a modulation offset or it may be an external input configured for receiving at least one of a base value of the parameter and a modulation offset for example from a sound generating device like an instrument a digital audio workstation or the like.

The electronic musical instrument may be a MIDI controller a synthesizer or a sample based instrument. The electronic music instrument may further be a keyboard synthesizer DJ controller pad controller matrix controller 4 4 controller step sequencer a controlling device for music production or the like configured for generating and or affecting note or sound events. The rotary encoder with the accompanied visual indicator is especially useful for such electronic musical instruments. For the first time this combination gives information about external influences like from a digital audio workstation and internal influences like from an internal modulation engine at the instrument itself while playing the instrument. The player of the instrument can keep his attention on the instrument and still receives information with regard to parameter changes not originating directly from the player.

The visual indicator may comprise a plurality of LEDs. The visual indicator may comprise a ring of LEDs wherein each LED marks a position or value of the parameter. The LEDs allow for easy assessment of the parameter s value. In an alternative setting a liquid crystal display LCD is implemented which may have a finer resolution. In the case of an LCD the name and or one or more values of the parameter can be displayed close to encoder which eases handling of the signal processing apparatus.

The visual indicator may be ring shaped at least partly surrounding the knob. Such an arrangement allows for direct assignment or association of the visual indicator and the encoder. Preferably the visual indicator and the knob are arranged in a concentric manner. Readability of the visual indicator is thus enhanced.

The visual indicator may be configured for indicating the modulation offset starting at the base value. In a way this indication is an optical subtraction or addition of the base value and the modulation offset. The user is enabled to see the base value the modulation offset and their difference at one glance. While the base value may be seen as a zero or fixed point or line the modulation offset may be seen as a value bar or range.

The visual indicator may be configured for temporarily changing it s appearance when a base value of the parameter or a modulation offset of the parameter is received. The change in appearance may include pulsating or flashing changing hue brilliance and or saturation or the like. The change may occur temporarily and periodically. The changing visual indicator shows a user immediately that a change to the parameter was received even when the amount of the parameter s change is below a resolution of the visual indicator. The duration of the changing in appearance can be adjusted to the user s needs and or the extent of the parameter change.

The rotary encoder may be an absolute encoder and the visual indicator may comprise a light emitting indicator configured for displaying the modulation offset and a hardware pointer configured for displaying the base value. Such a partition or division of the visual indicator into a light emitting indicator and a hardware pointer renders absolute encoders capable of cooperating with the idea of visualizing the base value and the modulation offset at the same time. While the hardware pointer corresponds to the actual position or axial orientation of the encoder the light emitting indicator indicates by adjusting it s luminance hue saturation and or illuminated area or range the variable offset caused by modulation of the parameter. The light emitting indicator may be realized by a number of LEDs such as an LED ring for example or by an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a TFT display Thin Film Transistor an OLED display Organic Light Emitting Diode or the like.

The rotary encoder may be a relative encoder and the visual indicator may comprise a light emitting indicator configured for displaying the modulation offset and the base value. Now both information elements i.e. base value and offset are displayed by the light emitting indicator of the visual indicator. By this arrangement the degree of freedom of the relative or incremental encoder can be fully used and the information with regard to the parameter is displayed only by the visual indicator.

The parameter may be an instrument or play assistant parameter like for example cutoff boost bandwidth reverb and or decay. These are important parameters which can be changed during play. Hence information about changes to these parameters allows the player to adjust his play.

The electronic music instrument may further comprise an internal modulation engine for providing a modulation offset of the parameter to the input. Such an internal modulation engine changes or modulates a parameter without direct influence of the user or player. Therefore it is beneficial to display changes to the parameter induced by such a modulation directly at the encoder in front of the user. As the user or player changes the parameter via the encoder it is an intuitive design to display parameter changes to the user at this place.

According to another aspect of the present invention a system comprising the electronic music instrument as described above and a data processing device is provided. Such a system can for example be implemented with benefit in the music industry. In this case the electronic music instrument may be a MIDI controller a keyboard instrument or the like while the data processing device may be a digital audio workstation or for example any other sound generating device.

The data processing device may be a digital audio workstation and may be configured for providing a base value of the parameter to the input. A digital audio workstation usually directly changes the base value of a parameter which is commonly called DAW automation. For the user it is important to be informed about such an important non temporary change directly at the instrument in front of him.

A controller configured for providing a base value of the parameter may be connected to the data processing device and the data processing device may be configured for providing the base value of the parameter to the input. For example a MIDI controller can be attached to the digital audio workstation. Such a MIDI controller directly influences the base value of the parameter. In such a setting it also beneficial to inform the user about changes to the parameter.

According to a further aspect of the present invention a method for operating an electronic music instrument having at least one rotary encoder with a knob includes setting a value of a parameter of the instrument by rotating the knob receiving at least one of a base value of the parameter and a modulation offset of the parameter and indicating the base value of the parameter and the modulation offset of the parameter by a visual indicator associated with the encoder. As mentioned before the combined display of a fix base value and a variable modulation offset directly at the encoder and therefore in front of the user eases handling of the instrument.

An indication of the modulation offset may start at an indication of the base value. In a way this indication is an optical subtraction or addition of the base value and the modulation offset. The user is enabled to see the base value the modulation offset and their difference at one glance. While the base value may be seen as a zero or fixed point or line the modulation offset may be seen as a value bar or range.

The modulation offset may be displayed by a light emitting indicator and the base value may be displayed by a hardware pointer. Spreading the visual indication to a light emitting indicator and a hardware pointer allows advantageously the use of absolute encoders. The absolute encoder may have a motor for driving the encoder or it s knob according to changes to the parameter. Preferably only changes to the base value of the parameter induce movement of the motor. The temporary and usually faster movements of the modulation offset are displayed by the light emitting indicator.

The base value and the modulation offset may be displayed by a light emitting indicator. This arrangement is beneficial for a relative encoder. The relative signals can be used to calculate and display the position and or range of the base value and the modulation offset in the light emitting indicator.

The electronic music instrument includes a number of rotary encoders for adjusting parameters or values of parameters which are arranged for example in a control section of the electronic music instrument . The parameters may include instrument and play assistant parameters. In the control section additional displays are provided that provide visual feedback to the user. The rotary encoders may be implemented as endless and or touch sensitive encoders. The number of rotary encoders depends on the demands on and the design of the electronic music instrument . In this example the number of rotary encoders ranges from two to sixteen preferably eight. For the ease of understanding only one rotary encoder is shown in the Figures. The parameter may be mapped electronically to the encoder . In the alternative the parameter or the function may be connected in hardware with the encoder . Hence the assignment or allocation between a parameter and an encoder may be variable or fixed.

A communication link like a data line or a bus system connects the electronic music instrument with the data processing device . Signals or sound generated by keys of the keyboard are provided to the data processing device via the communication link . The communication link has bidirectional capabilities. Control signals settings parameter values and the like input for example via the keyboard or the rotary encoder are transferred from the electronic music instrument to the data processing device . From the data processing device on the other hand control signals settings parameter values and the like are transferred to the electronic music instrument . The signals the communication link protocols and or interfaces as well as the electronic music instrument and the data processing device may be compatible to the MIDI standard USB standard Universal Serial Bus or other standards known from computers or music instruments.

When working with the electronic music instrument or playing an instrument like the electronic music instrument one or more software programs instruments routines or plugins are used or executed in serial or parallel. Such software can be executed on the electronic music instrument the data processing device and or further devices.

With regard to the electronic music instrument is now described in detail. The electronic music instrument has one or more parameters for setting up the electronic music instrument or for changing it s behavior. In this example of the music field the parameter is an instrument or play assistant parameter including for example cutoff boost bandwidth reverb and decay.

The parameter can be accessed or influenced in various ways. Via the rotary encoder a base value of the parameter can be set. The base value of the parameter can also originate from the data processing device via the communication link . The base value may further be influenced from a GUI graphical user interface on a computer or by a MIDI controller attached to the data processing device .

An internal modulation engine provides a modulation offset to the parameter for changing it s value. The internal modulation engine provides additional oscillators sequencers or envelope followers that are computed inside the internal modulation engine and applied to the parameter. While the influence of the modulation inside the instrument is applied to the new parameter value only momentarily the changes according to the base value provided by the rotary encoder or by the data processing device are permanent at least until a new internal or external value is present.

The parameter as well as it s processing or change and the internal modulation engine are executed inside a software module . The software module may comprise one or more instances which can be executed on different computational devices . Here one computational device is present which may be a DSP digital signal processor chip or the like in an enclosure common to the keyboard . The computational device can be arranged inside the electronic music instrument as shown or it can correspond to the data processing device and or further devices.

A key of the keyboard generates a signal when it is pressed by a user or player. Via a communication link like a data line or a bus system the signal is provided to the computational device and or the software module .

The software module may encompass further modules routines functions or plugins like for example one or more play assistance functions and or a collection of instrument plugins. According to the signals from the keyboard the software module generates or computes an output signal to be recorded and or played.

The rotary encoder has a handle or knob which can be actuated or operated by the user or player of the electronic music instrument . The knob is supported in a rotatory manner i.e. the rotary encoder can be rotated around an axis of rotation. The position and or movement of a shaft of the rotary encoder are detected in a known mechanical optical magnetic or capacitive manner.

A display for example an LCD or TFT display is arranged above the rotary encoder and shows a name or designation of the parameter . Here a cutoff frequency can be changed with the rotary encoder . The display may also surround the rotary encoder so that additional information with regard to the parameter like a range or zero point can be displayed close to the rotary encoder .

A visual indicator is provided at the rotary encoder for indicating the modulation offset of the parameter and the base value of the parameter . The visual indicator encompasses the hardware pointer or indicator and a light emitting indicator .

The light emitting indicator is ring shaped or has the shape of ring segment respectively. The light emitting indicator surrounds the knob in part preferably at a range of about 270 . The range of the light emitting indicator may be adapted to the range of movement of the knob .

The light emitting indicator may include at least one light emitting diode LED advantageously a ring of LEDs. The LEDs can be directly arranged at a surface on which the rotary encoder is arranged or the LEDs can be arranged inside the electronic music instrument . In latter case a light guide is present guiding the light to a display element. In the alternative an LCD can be used to represent the light emitting indicator . Preferably it is the same as the display .

A part or area of the light emitting indicator is illuminated or active in dependence of the modulation offset . This part is perceivable by the user of the electronic music instrument . In the part or indication of the modulation offset starts at the hardware indicator and ranges to a position corresponding to the modulation offset of the parameter .

The rotary encoder and the visual indicator or light emitting indicator both have a zero point which may be marked or not. The indicator shows the base value as a range from the zero point to the indicator . The visual indicator shows the modulation offset by it s end of the illuminated or active part . While the range of the modulation offset reaches from the zero point to the end of the part only the part located between the indicator and the end is active or illuminated. In this way the user can see clearly the contribution of the base value by the position of the knob and of the modulation offset by the active part to the value of the parameter . The resulting value of the parameter corresponds to the end of the active area .

A display for example an LCD or TFT display is arranged above the rotary encoder and shows a name or designation of the parameter . Here a cutoff frequency can be changed with the rotary encoder . The display may also surround the rotary encoder so that additional information with regard to the parameter like a range or zero point can be displayed close to the rotary encoder .

A visual indicator is provided at the rotary encoder for indicating the modulation offset of the parameter and the base value of the parameter . The visual indicator encompasses the light emitting indicator . The indicator is realized by the light emitting indicator .

The light emitting indicator is ring shaped or has the shape of ring segment respectively. The light emitting indicator surrounds the knob in part preferably at a range of about 270 .

The light emitting indicator may include at least one light emitting diode LED advantageously a ring of LEDs. The LEDs can be directly arranged at a surface on which the rotary encoder is arranged or the LEDs can be arranged inside the electronic music instrument . In latter case a light guide is present guiding the light to a display element. In the alternative an LCD can be used to represent the light emitting indicator . Preferably it is the same as the display .

A part or area of the light emitting indicator is illuminated or active in dependence of the base value and the modulation offset . This part is perceivable by the user of the electronic music instrument . The position of the left end also referred to as indicator of the active part corresponds to the base value . Compared to the left end of corresponds to the pointer of . This indication of the base value corresponds to the value set by the user or player by rotating the knob or the rotary encoder or to the value set by external devices like the data processing device .

The part or indication of the modulation offset starts at the left or lower end and ranges to a position corresponding to the modulation offset of the parameter .

The rotary encoder and the visual indicator or light emitting indicator both have a zero point which may be marked or not. The visual indicator or the light emitting indicator may have the form of a complete ring i.e. fully surrounding the knob . The zero point may then be realized as an active or switched on part of the light emitting indicator .

The indicator shows the base value as a range from the zero point to the indicator . This range is not visible active or illuminated. The visual indicator shows the modulation offset by it s end of the illuminated or active part . While the range of the modulation offset reaches from the zero point to the end of the part only the part located between the indicator and the end is active or illuminated. In this way the user can see clearly the contribution of the base value by the left or lower end and of the modulation offset by the active part to the value of the parameter . The resulting value of the parameter corresponds to the right or upper end of the active area .

A part or three light emitting indicators of the visual indicator are illuminated or active in dependence of the base value and the modulation offset . This part is perceivable by the user of the electronic music instrument . The position of the light emitting indicator also referred to as indicator corresponds to the base value . This indication of the base value corresponds to the value set by the user or player by rotating the knob or the rotary encoder or to the value set by external devices like the data processing device .

The part or indication of the modulation offset starts at the next light emitting indicator right to indicator and ranges to an indicator corresponding to the modulation offset of the parameter .

The rotary encoder and the visual indicator both have a zero point which may be marked or not. The visual indicator may have the form of a complete ring i.e. fully surrounding the knob . The zero point may then be realized as an active or switched on part of the light emitting indicator . Here the zero point is indicated by the first light emitting indicator in the lower left corner.

The indicator shows the base value as a range from the zero point to the indicator . This range is not visible active or illuminated. The visual indicator shows the value of the modulation offset by its end of the illuminated or active part . While the range of the modulation offset reaches from the zero point to the end of the part only the part located between the indicator and the end is active or illuminated. In this way the user can see clearly the contribution of the base value by the left or lower end and of the modulation offset by the active part i.e. the three visual indicators to the value of the parameter . The resulting value of the parameter corresponds to the right or upper end of the active area .

According to the modulation offset is larger than the base value so that the active area is right or clockwise from the indicator . Hence the active part of the visual indicator corresponds to a subtraction of the base value from the modulation offset . It could also be that the modulation offset is smaller than the base value so that the active area is left or counter clockwise from the indicator . Hence the active part corresponds in that case to a subtraction of the modulation offset from the base value . In other words the active part corresponds to the difference between the two values for the parameter .

Once a new resulting value is computed for the parameter value based upon a new modulation offset the visual indicator is activated or updated. This includes drawing or redrawing the active part based upon the computation of the resulting value of the parameter . The computation and or the control of the visual indicator may be executed by the software module the computational device and or the data processing device .

