---

title: Online information system with per-document selectable items
abstract: A first document may be requested and received from a server device. Based on the first document, a web page may be rendered for display on a client device. The rendered web page may include a first plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. It may be determined that a scroll position of the rendered web page has a particular characteristic. Possibly responsive to this determination, a second document, associated with one of the selectable items, may be requested and received from the server device. The web page may be re-rendered for display, and may include content from the first document and the second document. The re-rendered web page may include a second plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. The second plurality of selectable items may be different from the first plurality of selectable items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576069&OS=09576069&RS=09576069
owner: Tribune Publishing Company, LLC
number: 09576069
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140731
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 988 097 filed May 2 2014 and to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 988 776 filed May 5 2014 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Online information systems such as web sites and other types of content servers have slowly become an alternative to traditional print media. Today many users access up to date news articles and other information via a web browser or application app operating on a computing device. While these online information systems provide users with near instantaneous access to a wealth of information this information often lacks the formatting organization and presentation that users have grown accustomed to from traditional print media.

In a first example embodiment a first document may be requested and received from a server device. Based on the first document a web page may be rendered for display on a client device. The rendered web page may include a first plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. It may be determined that a scroll position of the rendered web page has a particular characteristic. Possibly responsive to determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page has the particular characteristic a second document may be requested and received from the server device. The second document may be associated with one of the selectable items. The web page may be re rendered for display on the client device. The re rendered web page may include content from the first document and the second document. The re rendered web page may include a second plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. The second plurality of selectable items may be different from the first plurality of selectable items.

In a second example embodiment a web page may be displayed on a web browser interface of a client device. The web page may represent a first section of an electronic newspaper or magazine. The first section as displayed may include a transporter component the transporter component including references to a plurality of additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine. At least some of the additional sections may be associated with the first section by a continuous scrolling feature. It may be determined that a particular reference to one of the additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine has been selected. Possibly in response to determining that the particular reference to one of the additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine has been selected a second section of the electronic newspaper or magazine may be requested and received from a server device. The second section may be associated with the particular reference. The web browser interface may display a representation of the second section. When the second section is associated with the first section by the continuous scrolling feature the web browser interface may display a modified version of the first web page with the first section followed by the second section. When the second section is not associated with the first section by the continuous scrolling feature the web browser interface may display a second web page including the second section but not including the first section.

A third example embodiment may involve a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon program instructions that upon execution by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations in accordance with the first and or second example embodiments.

A fourth example embodiment may involve a computing device including at least a processor and data storage. The data storage may include program instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform operations in accordance with the first and or second example embodiments.

These as well as other embodiments aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it should be understood that this summary and other descriptions and figures provided herein are intended to illustrate embodiments by way of example only and as such that numerous variations are possible. For instance structural elements and process steps can be rearranged combined distributed eliminated or otherwise changed while remaining within the scope of the embodiments as claimed.

Example methods devices and systems are described herein. It should be understood that the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or feature described herein as being an example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or features. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein.

Thus the example embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Regardless web server system may include or have access to user accounts content web page engine user interface and administrative interface . In some embodiments web server system may include or have access to more or fewer elements or these elements may be arranged differently.

User accounts may be a database and or some other organization of information that represents attributes of one or more users of web server system . Thus for each user user accounts may include a username email address physical address phone number and or billing information. User accounts may also include representations of a user s subscription if any to web server information system . These representations may include the type of subscription types of content associated with the subscription that the user can access the duration of the subscription and so on. User accounts may additionally include representations of options and or configuration data associated with the user. At least some of these options and or configuration data may be set updated or modified by the user.

Content may include raw or at least partially formatted content accessible to web server system . This content may include text images audio video and or multimedia. Further content may be arranged in a logical fashion. For instance text and images from a particular article may be associated with one another. Also articles directed to a particular topic or subject may also be related to one another. In some cases content may be organized into a discrete number of categories such as world news national news local news sports health entertainment technology humor and so on.

Web page engine may be software arranged to render parts of content into a web page for viewing by a user or administrator. For instance web page engine may be able to receive a request for information from one of user devices retrieve the associated content from content format the retrieved content in accordance with the user account of the user and provide a representation of this data to the user device via user interface . The representation may take the form of one or more documents and related information that can be rendered as a web page on a user interface of the user device. Web page engine may be able to perform other functions as well.

User interface may be a representation of what a user sees when he or she accesses information via web server system . For instance user interface may take the form of one or more columns of information from content that was formatted by web page engine . The information may be topically organized so that the user can logically browse through related articles. In some cases the information may be organized in a scrolling interface that is configured to allow forward scrolling and backward scrolling. However other implementations and user interface paradigms are possible. User interface may also support a mode in which a user can view and or edit his or her user account information and settings.

Administrative interface may be a representation of what an administrator sees when he or she accesses web server system . Thus administrative interface may allow an administrator to upload write and or edit articles or other content. Administrative interface may present information regarding the configuration status and or health of web server system .

Accordingly web server system may facilitate online access from one or more user devices and or administrative devices . Each of user devices and or administrative devices may be a computing device and these computing devices may be interconnected to web server system by a computer network such as the Internet or one or more private networks.

Each of user devices may correspond to a human user of web server system . Each of administrative devices may correspond to a human or automated entity that operates and or provides content to web server system . For instance administrative devices may be associated with individuals or groups that update maintain and or monitor the health of web server system . In some situations administrative devices may be owned or operated by entities that provide content to web server system . For instance an administrative device may be operated by a newswriter who writes and or edits articles that are eventually placed in content . Alternatively or additionally an administrative device may represent a third party entity e.g. a news feed that provides articles for content .

Web server system user devices and or administrative devices as well as any other device or function associated with the architecture of can represent be operated on or be operated by one or more computing devices. These computing devices may be organized in a standalone fashion in networked computing environments or in other arrangements. Examples are provided in the next section.

In this example computing device includes a processor a data storage a network interface and input output interface s all of which may be coupled by a system bus or a similar mechanism. Processor can include one or more central processing units CPUs such as one or more general purpose processors and or one or more dedicated processors e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs and or network processors .

Data storage in turn may include volatile and or non volatile data storage and can be integrated in whole or in part with processor . Data storage can hold program instructions executable by processor and data that may be manipulated by these instructions to carry out the various methods processes or functions described herein. Alternatively these methods processes or functions can be defined by hardware firmware and or any combination of hardware firmware and software. By way of example the data in data storage may include program instructions perhaps stored on a non transitory computer readable medium executable by processor to carry out any of the methods processes or functions disclosed in this specification or the accompanying drawings.

Network interface may take the form of a wireline connection such as an Ethernet Token Ring or T carrier connection. Network interface may also take the form of a wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 Wifi BLUETOOTH or a wide area wireless connection. However other forms of physical layer connections and other types of standard or proprietary communication protocols may be used over network interface . Furthermore network interface may include multiple physical interfaces.

Input output interface s may facilitate user interaction with example computing device . Input output interface s may include multiple types of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a touch screen and so on. Similarly input output interface s may include multiple types of output devices such as a screen monitor printer or one or more light emitting diodes LEDs . Additionally or alternatively computing device may support remote access from another device via network interface or via another interface not shown such as a universal serial bus USB or high definition multimedia interface HDMI port.

In some embodiments one or more computing devices may be deployed in a networked architecture. The exact physical location connectivity and configuration of the computing devices may be unknown and or unimportant to client devices. Accordingly the computing devices may be referred to as cloud based devices that may be housed at various local or remote locations.

For example server devices can be configured to perform various computing tasks of computing device . Thus computing tasks can be distributed among one or more of server devices . To the extent that these computing tasks can be performed in parallel such a distribution of tasks may reduce the total time to complete these tasks and return a result.

Cluster data storage may be data storage arrays that include disk array controllers configured to manage read and write access to groups of hard disk drives. The disk array controllers alone or in conjunction with server devices may also be configured to manage backup or redundant copies of the data stored in cluster data storage to protect against disk drive failures or other types of failures that prevent one or more of server devices from accessing units of cluster data storage .

Cluster routers may include networking equipment configured to provide internal and external communications for the server clusters. For example cluster routers may include one or more packet switching and or routing devices configured to provide i network communications between server devices and cluster data storage via cluster network and or ii network communications between the server cluster and other devices via communication link to network .

Additionally the configuration of cluster routers can be based at least in part on the data communication requirements of server devices and cluster data storage the latency and throughput of the local cluster networks the latency throughput and cost of communication link and or other factors that may contribute to the cost speed fault tolerance resiliency efficiency and or other design goals of the system architecture.

In some embodiments web server system may operate on a server cluster such as cloud based server cluster while user devices and administrative devices may operate on smaller scale computing devices such as computing device . However other arrangements are possible.

A web page may represent any type of electronic document file or information that is suitable for distribution from a web server and to a web browser. In order to facilitate this distribution web browsers and web servers may use the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . HTTP may be implemented as an application layer request response protocol. A web browser for example may submit one or more HTTP request messages to a web server. The web server may return one or more response messages to the web browser. The response message s may include content such as text images multimedia style sheets scripts and so on. The web browser may render the web page on an output modality of a computing device. The web browser may also output associated information such as a uniform resource locator URL that serves as an address of the currently viewed web page.

The rendering of a web page may involve the web browser formatting and displaying the content of the response message s possibly in accordance with a markup language. For instance a web page may be represented in the form of the hypertext markup language HTML . An HTML document for example may include paired or unpaired tags that delimit elements of the document s content. Tags may allow a text element to be interpreted and displayed by the web browser according to a pre established or dynamic schema. Tags may also allow images and other objects to be embedded within a text element of a web page. Further tags may include links hyperlinks to other web pages on the same web server or a different web server. Some tags include attributes possibly in the form of name value pairs that further identify classify or indicate how the web browser should display or process the element.

Web page is an illustration of how a web browser could format and display HTML document . The top section of web page represents the title bar widget of the web browser. The bottom section of web page represents the displayed content of the web browser. In web page the element between the and tags of HTML document is displayed in top section and the element between the and tags of HTML document is displayed in bottom section . Web page however is just an example and HTML document could be formatted and displayed in different ways. Further any of the discussion herein regarding HTML document could also be applied to any other type of markup language document or web page encoding. Further the markup language document or web page encoding may include one or more scripts that may be executed by the client device that operates the web browser.

Some web browsers and web servers support common conventions for their internal representations of web pages. For instance many web browsers and web servers support the document object model DOM . The DOM is a generic mechanism for representing and interacting with elements of a markup language. The DOM may represent an HTML document as a tree with each HTML element as a node of the tree. With this common representation scripts can be embedded within web pages that can traverse this tree to dynamically read modify write or create HTML elements within the HTML document. These scripts may also react to events occurring in the web browser such as pointer events. Pointer events may include for instance mouse over events in which a user s mouse pointer hovers over an HTML element or mouse click events in which the user presses and or releases a mouse button on or in the vicinity of an HTML element. In this way the display of the web page can be modified based on the user s interaction with HTML elements within the web page.

As an example depicts an example HTML document . Example HTML document is similar to example HTML document except that HTML document includes a pair of tags that include a name value pair of id demo . Additionally HTML document also includes a pair of tags that include the script command document.getElementById demo .innerHTML Hello World . While depicts an example script using the JavaScript language other scripting languages may be used for the same purpose.

A DOM tree for HTML document is shown as well. Root node represents the element of HTML document between the and tags. Node represents the element between the and tags. Node represents the element between the and tags. The text This is a title may be represented in a node not shown which may be a child of node .

Node represents the element between the and tags. Node represents the element between the and tags. The text Hello may be represented in a node not shown which may be a child of node . Node represents the element between the and tags. The text document.getElementById demo . innerHTML Hello World may be represented in a node not shown which may be a child of node .

The script command may among other possible features search the DOM tree for an element with an id field with the value demo . After finding this element the script may replace text included within that element with the text Hello World The operation of the script may occur entirely on the client device or may occur in conjunction with a server device that operates the web server.

An example result of the operation of this script is shown in web page . Web page is an illustration of how a web browser could format and display HTML document . The top section of web page represents the title bar widget of the web browser. The bottom section of web page represents the displayed content of the web browser. Due to the operation of the script the text Hello appearing between the and tags may be replaced with the text Hello World 

The example in illustrates just one way in which a script can modify the HTML elements of a web page. Scripts can perform additional operations on HTML elements and may be able to carry out additional functions related to web browser configuration and state.

The vertical length of the rendered HTML document exceeds the vertical length of the web browser. Thus the rendered HTML document includes a viewable portion which is displayed in the web browser as well as a non viewable portion that is not displayed in the web browser. Therefore the web browser displays only a portion of the rendered HTML document at a time.

For instance in state a top portion of the rendered HTML document is viewable and a bottom portion is not viewable. In state a middle portion of the rendered HTML document is viewable while top and bottom portions are not viewable. In state a bottom portion of the rendered HTML document is viewable and a top portion is not viewable.

It should be understood that the depictions of non viewable portions of documents herein are merely logical representations of this information that are presented for purposes of illustration. In the embodiments herein the user may be able to see what is viewable in the web browser and may be able to scroll forward or backward to see the non viewable portions of the documents. Further these depictions do not imply any particular arrangements in memory of these documents or data representing these documents.

The scroll box can be moved to allow parts of the non viewable portion s of the rendered HTML document to become viewable. For instance if the scroll box is dragged down the rendered HTML document may appear to scroll down in the web browser. Conversely if the scroll box is dragged up the rendered HTML document may appear to scroll up in the web browser. The ratio of the length of the scroll box to the total length of the scroll bar may be proportional to ratio of the vertical size of the viewable portion of the rendered HTML document to the vertical size of the entire rendered HTML document.

Thus if the user begins with state and moves the scroll box down to the middle of the scroll bar the web browser may display the web page in accordance with state . If the user moves the scroll box down to the bottom of the scroll bar the web browser may display the web page in accordance with state . The user may use the scroll box or some other mechanism such as a mouse wheel or a touchscreen interface to scroll up and down through the rendered HTML document.

In some embodiments the web browser perhaps via markup language and or scripts on the web pages may maintain a correct scroll box position relative to the scroll bar even as the web browser window height width or orientation changes e.g. landscape to portrait mode or vice versa . The correct position of the scroll box may also be maintained even as a web page dynamically changes e.g. when content is added to or removed from the web page . This may involve dynamically recalculating the size of one or more dimensions of the viewable portion of a web page the total size of one or more dimensions of the web page and determining the position of the scroll box in the scroll bar based on the location of the viewable portion of the rendered HTML document within the total size of the rendered HTML document.

As an alternative to scrolling vertically horizontal scrolling diagonal scrolling or some other directionality of scrolling may be used. Throughout the description herein the concept of scrolling forward may be used to refer to scrolling generally away from the beginning of a document and toward the end of the document. Likewise the concept of scrolling backward may be used to refer to scrolling generally away from the end of a document and toward the beginning of the document. These terms may be used regardless of whether the scrolling is implemented vertically horizontally or otherwise.

As described above provides an example of intra page navigation via scrolling. In contrast provides an example of inter page navigation via browsing. States and depict web browser states as a user navigates to web page A to web page B to web page C and then back to web page B respectively. For sake of simplicity it is assumed that each of these web pages A B C and D can be fully depicted within the web browser.

Associated with a state of the web browser is a browser history. The browser history may be implemented as an ordered list or a tree of web pages that the user has viewed in the web browser s current session. State depicts a web browser displaying web page A. In the browser history only web page A is listed indicating that web page A is the only page that the browser has displayed. The arrow to the left of web page A in the browser history indicates that web page A is the currently displayed web page.

Perhaps after viewing web page A for some period of time the user may activate e.g. click on or touch a link embedded within web page A and navigate to web page B. As a result at state the web browser displays web page B. In the associated browser history web page A and web page B are listed. The arrow to the left of web page B in the browser history indicates that web page B is the currently displayed web page.

Perhaps after viewing web page B for some period of time the user may activate a link embedded within web page B and navigate to web page C. As a result at state the web browser displays web page C. In the associated browser history web page A web page B and web page C are listed. The arrow to the left of web page C in the browser history indicates that web page C is the currently displayed web page.

The web browser may include back and forward buttons not shown that facilitate navigation based on the browser history. Activating the back button may cause the web browser to display the previous web page in the browser history. Activating the forward button may cause the web browser to display the next web page in the browser history.

Thus at state if the user activates the back button the web browser may display web page B. For instance from the browser history the web browser may determine that the currently viewed web page is web page C. The web browser may then move back one unit in the browser history to find that web page B was the previously displayed web page. Then the web browser may display web page B once again.

As a result at state the web browser displays web page B after the user activates the back button. In the associated browser history web page A web page B and web page C are listed. The arrow to the left of web page B in the browser history indicates that web page B is the currently displayed web page. Thus activating the back button again may result in the web browser displaying web page A. However activating the forward button may result in the web browser displaying web page C.

In some embodiments the features of may be combined to some extent. In doing so the navigation of web pages may more closely resemble that of a physical newspaper or magazine.

For instance a newspaper or magazine may be arranged into several sections such as world news national news local news sports health entertainment technology humor and so on. Each section may include information related to the topic of that section. Typically a reader will read or browse in one section before moving to the next section. Further the reader may prefer to read the sections in a particular order and may choose not to read certain sections.

Additionally transporter component may appear at the bottom of the document 1. Described in more detail in the discussion of transporter component may include one or more selectable items. These selectable items correspond to other sections or sub sections of the same web page below where the user is currently browsing or links to other sections or sub sections or web pages. In some embodiments the selectable items may be depicted as images or other media. These sections and sub sections may relate to various parts of a newspaper or magazine.

Further above transporter component may be a demarcation marker represented by a dotted line. Demarcation marker might not appear visually in the web browser but may instead represent a marker beyond which further forward scrolling may cause a new HTML document to be pre loaded below document 1. For instance when demarcation marker is below the current viewable portion of the document and the user scrolls forward so that demarcation marker enters the viewable portion of document 1 this may trigger the pre loading of another HTML document.

Demarcation marker may be for example 1000 pixels above the bottom of document 1. Alternatively demarcation marker may be anywhere from 500 pixels to 1500 pixels above the bottom of document 1. In some cases a demarcation marker may be some other number of pixels from the bottom of a rendered HTML document.

The new HTML document may represent another logical section or sub section of the web site. For instance keeping with the newspaper analogy the web site s content may be divided into sections and or sub sections including world news national news local news sports health entertainment technology humor and so on. The new section or sub section may be selected for example from one of these categories based on user preference and or some pre established ordering of the sections and or sub sections. Alternatively the new section or sub section may be based on a selected selectable item of a transporter component.

Particularly this new HTML document depicted in state as rendered HTML document 2 document 2 may be requested from the web server by the web browser. After receiving at least a part of the new HTML document the web browser may render this document and then place it in front of document 1 i.e. in the forward scrolling direction . Thus for example in state document 2 is placed below document 1 such that the bottom of document 1 is adjacent to the top of document 2. As part of this process the content of document 2 may be added to the DOM that exists for document 1. Thus the DOM for any given web page may dynamically change and be re calculated based on a user s scrolling activity.

From the user s perspective the pre loading and placement of the new HTML document may occur automatically and or transparently. Thus document 1 and document 2 may appear to the user as one contiguously rendered HTML document. For instance the scroll box in state may be automatically re positioned and or re sized to indicate the position of the viewable portion of these documents relative to the entirety of the documents. Also the user might not notice a delay associated with the retrieval and rendering of document 2.

If the user continues to scroll forward which is in the down direction in the user may view part or all of document 2. Turning to state depicts the user having scrolled forward from state . Thus the web browser displays a viewable portion of document 1 as well as a viewable portion of document 2. The viewable portion of document 1 may include transporter component not shown . In the backward scrolling direction is a non viewable portion of document 1 and in the forward scrolling direction is a non viewable portion of document 2.

The non viewable portion of document 2 may include transporter component which may in turn include the same information as transporter component or may include at least some different information. For instance transporter component may include some of the same selectable items as transporter component but may also include other selectable items or other content as well. Thus different transporter components may be related to different sets of sections or sub sections of content.

State depicts the user having scrolled forward from state such that document 1 is no longer viewable. Doing so may trigger the web browser to discard or remove its representation s of document 1 from the web page as shown in state . One reason for doing so is to reduce the memory and other resource utilization of the web browser or application displaying the web page. This way the web browser or application is more likely to remain responsive and stable and less likely to slow down or exhibit a fault e.g. a crash .

Thus as depicted in state the web page includes document 2 but not document 1 and the top portion of document 2 is viewable whereas the bottom portion is not. Further the scroll box now appears at the top of the scroll bar indicating that the viewable portion is the top of document 2. Alternatively scrolling to the bottom of document 2 or beyond a demarcation marker in document 2 may result in the web browser discarding its representation s of HTML document 1 from memory. As part of this process the content of HTML document 1 may be removed from the DOM. This is another way in which the DOM may dynamically change based on the user s scrolling activity.

The forward scrolling behavior of the web browser as illustrated in states and may be used for backward scrolling as well. Thus for instance if the user scrolls backward e.g. the user scrolls up from state document 1 may be pre loaded and displayed in the backward scrolling direction e.g. above document 2. In this way continuous scrolling in both the forward and backward directions may be implemented. Similar to scrolling in the forward direction scrolling in the backward direction may involve pre loading an HTML document in this case for displaying behind e.g. above the currently displayed HTML document. Further a demarcation marker at which to begin pre loading a new HTML document may exist for scrolling in the backward direction as well. Thus for instance after a user scrolls backward past the demarcation marker the previous document may be pre loaded and or displayed. The demarcation marker may be a threshold number of pixels e.g. 500 1000 or 1500 from the top of the displayed HTML document.

The continuous scrolling feature illustrated in may include making automatic changes to the web browser s browsing history despite the user not activating a link or the web browser s back or forward buttons. For instance as part of the transition from state to state document 1 may be placed in the web browser s browser history as the most recently viewed document and document 2 may be made to be the current document.

Furthermore document 1 and document 2 may each be associated with a different URL. Perhaps as part of the transition from state to state the current URL which may be displayed by the web browser may change from that of document 1 to that of document 2.

This browser history and URL adjustment may occur automatically and or in response to scrolling activity by the user in connection with of one or more HTML documents. Further one or more scripts that are embedded within or associated with these HTML documents may carry out the adjustments. For example the DOM used by the web browser may include one or more application programming interface API calls that allow entries in the browser history to be added edited or deleted. The DOM may also include one or more API calls that allow the current URL displayed by the web browser to be changed. Thus via the DOM a script may be able to control the web browser s browser history and or displayed URL. Alternatively or additionally the DOM and perhaps the web browser s browser history as well may be modified by API functions specific to a particular type of web browser.

In at least some embodiments there may be several demarcation markers e.g. thresholds . For instance when a first document is displayed as the web page and the user scrolls forward past the first demarcation marker a second document may be pre loaded and added to the web page after the first document. Then if the user scrolls past a second demarcation marker the displayed URL may be changed from that of the first document to that of the second document and the first document s URL may be added to the browser s history. Then if the user scrolls past a third demarcation marker the first document may be removed from the displayed web page. Then if the user scrolls past a fourth demarcation marker a third document may be pre loaded and added to the web page after the second document.

The first second third and fourth demarcation markers may follow one another in either the forward or reverse scrolling directions. For instance the second demarcation marker may follow the first demarcation marker the third demarcation marker may follow the second demarcation marker and the fourth demarcation marker may follow the third demarcation marker in the forward scrolling direction or the reverse scrolling direction.

For purposes of simplicity each of the selectable items within a transporter component may be referred to in relation to a section of the web site. However any of these selectable items may alternatively relate to sub sections within a section of the web site sub sub sections within a sub section of the web site and so on. Therefore use of the term section herein may refer to a variety of logical arrangements of information.

Transporter component may appear at the bottom of main page of a web site. Alternatively transporter component may appear in some other location on a web page and or in some other orientation. Transporter component includes as an example four selectable items related to different sections of the web site. For instance assuming that the web site includes news main page may include headlines current stories or other items of general interest. Transporter component may allow the user to navigate to a local news section via local a national news section via national a world news section via world and an entertainment news section via entertainment . Each of local national world and entertainment may include a hyperlink to their respective associated sections as well as an image representing these sections for example.

When the web browser is displaying the local news national news world news or entertainment news section transporter component may once again be displayed at the bottom of the web page. Alternatively sub sections of the displayed section may be represented in a different transporter component.

As an example when the web browser is displaying the local news section transporter component may also be displayed. Transporter component may allow the user to navigate within the local news section via local an events section via events a crime section via crime and a local politics section via local politics . Each of local events crime and local politics may include a hyperlink to their respective associated sections as well as an image representing these sections.

Similarly when the web browser is displaying the national news section transporter component may also be displayed. Transporter component may allow the user to navigate within the national news section via national a politics section via politics a health section via health and a business section via business . Each of national politics health and business may include a hyperlink to their respective associated sections as well as an image representing these sections.

Additionally when the web browser is displaying the world news section transporter component may also be displayed. Transporter component may allow the user to navigate within the world news section via world a Europe section via Europe an Asia section via Asia and an Americas section via The Americas . Each of world Europe Asia and The Americas may include a hyperlink to their respective associated sections as well as an image representing these sections.

Also when the web browser is displaying the entertainment news section transporter component may be displayed. Transporter component may allow the user to navigate within the entertainment news section via entertainment a movies section via movies a TV section via TV and a people section via people . Each of entertainment movies TV and people may include a hyperlink to their respective associated sections as well as an image representing these sections.

These transporter components may interact with the continuous scrolling feature described above. In some embodiments continuous scrolling may occur across web pages referred to in each transporter component. For instance the continuous scrolling feature may make content from local national world and entertainment appear as one continuous web page perhaps via a combination of pre loading browser history rewriting URL rewriting and or other features.

Alternatively or additionally the continuous scrolling feature may make local events crime and local politics appear as if they were one continuous web page. For instance when the user scrolls close to the end of the events section the web browser may pre load the crime section when the user scrolls close to the end of the crime section the web browser may pre load the local politics section and so on. Scrolling in the backward direction may result in similar previously viewed sections being pre loaded.

The continuous scrolling feature may do likewise for the national politics health and business sections the world Europe Asia and The Americas sections and the entertainment movies TV and people sections.

In some implementations the continuous scrolling feature may operate across different transporter components. For example if the user scrolls to the end of the last section in one transporter component e.g. local politics the continuous scrolling feature may then display the first section of another transporter component e.g. national .

Further the user may be able to customize one or more transporter components. Thus the user may be able to indicate which sections that he or she is interested in viewing and possibly the order in which he or she would like to view these items. In some cases the user may be able to define a hierarchy of sections sub sections sub sub sections and so on perhaps based on the general depiction of . Thus any type of linear circular or tree like relationship between sections may be established by the web site and or by the user and the relationship may be implemented by the continuous scrolling feature.

Web sites may include various types of advertisements ads . These ads may take various forms and shapes and may appear in various positions on a web page. For example ads may appear as horizontal banners vertical columns and or arbitrarily sized rectangles or other shapes. Other types of ads may include pop up ads that cause a new window of the web browser to appear on top of the web site window pop under ads that cause a new window of the web browser to appear under the web site window or floating ads that temporarily appear over content of the web site . Additional types of ads with various placements and characteristics are also possible.

Regardless of ad type the content of an ad may be determined at least in part by the identity of the user viewing the ad and or the content of the web page this user is viewing. The identity of the user may be determined for example by an account through which the user logs into the web site. As the user browses across various web pages each may display a different context sensitive ad.

For instance turning back to the user may be viewing document 1 in state . Document 1 may include for example local news for a particular city. Document 1 may also present one or more ads to the user and these ads may be based on the content of document 1. These ads may be for businesses located in the city services that are provided in the city and or may relate to the content of the local news displayed in state . As an example if the local news includes information about how the city s unemployment level is dropping the ads may include content from staffing agencies that help businesses find new employees.

If the user scrolls forward and document 2 is loaded and rendered a different ad may be displayed. Turning to in states and the user may view document 2 which may include for instance national news. Document 2 may also present one or more ads to the user based on the content of document 2. These ads may be for nation wide businesses nation wide services and or may relate to the content of the national news displayed in state or . As an example if the national news includes information about an upcoming presidential election the ads may include content from one or more presidential candidates seeking to obtain the user s vote in the election.

Web pages associated with each section of a transporter component may display different types of ads to the user based on the content of the web pages. The user s age gender marital status purchasing history political leanings or other demographic information may also influence the type of ad displayed on each web page. Therefore even though the continuous scrolling feature may make any number of web pages seem like one contiguous web page multiple ads with varying content may be displayed therein.

In some implementations some or all web pages may share or include a statically positioned ad placeholder that stays in the same general location of the user s web browser even if the user scrolls forward or backward. This ad placeholder may remain in its general position even if the user scrolls forward or backward through one or more rendered HTML documents. Thus even if additional web pages are pre loaded due to scrolling in the forward or backward directions the ad placeholder may remain in the same or approximately the same location on the user s screen. Alternatively for some web pages the ad placeholder might not appear or might not contain an ad.

However even though the ad placeholder may be static or relatively static the ad contained therein may change based on the user s scrolling activities. Thus a new ad may be loaded from a server and rendered within the placeholder. And as discussed above this new ad may be based on the currently displayed or most recently loaded web page.

The operator of the web site may use these ads as a source of revenue. The operator may sell web page ad space to third parties by the ad impression e.g. a loading of an ad for display or a display of an ad on a web page or by the click through the user interacting with the ad perhaps to navigate to the advertiser s web site . Thus by displaying new ads on each web page or section the operator may increase both impressions and click throughs thereby also potentially increasing the operator s ad revenue.

In some embodiments the ads may be loaded from a different server or server cluster than the other web page content. For instance the ads may be loaded from a dedicated ad site which may be operated by the same entity that operates the web site or by another entity.

Some systems may allow the user to change the vertical and or horizontal dimensions of a web browser. Doing so may change the position of one or more elements of a web page. For instance if the width of the web browser is doubled more of the text images and or other content on the web page may be viewable in the web browser. In some situations this may result in the web browser attempting to adjust the viewable portion of the web page so that the user can still see what was viewable before the resizing took place.

In accordance with some of the embodiments herein resizing a web page in such a fashion might also cause a demarcation marker or similar threshold to be passed. As a result another HTML document may be pre loaded and added to the web page. Or put another way a non scrolling activity may have caused behavior that would normally occur due to the user explicitly scrolling in the forward or reverse direction. The user might find the effect confusing. Thus it may be beneficial to prevent such behavior in at least some situations.

Accordingly if the viewable portion of a web page passes a demarcation marker or similar threshold as a result of an activity other than the user s explicit scrolling of the web page the pre loading of another HTML document may be skipped or suppressed. Instead the viewable portion of the web page may be updated e.g. to the top or bottom of the web page and the scroll box may be adjusted to reflect the position of the viewable portion.

Another possible effect of the continuous scrolling feature is that when the user triggers the forward or back buttons of the web browser an HTML document that may have been previously added to and then removed from the web page might be added to the web page once again. This also may cause behavior that the user does not expect.

For example turning back to suppose that the web browser is in state . In this state the scroll box is approximately in the middle of the scroll bar. Thus the web browser is displaying approximately the middle section of the combined documents and which is also the bottom section of document 1.

If the user triggers the web browser s back button the web browser may revert to state . However the web browser might also attempt to keep the scroll box and thus the viewable portion of the web page in approximately the same location. As a result the middle section of document 1 might be displayed. Doing so may change what the user sees perhaps confusing or disrupting the user s reading or viewing of the web page.

To address this the web page may include one or more scripts that adjust the viewable portion of the web page to a different part of document 1 e.g. the top or anywhere other than where the web browser has set the scroll position . For instance while in state these scripts may store where the top of the viewable portion is in relation to the top of each document e.g. a pixel offset from the top or bottom of the documents . Then in state this offset may be restored for document 1.

It should be noted that this is just one example of how web browser behavior might interact with the continuous scrolling feature. Other examples may exist and other ways of compensating for these interactions may be employed.

For sake of simplicity the discussions below focus on the operation of a client device that is executing a web browser. However the processes herein may operate with applications that are not web browsers.

At block of a first document may be requested and received from a server device. At block possibly based on the first document a web page may be rendered for display on the client device. The rendered web page may include a first plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. For example the selectable items may correspond to respective sections of an electronic version of a newspaper or magazine.

At block it may be determined that a scroll position of the rendered web page has a particular characteristic. At block possibly responsive to determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page has the particular characteristic a second document may be requested and received from the server device. The second document may be associated with one or more of the selectable items.

At block the web page may be re rendered for display on the client device. The re rendered web page may include content from the first document and the second document. The re rendered web page may also include a second plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. The second plurality of selectable items may be different from the first plurality of selectable items.

In some embodiments it may be determined that an item of the first plurality of selectable items or of the second plurality of selectable items has been selected. Possibly in response to determining that the item of the first plurality of selectable items or of the second plurality of selectable items has been selected a third document may be requested and received from the server device. The third document may be associated with the selected item. Possibly based on the third document a second web page may be rendered for display on the client device. The rendered second web page may include a third plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. The third plurality of selectable items may be different from the first plurality of selectable items and the second plurality of selectable items.

In further embodiments it may be determined that an item of the first plurality of selectable items or of the second plurality of selectable items has been selected. Possibly in response to determining that the item of the first plurality of selectable items or of the second plurality of selectable items has been selected a third document may be requested and received from the server device. The third document may be associated with the selected item. The web page may be further re rendered for display on the client device. The further re rendered web page may include content from the second document and the third document. The further re rendered web page may also include a third plurality of selectable items corresponding to respective types of web page content. The third plurality of selectable items may be different from the first plurality of selectable items and the second plurality of selectable items.

In some cases the further re rendered web page may represent the second document followed by the third document and might not include content from the first document. Optionally the further re rendered web page may also include content from the first document and may represent the first document followed by the second document and the second document followed by the third document.

Rendering the web page for display on the client device may involve constructing a document object model representation of the first document. Re rendering the web page for display on the client device may involve modifying the document object model representation of the first document to also represent at least some of the second document.

Determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page has the particular characteristic may involve determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page is below a threshold scroll position. Re rendering the web page for display on the client device may involve re rendering the web page to represent the first document followed by the second document.

Alternatively or additionally determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page has the particular characteristic may involve determining that the scroll position of the rendered web page is above a threshold scroll position. Re rendering the web page for display on the client device may involve re rendering the web page to represent the second document followed by the first document.

In some embodiments a first URL associated with the first document may be displayed. After re rendering the web page for display on the client device it may be determined that the scroll position of the re rendered web page has a second particular characteristic. Possibly responsive to determining that the scroll position of the re rendered web page has the second particular characteristic the first URL may be replaced with a second URL that is associated with the second document. The second particular characteristic may involve the re rendered web page no longer displaying content from the first document.

In further embodiments a first URL associated with the first document may be added to a browsing history. After re rendering the web page for display on the client device it may be determined that the scroll position of the re rendered web page has a second particular characteristic. Possibly responsive to determining that the scroll position of the re rendered web page has the second particular characteristic a second URL associated with the second document may be added to the browsing history. The second URL may follow the first URL in the browsing history.

At block of a web page representing a first section of an electronic newspaper or magazine may be displayed on a web browser interface of a client device. The first section as displayed may include a transporter component the transporter component comprising references to a plurality of additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine. At least some of the additional sections may be associated with the first section by a continuous scrolling feature. For example some of the additional sections may be pre loaded into a web page that contains the first section so that these sections combined exhibit continuous scrolling.

At block it may be determined that a particular reference to one of the additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine has been selected. At block possibly in response to determining that the particular reference to one of the additional sections of the electronic newspaper or magazine has been selected a second section of the electronic newspaper or magazine may be requested and received from a server device. The second section may be associated with the particular reference.

At block a representation of the second section may be displayed on the web browser interface of the client device. When the second section is associated with the first section by the continuous scrolling feature the web browser interface may display a modified version of the first web page with the first section followed by the second section. When the second section is not associated with the first section by the continuous scrolling feature the web browser interface may display a second web page including the second section but not including the first section.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

The above detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems devices and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. The example embodiments described herein and in the figures are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

With respect to any or all of the message flow diagrams scenarios and flow charts in the figures and as discussed herein each step block and or communication can represent a processing of information and or a transmission of information in accordance with example embodiments. Alternative embodiments are included within the scope of these example embodiments. In these alternative embodiments for example functions described as steps blocks transmissions communications requests responses and or messages can be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrent or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved. Further more or fewer blocks and or functions can be used with any of the ladder diagrams scenarios and flow charts discussed herein and these ladder diagrams scenarios and flow charts can be combined with one another in part or in whole.

A step or block that represents a processing of information can correspond to circuitry that can be configured to perform the specific logical functions of a herein described method or technique. Alternatively or additionally a step or block that represents a processing of information can correspond to a module a segment or a portion of program code including related data . The program code can include one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or actions in the method or technique. The program code and or related data can be stored on any type of computer readable medium such as a storage device including a disk hard drive or other storage medium.

The computer readable medium can also include non transitory computer readable media such as computer readable media that store data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and random access memory RAM . The computer readable media can also include non transitory computer readable media that store program code and or data for longer periods of time. Thus the computer readable media may include secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media can also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. A computer readable medium can be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

Moreover a step or block that represents one or more information transmissions can correspond to information transmissions between software and or hardware modules in the same physical device. However other information transmissions can be between software modules and or hardware modules in different physical devices.

The particular arrangements shown in the figures should not be viewed as limiting. It should be understood that other embodiments can include more or less of each element shown in a given figure. Further some of the illustrated elements can be combined or omitted. Yet further an example embodiment can include elements that are not illustrated in the figures.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims.

