---

title: System and methods for conducting in vitro experiments
abstract: A system and methods by which in vitro experiments directed to a subject may be managed more efficiently including the more efficient use of a nutrient solution used in certain in vitro experimentation. Certain embodiments of the system and methods may include a retainer in which the subject of the experimentation and a nutrient solution is retainable and a recycling component that facilitates the restoration or reconditioning of the nutrient solution during the period of experimentation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458420&OS=09458420&RS=09458420
owner: The Regents of the University of Colorado, A Body Corporate
number: 09458420
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140911
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 876 664 filed Sep. 11 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under R01 DC 011583 awarded by National Institutes of Health NIH . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is a system and methods by which in vitro experiments directed to a subject may be managed more efficiently. More particularly the present invention is a system and methods that facilitate the more efficient use of the nutrients and the nutrient solution used in certain in vitro experimentation.

Scientists conduct investigations or experiments that are often categorized as in vivo or in vitro . For purposes of this application the term in vivo means in the living and in vivo experiments are experiments conducted using complete living organisms. An example of an in vivo experiment includes administering a drug to a human or a live mouse and observing or testing whether the drug has the intended effect and or any side effects.

The term in vitro means in the glass for example in a test tube or in a petri dish. As such in vitro experiments are experiments conducted not within a non living organism but instead on only part of an organism such as cells or biological molecules or outside the organism s normal biological context.

For purposes of this application the term subject will be used to refer that to which an experiment is directed such as cells groups of cells tissues organs entire organisms or any other biological subject of experimentation.

An advantage of in vivo experiments is that the subject of the experimentation is still operating within the subject s normal biological context e.g. in a population or ecosystem . Accordingly any experimental manipulations performed in vivo are considered to be most representative of the situation under observation or review. However often such experiments are not practical or not considered ethical. Therefore in vitro experiments are sometimes used as a substitute.

For example when a scientist wishes to study a subject in vitro he or she may remove representative cells groups of cells or portion from an organism then observe the isolated subject and possibly introduce some experimental variable. Introducing an experimental variable may include changing something in the surroundings e.g. temperature pressure light conditions concentration of certain chemicals in an aquatic environment or involve the administration of a substance to which a subject is not typically exposed. After introducing the variable the scientist may observe or otherwise assess detect or measure whether any change has occurred in the subject. If there is a change in the subject it may be caused by or at least be correlated with the introduction of the experimental variable.

In certain experiments scientists may attempt to control the factors that are not being studied as the variable in order to minimize or eliminate any effect on the subject caused by those factors. This is generally easier to do in vitro with an isolated subject than in an entire living organism. Scientists may attempt also to simulate the conditions for a subject in vivo and accordingly facilitate observing any effect or correlation resulting from treatment with the variable.

Certain devices have been developed to facilitate controlling the in vitro environment and simulating in vivo conditions. For example when a subject is a cell or a tissue a scientist may wish to observe or treat the subject while it is alive. A cell or tissue subject may need certain chemicals gases nutrients or other requirements to stay alive and possibly grow. Examples of such requirements are glucose or pyruvate for cellular energy sources myo inositol for intracellular calcium control and maintenance of membrane potentials oxygen to sustain the aerobic metabolism or growth factors. Accordingly the device in such circumstances may be in a dish in which the subject cell or cell tissue is positioned in a solution containing at least the chemicals gases and or nutrients that are needed by the subject to be kept in the condition required for the experiment. This solution containing at least the required or critical components will be termed nutrient solution for purposes of this application. Anyone of such required components may be generically identified in this application as a nutrient .

As time passes the cell tissue that is the subject of the experiment may consume one or more of a critical component such as oxygen or glucose from the nutrient solution. Accordingly the concentration of the critical component in the solution may decrease. For example many experimental subjects require oxygen or carbon dioxide to maintain cellular processes. Because the concentration of this gaseous nutrient will decrease over time in the nutrient solution certain known devices are configured to permit the nutrient solution to be bubbled with oxygen or carbon dioxide However many such known devices do not facilitate the atmospheric conditions associated with the nutrient solution to be monitored and managed. As a result the balance of such a critical component relative to the solution may be altered over time and for example the cellular processes to be affected or the pH of the solution to become imbalanced.

Alternatively certain known devices attempt to manage the issue of a loss of one or more critical component in the device over time by permitting the original nutrient solution to be released from the dish after a certain period of time and discarded. Additional nutrient solution may then be permitted to flow into the dish from a storage container. Some other known devices achieve this same goal by establishing a continuous inflow of solution from an external reservoir and matching outflow. In such other known devices fresh nutrient solution enters the device from one side while spent nutrient solution exits the device from the opposite side establishing a continuous unidirectional flow of nutrient solution across the subject of the experiment. While these types of devices and replenishment systems may keep the subject cell or tissue exposed to the necessary components in the appropriate concentration the components of the nutrient solution not consumed by the cell or tissue are discarded generally as waste. Discarding all the nutrient solution including those components that were not consumed altered or made ineffective during the course of the experiment is especially problematic when one or more of the components of the solution are rare expensive or otherwise difficult to mix or maintain.

Whenever nutrient solution is valuable the amount that is used and possibly wasted must be reduced. Certain techniques and devices have been developed in order to achieve this objective some of which are the following. One technique reduces the rate at which solution enters and leaves the device thereby reducing the overall consumption of nutrient solution. Another technique and device does not discard the spent solution exiting the device but instead collects and recycles it.

However many known devices and techniques that seek to improve the efficiencies of in vitro experimentation have one or more disadvantages associated with them. For example the techniques and devices that seek to collect and recycle spent solution largely all require a variety of additional components with which the complete volume of solution that was in the experimental area can exit the area and be held and processed including to add in any nutrient that may have been depleted during the experiment and the processed solution added back into the experimental area. The need for such additional components such as tubing containers and pumps all add to the cost of the experiment. Also in order to establish the needed fluid circulation from the experimental area through these additional collection and recycling components and back to the experimental area a volume of nutrient solution much larger than the amount needed in the immediate experimental area is required. Even the most volume conservative existing devices require a total fluid volume of at least 8 10 ml in order to establish fluid circulation. If the nutrient solution or at least a component of the nutrient solution is rare expensive or otherwise difficult to obtain 8 10 mL may be an amount that is larger than that which can be readily prepared.

Clearly there is a demand for a more efficient and cost effective system and methods to manage the nutrient solutions used in experimentation. The present invention satisfies this demand.

The present invention is a system and methods by which the in vitro experiments directed to a subject may be managed more efficiently. More particularly the present invention is a system and methods that facilitate the more efficient use of the nutrient solution used in certain in vitro experimentation.

Certain embodiments of a retainer according to the present invention are configured to retain the subject of the experiment and a nutrient solution. Examples of a subject of an experiment including a cell or tissue sample is generally identified in this application as subject . A nutrient solution generally has a composition that maintains the subject in the state needed to conduct the experiment.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide what is termed for purposes of this application as a self contained system and related methods that include or utilize a retainer in which the subject of the experiment is positionable and that is configurable to permit the reuse of one or more of the components of the nutrient solution directly within the retainer and without the need for the entire volume of nutrient solution to be withdrawn from the retainer. Such a self contained system and methods may be configured advantageously to reduce disruptions to the subject during the course of the experiment since the nutrient solution may not need to be withdrawn from the retainer. Also certain embodiments of the self contained system and methods are configurable to eliminate the need for the conventional additional storage container pump or tube components that form a portion of for known systems that recycle the complete volume of nutrient solution used for in vitro experimentation. Because the certain self contained embodiments of the present invention do not require largely more nutrient solution that is necessary to conduct the experiment the overall cost of each experiment is lower than those conducted with conventional systems and methods. That an amount of an expensive nutrient may be unexpectedly confined to or lost in the tubing or other components needed in conventional systems that recycle the nutrient solution is eliminated.

In order to permit certain embodiments of the present invention to operate as a self contained system as that term is defined for purposes of this application that is one in which the nutrient solution needed for an experiment is largely reused without leaving it the retainer embodiments of the present invention may include components that restore one or more of the nutrients that may be depleted during the course of the experiment all without the need to remove the larger portion of the nutrient solution within the retainer. An example of a nutrient that may be added to the nutrient solution within the retainer is oxygen. A retainer may be sized and shaped to operate with an restoration component configured to increase the nutrient depleted or lost during the experiment such as the oxygen level in the solution such as through the use of external tubing. By permitting the nutrient solution to be reused in place in the retainer and any nutrient that was depleted during the experimentation to be restored to the solution for example if a gas was depleted during the experiment by enriching it with gas directly in the retainer the total amount of nutrient solution required to maintain the subject of the experiment is reduced significantly below the 8 10 mL amount conventionally required in certain known devices. Advantageously certain embodiments of the present invention can reduce the total volume required for an experiment to about 1.6 to 2.5 ml total.

Additional embodiments of the present invention may include a retainer that includes a removal element that facilitates the removal or release of some component that has developed in the nutrient solution during the course of the experiment such as another gas carbon dioxide.

Certain embodiments of the present invention also may include a controller component configured to permit manage and control at least one nutrient level in the solution.

One objective of certain embodiments of the present invention is to provide a system and methods for which the amount of nutrients and the volume of nutrient solution needed to keep the subject of an experiment alive is minimized.

Another objective of certain embodiments of the present invention is to provide a system and methods for which the need for additional recycling containers tubes or external pumps to manage a nutrient solution during the course of an experiment is largely eliminated.

An additional objective of certain embodiments of the present invention is to optimize the circulation of nutrient solution during the course of an experiment.

The present invention and its attributes and advantages will be further understood and appreciated with reference to the detailed description below of presently contemplated embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments of the present invention include a system having a subject retainer also termed retainer for purposes of this application and a restoration component as illustrated in . Embodiments of the present invention may include a system having also a controller component as illustrated in .

A retainer may be configured to retain at least the subject of the experiment and the volume of a nutrient solution needed to conduct the experiment on the subject. Certain embodiments of the retainer may be sized and shaped such that the retainer is similarly sized and shaped to a standard glass slide. Advantageously such a sized and shaped retainer allows the subject of the experiment to be easily viewed under a microscope that is configured to receive a standard glass slide.

The retainer may include a retainer wall certain embodiments of which may include at least side wall and a bottom wall that made from a material or materials and are configured to form a retainer space A in which a nutrient solution not shown may be retained and the experimentation subject positioned. In the self contained embodiments of the present invention the retainer space A that is formed by at least side wall and bottom wall is sized and shaped to receive and retain the volume of nutrient solution that is appropriate for the subject nature and length of the experiment. An experiment conducted on a certain subject may be of such a short length that the retainer space A may be sized to hold a smaller amount of nutrient solution while another experiment on another subject may take longer and therefore may require a larger retainer space A that can accommodate a larger volume of nutrient solution.

The side wall may include a first retainer side wall A second retainer side wall B third retainer side wall C and a fourth retainer side wall D. The retainer also may include a retainer bottom wall . In certain embodiments the retainer bottom wall may be configured to provide a uniplanar upper surface as illustrated in . In other embodiments the retainer bottom wall may include other surface configurations including those having not a uniplanar bottom upper surface for example ones in which at least a portion of the bottom upper surface is generally vertical generally curved or generally slanted. To illustrate the embodiment shown in includes a first bottom upper surface A and a second bottom upper surface B each of which are generally horizontal bottom surfaces. In certain such embodiments such as the embodiment shown in the first bottom upper surface A is positioned in a different plane than the second bottom upper surface B with a third bottom upper surface C configured as a generally vertical surface that connects the two generally horizontal surfaces A and B.

The retainer bottom wall may be made from one or more materials and configured to be generally transparent to permit the illumination of the subject from below or viewing a background below or behind the retainer bottom wall . To facilitate such illumination or viewing the retainer may include a lower support element D that may include a clear component D and a bottom plate D such as shown in . In another embodiment the lower support element D can form a generally continuous component.

Certain embodiments of the present invention include a restoration component configured to restore at least one nutrient in the nutrient solution. In certain experiments and with certain embodiments of the present invention oxygen may be the nutrient of those in the nutrient solution that is most likely to be depleted during the course of the experiment. Oxygen may be depleted more quickly than other nutrients because it may be consumed not only by the subject but also may be lost to the atmosphere during the course of the experiment. Accordingly certain embodiments of the present invention may include a restoration component that includes an oxygenation component that facilitates adding oxygen to the nutrient solution. An oxygenation component may include a gas cylinder shown in and and a delivery component . Certain embodiments of the delivery component include an oxygen distribution element and a solution exchange element to which a cover A may be added.

As shown in certain embodiments of the present invention may include an oxygen distribution element that is tubular in construction and having an oxygen input end A a solution input element B and a combination output end C. The oxygen input end B may be configured to receive oxygen or another nutrient from the gas cylinder . The solution input element B may include a rim defining an aperture B through which nutrient solution may enter the oxygen distribution element . Advantageously the oxygen may mix with the nutrient solution generally inside the oxygen distribution element nearby the solution input element B in an area called the solution exchange element . With such mixing oxygen enriched nutrient solution may then be released through the output end C into the retainer space A. A fine mesh a grid or other similar devices can be inserted or installed to the recycling output or other parts of the recycling system to reduce gas bubbles or other disturbance to improve the oxygen enrichment or the solution circulation and recirculation process.

As shown in the delivery component also may include a liquid transfer component . The liquid transfer component may include a liquid input element A oxygen delivery receiving opening B and a solution exchange holder C.

Each end of the tubular oxygen distribution element shown in may be designed to permit the mix of oxygen air and nutrient solution liquid flow out of the combination output end C while simultaneously sucking the liquid up into the oxygen delivery component from the other liquid transfer component . The result may be a jet that facilitates the propulsion of the nutrient solution into a circulatory motion around the retainer space A.

Certain embodiments of the present invention may include one or more circulation components that facilitate the circulation of a solution within a retainer used for example for experimentation. Certain embodiments of the circulation components include one or more protrusion elements including protrusion surfaces and a guiding component . As illustrated in two of the opposing side walls e.g. the first retainer side wall A and third retainer side wall C may include a protrusion wall element . The size and shape of the protrusion wall elements may be configured to not only facilitate the circulation of the nutrient solution but also to define the volume of the retainer A and therefore the amount of nutrient solution needed to fill the retainer space A. Each protrusion wall element includes a protrusion surface that depending on the circulation effect that is sought may have a single configuration or a plurality of configurations. The embodiment illustrated in includes a protrusion wall element having a protrusion surface with a first protrusion surface A a second protrusion surface B and a third protrusion surface C. In the embodiment the first protrusion surface A is vertical and generally not curved the second protrusion surface B is vertical and generally curved and the third protrusion surface C is in a vertical plane that is different but connects with the planes in which the first protrusion surface A and second protrusion surface B are positioned. The retainer may include one or more additional protrusion wall elements . The embodiment illustrated in includes a second protrusion wall element that extends the surface of the surface C of the side wall into the retainer space A having a fourth protrusion surface . In the embodiment illustrated in the fourth protrusion surface is configured as a generally curved vertical surface. Such features of the walls that define the retainer space facilitate the effective circulation of nutrient solution and a circulation pattern that is stable for a wide range of fluid circulation speeds. The arrows in illustrate an example of such circulatory motion that may be developed within the retainer space A.

To further facilitate the solution circulation within the retainer certain embodiments of the present invention may include a guiding component . Certain embodiments of the guiding component may be positioned to extend from the retainer bottom wall and to facilitate the generally circular motion of the nutrient solution around the retainer space . The guiding component may be of any shape to facilitate such circulation including any polygon or wave type shape and to define the amount of nutrient solution that is required to fill the retainer space A.

In certain embodiments of the present invention a second retainer side wall B includes a groove component configured to receive some portion or component of the restoration component .

In addition to a restoration component certain embodiments of the present invention may include a mini motor to enhance the propulsion of the liquid between the liquid input element A and the combination output end C.

The subject retainer also may be configured to include a byproducts component configured to extract or release byproducts generated by the subject of the experiment from the solution. However in embodiments that form a closed system and accordingly do not include a byproducts component the ratio of byproduct built up to solution is one of the limiting factors for minimizing the amount of nutrient solution to maintain a functioning system.

In addition to a subject retainer certain embodiments of the present invention may include a controller component as part of the system . A controller component is configured to permit controlling one or more nutrient levels in a nutrient solution. For example the controller component may permit a user to turn on or turn off the oxygenation component or regulate the temperature bath level of the nutrient solution or speed of a mini motor. Examples of a controller component include a computer system or a cloud computing system.

Certain embodiments of a subject retainer may be manufactured using a three dimensional printer casting injection molding machining or other process appropriate for the specific embodiment being manufactured.

Certain embodiments of a subject retainer may contain sensors or transducers such as oxygen sensors PH sensors glucose sensors water level sensors and other sensors to allow monitoring the conditions of the device.

Computer system includes an input output display interface connected to communication infrastructure such as a bus which forwards data such as graphics text and information from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown to other components of the computer system . The input output display interface may be for example a keyboard touch screen joystick trackball mouse monitor speaker printer any other computer peripheral device or any combination thereof capable of entering and or viewing data.

Computer system includes one or more processors which may be a special purpose or a general purpose digital signal processor that processes certain information. Computer system also includes a main memory for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM mass storage device or any combination thereof. Computer system may also include a secondary memory such as a hard disk unit a removable storage unit or any combination thereof. Computer system may also include a communication interface for example a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card or Ethernet cable a communication port a PCMCIA slot and card wired or wireless systems such as Wi Fi Bluetooth Infrared local area networks wide area networks intranets etc.

It is contemplated that the main memory secondary memory communication interface or a combination thereof function as a computer usable storage medium otherwise referred to as a computer readable storage medium to store and or access computer software including computer instructions. For example computer programs or other instructions may be loaded into the computer system such as through a removable storage device for example a floppy disk ZIP disks magnetic tape portable flash drive optical disk such as a CD or DVD or Blu ray Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS nano technological apparatus. Specifically computer software including computer instructions may be transferred from the removable storage unit or hard disc unit to the secondary memory or through the communication infrastructure to the main memory of the computer system .

The computer system can also be designed using other embedded miniaturized or single chip computer techniques such as using System on a Chip system i.e. Raspberry Pi Field Programming Gate Array FPGA system programmable soft CPU core stand alone Digital Signal Processors DSP or other similar techniques to implement computer algorithm to control the system or the recycling process. The computer algorithm can simply be turning the oxygen gas on and off based on the reading of the sensors placed inside or outside of the device. Or other sophisticated computer algorithms such as Proportional Integral Derivative PID Fourier Transform Lapace Transform Principal Component Analysis PCA or other control algorithms or implementations to control the device or recycling process.

Communication interface allows software instructions and data to be transferred between the computer system and external devices or external networks. Software instructions and or data transferred by the communication interface are typically in the form of signals that may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being sent and received by the communication interface . Signals may be sent and received using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link a Radio Frequency RF link wireless link or other communication channels.

Computer programs when executed enable the computer system particularly the processor to implement the methods of the invention according to computer software including instructions.

The computer system described herein may perform any one of or any combination of the steps of any of the methods presented herein. It is also contemplated that the methods according to the invention may be performed automatically or may be invoked by some form of manual intervention.

The computer system of is provided only for purposes of illustration such that the invention is not limited to this specific embodiment. It is appreciated that a person skilled in the relevant art knows how to program and implement the invention using any computer system.

The computer system may be a handheld device and include any small sized computer device including for example a personal digital assistant PDA smart hand held computing device cellular telephone or a laptop or netbook computer hand held console or MP3 player tablet or similar hand held computer device such as an iPad iPad Touch or iPhone .

Specifically the cloud computing system includes at least one client computer . The client computer may be any device through the use of which a distributed computing environment may be accessed to perform the methods disclosed herein for example a traditional computer portable computer mobile phone personal digital assistant tablet to name a few. The client computer includes memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM mass storage device or any combination thereof. The memory functions as a computer usable storage medium otherwise referred to as a computer readable storage medium to store and or access computer software and or instructions.

The client computer also includes a communications interface for example a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card wired or wireless systems etc. The communications interface allows communication through transferred signals between the client computer and external devices including networks such as the Internet and cloud data center . Communication may be implemented using wireless or wired capability such as cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link radio waves or other communication channels.

The client computer establishes communication with the Internet specifically to one or more servers to in turn establish communication with one or more cloud data centers . A cloud data center includes one or more networks managed through a cloud management system . Each network includes resource servers respectively. Servers permit access to a collection of computing resources and components that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. For example one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications or software.

The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools to communicate with one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers . The cloud management system may be configured to query and identify the computing resources and components managed by the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center . Specifically the cloud management system may be configured to identify the hardware resources and components such as type and amount of processing power type and amount of memory type and amount of storage type and amount of network bandwidth and the like of the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center . Likewise the cloud management system can be configured to identify the software resources and components such as type of Operating System OS application programs and the like of the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center .

For certain experiments that run for prolonged periods of time overnight to several days a sensor may measure the concentration of certain nutrients in the solution for example oxygen. Information regarding the oxygen concentration may be fed into a computer system which may then depending on the existing oxygen levels increase or decrease the oxygen flow. The computer system may also record and document the nutrient concentrations as a function over time to provide assurance that the concentrations were in fact kept constant. Data can also be stored in cloud networks and accessed by the researcher offsite via computers or mobile devices. Remote access also allows the investigator to dial in adjustments as needed.

The present invention is also directed to computer products otherwise referred to as computer program products to provide software to the cloud computing system . Computer products store software on any computer useable medium known now or in the future. Such software when executed may implement the methods according to certain embodiments of the invention. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS nano technological storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. . It is to be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be implemented using software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

The cloud computing system of is provided only for purposes of illustration and does not limit the invention to this specific embodiment. It is appreciated that a person skilled in the relevant art knows how to program and implement the invention using any computer system or network architecture.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have been described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the particular embodiments disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

