---

title: Determining downstream load in a distribution network
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for calculating a downstream load in a power distribution network. A power distribution network may comprise smart meters capable of communicating readings describing power consumed by a customer to a monitoring computing device. A downstream load may be determined by the monitoring computing device for a point in the power distribution network using an average power determined for devices downstream from the point in the power distribution network. The average power for the devices downstream may be determined utilizing the readings received from the smart meters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09528854&OS=09528854&RS=09528854
owner: Southern Company Services, Inc.
number: 09528854
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140702
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 944 630 filed on Feb. 26 2014 and entitled DETERMINING DOWNSTREAM LOAD IN A DISTRIBUTION NETWORK the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Existing solutions for calculating a downstream load in a distribution network utilize a load at a substation electrical properties of the various wire sizes used in the distribution network generalized assumptions made about transformer loading and an estimated line loss in the network. However because these solutions do not use individual customer data they rely on general assumptions about transformer loading. For example transformer loading may be generalized at an 80 loading capacity to account for downstream customers fed from the transformer. The assumptions made in calculating a downstream load only provide an educated guess and do not provide an accurate understanding of current system loading.

A smart meter such as an advanced metering infrastructure AMI meter is an electronic device capable of measuring residential and commercial consumption of electric use for one or more buildings. AMI meters may be capable of one way or two way communication whereby the measured residential or commercial consumption may be transmitted to a utility company for billing purposes.

The present disclosure relates to calculating a downstream load for one or more devices and or locations in a distribution network. Traditionally utility companies such as telecommunication and power companies have a computer model reflecting infrastructure that exists at various locations of a telecommunication or electrical grid. For example the computer model may resemble the location and capabilities of transformers conduit electrical cables etc. in the field. This computer model is traditionally made available in a geographic information system GIS for use in calculating an amount of electricity that flows through a piece of equipment referred to as a load calculation determining which devices in the field that may be used to open or close to re route power referred to as switching and aggregating information coming from customers who report that they have a power outage to predict what device has caused the power outage referred to as outage management .

Conventionally customers are associated with or otherwise linked to a transformer in the computer model so that it is known which transformer a customer is connected to in the field. This customer association may be stored in various systems such as for example a customer information system CIS . Connecting a new customer to an electrical grid requires personnel to manually enter a meter number and a transformer identifier into a computer for use by the CIS. As may be appreciated the transformer identifier may correspond to the transformer in the field that provides power to the new customer.

Traditionally calculating a downstream load in a distribution network utilizes a load at a substation electrical properties of the various wire sizes used in the distribution network generalized assumptions made about transformer loading and an estimated line loss in the network. Similarly calculating an estimated peak in power consumption employs diversity factors to account for all customers not reaching a peak at the same time. However because these solutions do not use individual customer data they rely on general assumptions and do not accurately represent a current state of consumption in the field. For example transformer loading may be generalized at an 80 loading capacity to account for downstream customers fed from the transformer while in reality the transformer may have a loading capacity substantially different than 80 . The assumptions made in calculating a downstream load only provide an educated guess and do not provide an accurate understanding of current system loading.

With the emergence of smart meters customers in a network may have an AMI meter or a similar smart meter. The usage reported by the meter is an amount of energy consumed by a customer since the meter was reset. According to various embodiments an AMI meter communicates over a wireless fidelity Wi Fi or a radiofrequency RF network.

It is beneficial to utilize data obtained for AMI meters in a distribution network to calculate a downstream load accurately representing a current state of the distribution network as a whole or more specifically the current state of a location in the distribution network. According to various embodiments an average power may be calculated using the periodic readings obtained from the AMI meter for a respective customer. Given an average power of each customer in a portion of a distribution network the average power reading obtained from each customer may be aggregated to calculate the downstream load in kilowatts KW at any point on the distribution network. Similarly the downstream load may be employed to detect theft. By adding up the load of the AMI meters downstream from a device it is possible to compare the billable power from AMI to the actual power consumed. The difference between the two is a power loss that may be a result of theft.

With respect to shown is a non limiting example of a power distribution network employed in calculating a downstream load for one or more customers devices and or locations in the power distribution network . The power distribution network may comprise a networked environment such as a cellular network a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN the Internet or any similar network.

As may be appreciated the power distribution network comprises one or more customers . . . collectively customers that receive a product or service from a utility company . For example one or more of the customers may receive power from a transformer maintained by the utility company via an electrical line connected to a residence of the customer . Smart meters . . . collectively smart meters are capable of reading a usage of the power obtained from the utility company at each location of the customers .

According to various embodiments the smart meters may comprise AMI meters Automatic Meter Reading AMR meters any other similar smart meters and a combination thereof. As may be appreciated the smart meters may be configured to communicate the power consumed by each customer as meter usage data to one or more access points . To this end the access points comprise a wired access point e.g. a network switch or a wireless access point e.g. a wireless router radio frequency RF receiver capable of receiving the meter usage data from one or more smart meters and communicating the meter usage data to a server over a network .

Generally the meter usage data may comprise the power consumed by each customer as well as meter identification data that may be used to authenticate and identify one or more smart meters . Further the meter usage data may comprise the power consumed by each customer at predefined and or random time intervals. To this end the meter usage data may comprise a power reading associated with a timestamp as will be discussed in greater detail below.

According to various embodiments the frequency of the readings transmitted from the smart meters as meter usage data can be predefined and or configured by a system administrator for example via server or a technician in the field. Accordingly the readings from the smart meters may be configured to be transmitted for example daily hourly or every fifteen minutes. A non limiting example of meter usage data produced by one of the smart meters is shown below in Table 1.

Using the meter usage data as well as known characteristics of particular infrastructure in the network the server may execute a monitoring application capable of calculating a downstream load for any point in the network using at least the meter usage data associated with that point. For example for the transformer having downstream customers . . . the meter usage data obtained from the customers . . . may be used to determine an instantaneous power for each customer as will be described in greater detail below.

A summation of the instantaneous power determined for each customer . . . may reflect the downstream load for the transformer . Further the server may compute the downstream load while accounting for the known characteristics in the downstream infrastructure such as line loss in a transmission line a distribution line etc. The server may communicate the downstream load to a client device for rendering in a display as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Moving on to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments that may be implemented in to the power distribution network of . The networked environment includes a server a client device and a smart meter which are in data communication with each other via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks. For example such networks may comprise satellite networks cable networks Ethernet networks and other types of networks.

The server may comprise for example a single server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the server may employ a plurality of computing devices that may be arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the server may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a hosted computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the server may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the server according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the server . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the server for example include a topology tracer application a monitoring application a web service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The topology tracer application is executed to identify existing infrastructure downstream from a predefined location in a power distribution network . For example given that the predefined location comprises a transformer the topology tracer application is executed to identify all downstream infrastructure e.g. subsequent transformers smart meters at residences and or upstream infrastructure e.g. power stations . By identifying the downstream infrastructure a load may be determined for the transformer using smart meters fed by the transformer .

The monitoring application is executed to receive a plurality of readings from the smart meters as meter usage data over the network . Further the monitoring application is executed to determine a downstream load using for example an instantaneous and or average power determined for each smart meter located in the power distribution network .

The web service is executed to provide a medium for communication between the server and the client device over the network . To this end the web service may comprise a network based application programming interface API embodied in software that facilitates programmatic service calls e.g. API calls made by the client device to communicate with the topology tracer application the monitoring application and or other services or applications not described herein. According to various embodiments the network based API may further comprise a representational state transfer REST or a simple object access protocol SOAP API. Further the web service may enable communication between the topology tracer application and the monitoring application .

The data stored in the data store includes for example power distribution network data customer data and potentially other data. The power distribution network data may comprise information associated with the topology of the power distribution network . To this end a topology may comprise a computer model reflecting existing previously existing and or planned utility infrastructure in a network as well as locations addresses identifiers capabilities and or any other information associated with equipment in the power distribution network . The customer data may comprise information associated with a customer such as meter data and account data . Meter data may include a power usage history for the customer an identifier for a smart meter associated with the customer etc. Account data may comprise location and or payment information associated with the customer including but not limited to an address an account number a payment history etc.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays electrophoretic ink E ink displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a client application and or other applications. The client application may be executed in the client device for example to access network content served up by the server and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . To this end the client application may comprise for example a browser a dedicated application etc. and the user interface may comprise a network page an application screen etc. The client device may be configured to execute applications beyond the client application such as for example email applications social networking applications word processors spreadsheets and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin it is assumed a customer e.g. a business or a residence receives power from a utility company via a distribution line connected to a residence of the customer . The smart meters are configured to measure a usage of power obtained from the utility company at each residence of the customers .

The smart meters communicate readings as meter usage data to the server over the network at for example predefined intervals or in response to a request from a requesting device e.g. the server or a handheld device employed by technicians in the field . As may be appreciated the meter usage data may comprise a power consumed by the customer as well as a timestamp associated with the power consumed . In various embodiments the meter usage data may further comprise meter identification data that may be used to authenticate and identify one or more smart meters .

The monitoring application uses the meter usage data to determine a downstream load for a location or device in the power distribution network . The location or the device may be defined by a user or an operator of the client device via the user interface as will be discussed in greater detail below. The monitoring application communicates with the topology tracer application to identify existing infrastructure downstream from the location in the power distribution network . For example given that the predefined location comprises a transformer the topology tracer application is executed to identify all infrastructure downstream from the transformer e.g. subsequent transformers smart meters at residences . By identifying the downstream infrastructure the downstream load may be calculated for the transformer using at least a summation of instantaneous and or average powers determined for each customer downstream of the transformer using the meter usage data sent by the smart meters .

To calculate the downstream load for the transformer at a given point in the power distribution network may require for example determining an instantaneous power and or average power for each customer downstream from the transformer . The instantaneous power may be calculated to be equal to a derivative of energy with respect to time. Essentially the instantaneous power may be calculated as the rate of change of energy with time at any point in time as shown below in eq. 1.

In eq. 1 the instantaneous power P may be approximated by taking a change in energy during a given period of time and dividing by the given period of time. This gives an average power P over that period of time. As may be appreciated the shorter the period of time between readings the closer the average is to the instantaneous power.

With readings every hour the average power during that hour can be readily calculated by the monitoring application . By employing eq. 1 energy is determined in a unit of KWH. To obtain an average power in KW for a given range of time the energy calculated in KWH may be divided by the given range of time in hours. Assuming readings are transmitted by the smart meters and are obtained by the server every hour the KWH is divided by one hour. However due to losses in the networked environment readings from the smart meters may not be received for example due to wired or wireless connectivity problems.

If a reading is missing or is inaccessible for a period of time the monitoring application may account for a difference in readings by dividing the average power by for example two hours and so forth and the average power may be determined. Because the time difference is increased a variance of the average power may increase from the instantaneous power. Yet this strategy may be employed to account for readings not received from the smart meters . In another example if the smart meters are configured to transmit readings every 15 minutes the difference in readings would be divided by 0.25 hours. In sum the monitoring application produces the average power for a single smart meter for a point in time.

Once the average power for each of the downstream smart meters has been determined the loading from each smart meter can be calculated and the results of the downstream infrastructure may be added. As may be appreciated various smart meters may only report in certain units of time. However if the smart meters only report in usage in a unit of KWH then the unit of KW can be calculated. Similarly if all of the smart meters report usage in kilovolt amp hours KVAH kilovolt amp reactive hours KVARH or as a power factor PF in addition to KWH more units can be determined. For example KVAH and KVARH can be converted to KVA and KVAR using the same methodology as KW. Given two out of the four units KW KVA KVAR and PF the other two units can be calculated as shown below in eq. 2 

As it is possible to calculate KW and KVAR for each customer the KW and KVAR can be added. Based on the sum the KVA and PF at that point on the network can be calculated using eq. 2. It is important to note that the total KVA is not the sum of the downstream KVAs. For example if the customers are identified by phase then the sums are calculated on a per phase basis to determine the downstream load on each phase at any point on the power distribution network .

Further the monitoring application may be executed to calculate peak loading at a point on the power distribution network . To determine the peak loading each hour in a time interval is calculated providing samples of the loading at that point over a period of time. The maximum load of all those calculated is taken as the maximum load at that point on the power distribution network . In some situations it is not advisable to add the maximums of the usage for each customer to find a maximum loading as customers generally do not all reach their individual peaks at the same time. Instead a peak loading may be calculated as set forth below in eq. 3. max max eq. 3 .

As shown in eq. 3 max P represents the unlikely event of all customers hitting a maximum peak at the same time. Instead the peak loading P should be determined as max P . The monitoring application may subsequently send the downstream load as application data to the client device thereby permitting a user of the client device to view the downstream load for the predefined location in the power distribution network . The application data may further comprise map data that may be shown in association with load data comprising for example the downstream load as will be discussed in greater detail below.

Referring next to shown is a drawing of a user interface that may be generated in the client application according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In the non limiting example of the user interface may comprise a topology map representing infrastructure existing in a physical power distribution network . For example the topology map may comprise plat numbers representing zones or locations of a city or county. Further the topology map may comprise identifiers such as roads easements and other identifiers. The infrastructure of the power distribution network may be shown in the topology map . For example a substation and a smart meter may represent a physical substation and a physical smart meter corresponding to a customer .

The user interface may comprise customer data associated with a portion of the topology map shown above. To this end the user may be able to quickly associate the smart meter shown in the topology map with an actual customer . In addition by manipulating the determine load component the user may cause the monitoring application to determine the downstream load for a corresponding point in the power distribution network . For example the monitoring application may be leveraged to determine the downstream load that may be rendered in the user interface subsequent to the manipulation of the determine load component by the user.

Turning now to shown is a drawing of a user interface that may be generated in the client application according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In the non limiting example of the user interface may comprise the topology map shown from a higher level representing infrastructure existing in the physical power distribution network . A plurality of smart meters . . . may be topologically traced by the user interface to determine a downstream load for the transformer . The smart meters . . . included in a topology tracing may be used to determine the downstream load while those excluded in the topological tracing may be excluded from the downstream load .

The user interface may further comprise customer data associated with the smart meters . . . included in the topology tracing . To this end the user may be able to quickly associate the smart meters . . . shown in the topology map with an actual customer . The monitoring application may be leveraged to determine the downstream load rendered in the user interface .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the monitoring application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the monitoring application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of elements of a method implemented in the server according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with readings of power usage may be received periodically from the smart meters e.g. AMI meters . According to various embodiments the smart meters may communicate the readings as meter usage data at predefined intervals e.g. every hour every fifteen minutes with a timestamp . The readings may be stored in the data store in association with a corresponding one of the smart meters from which a reading is obtained. Similarly the readings may be stored in association with a corresponding one of the customers .

Next in a location in the power distribution network is received from for example the user interface rendered in the client device . The location may comprise for example a location of a device in the power distribution network e.g. a transformer . As discussed above the monitoring application uses the meter usage data to determine a downstream load for a location or device in the power distribution network .

In the monitoring application communicates with the topology tracer application to identify existing infrastructure downstream from the location in the power distribution network . For example given that the location received in comprises a transformer the topology tracer application is executed to identify all infrastructure downstream from the transformer e.g. subsequent transformers smart meters at residences . By identifying the downstream infrastructure a load may be determined for the transformer using at least a summation of average power for each device in the downstream infrastructure.

As a non limiting example to accurately calculate the downstream load for a transformer at a given point in a power distribution network may require for example determining the average power for each customer downstream from transformer . Accordingly in an average power is determined for each device in the downstream infrastructure. The average power may be determined for a customer utilizing the readings obtained from the smart meter of the customer .

According to various embodiments the customers may be identified in association with a corresponding one of the smart meters using customer data . Once the smart meters have been identified the average power for each smart meter can be calculated and the results of the downstream infrastructure may be added. According to various embodiments the summation may be conducted on a per phase basis to calculate a loading on each phase at any point in the power distribution network .

Subsequently in the downstream load may be sent by the monitoring application to the client device as application data thereby permitting a user of the client device to view the downstream load for the predefined location in the power distribution network . The application data may further comprise map data that may be shown in association with load data as shown in the user interfaces of .

According to various embodiments the monitoring application may comprise an application implemented in a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system. In alternative embodiments the monitoring application may be implemented in non SCADA systems. As may be appreciated a load on a fuse or the transformer is unable to be calculated using a SCADA system because the fuse and the transformer are generally not SCADA compliant devices. The monitoring application may continue to calculate the load on any device or line segment because it does not rely on sensors or meters located at the fuse or the transformer instead relying on a calculation using measurements obtained from a smart meter at the business or residence of the customer .

Further the solutions described herein may work from the opposite side of the power distribution network . For example instead of working from the substation out to the customer calculations are made from the customer back upstream to a point on the power distribution network thereby accounting for actual loads measured for each customer downstream. Calculating a load at a point on the power distribution network has extremely broad implications. For example sizing transformers is based on estimated guessing. A monthly bill of a customer was multiplied by a statistical factor to try to determine a peak load of the customer . By accurately measuring an actual peak sizing transformers may be achieved more accurately.

The load on the power distribution network is also important in switching. When moving a load from one distribution line to another it is important to know the load of both lines so that when moving load a distribution line does not get overloaded. Thus an accurate load calculation prevents creating additional problems and improves reliability. In addition when designing the power distribution network it is important in system planning to know loads so that the right size equipment can be installed to handle that load.

Thus according to various embodiments a system may comprise a plurality of AMI meters in data communication with a monitoring computing device over a power distribution network and a monitoring application executed in the monitoring computing device. The monitoring application when executed causes the monitoring computing device to periodically receive a plurality of readings at a predefined interval from a respective one of the AMI meters the respective one of the AMI meters corresponding to a predefined location in the power distribution network determining an average power for the predefined location utilizing the readings received from the respective one of the AMI meters and calculating a downstream load for the power distribution network at the predefined location in the power distribution network .

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the server according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The server may include one or more computing devices wherein each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the topology tracer application the monitoring application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the topology tracer application the monitoring application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the monitoring application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the topology tracer application and the monitoring application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

Further any logic or application described herein including the topology tracer application and the monitoring application may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

