---

title: Automatic seamless context sharing across multiple devices
abstract: Embodiments of a system and method for automatic context sharing across multiple devices are generally described herein. In some embodiments, an application context information transfer technique is provided that is capable of detecting when the user is moving away from or towards a stationary or fixed-location computing device, and transferring application context information to or from a mobile device. The application content information transferred between devices may include information that allows the user to continue a computing device activity on the mobile device or continue mobile device activity on the computing device, such as editing a document, reading a website article, or viewing a streaming video. The techniques described herein may be used to automate the transfer of such application context information between devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09219987&OS=09219987&RS=09219987
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09219987
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141017
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 679 261 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 880 051 filed Nov. 16 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations in mobile and fixed location computing systems and devices. Some embodiments relate to context sharing between multiple systems and devices.

Many people interact with more than one computing device each day. Some of these devices are stationary or positioned at fixed locations including desktop computers workstations personal data servers and televisions. Some of these devices are mobile including cellular telephones tablet computers Ultrabook computers laptop computers and music players.

When a user moves away from a stationary computing device but wants to continue to use an application the user usually locks or shuts down the stationary device and starts a related application afresh on the mobile device. Similarly when a user arrives at a stationary computing device but wants to continue to use an application from a mobile device the user usually locks or shuts down the mobile device application and begins a similar application afresh on the stationary device. For example consider a scenario where a user may be reading a web page article on a home desktop computer but leaves for the office before he or she can finish reading the article. If the user wishes to continue reading the article on his or her mobile smartphone with internet browsing capability the user will manually enter the web page article address and must find his or her location within the article.

Although manual transfer of application context information is possible this manual transfer can be time consuming and requires additional steps and configuration by the user. Additionally while a user may know when he or she is about to leave a stationary computing device a transfer of application context information may not automatically occur in response to a change of the user s location.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein provide for automatic application context sharing across multiple computing devices with considerations for device capabilities and user preferences. Application context may include summarized or detailed information about activities performed and applications executing on a computing device such as the location or position within a document being edited the Universal Resource Locator URL of a webpage being accessed or the time up to which a streaming or downloaded video has been viewed.

With existing technologies when a user is editing a document on a stationary or fixed location computing device the user must manually transfer the document and start a compatible application on a mobile device if the user wants to continue to edit the document on the mobile device after leaving the stationary or fixed location device. Similarly if a user watches part of an online streaming video on a stationary computer or television the user must manually locate the video using the mobile device and manually seek the same location within the video.

In some of the embodiments described herein an application context information transfer may detect when the user is physically moving a mobile device away from a stationary or fixed location computing device or vice versa to determine appropriate timing for transferring application context information between the stationary device and the mobile device. These techniques may be used to automate the transfer of application context information thereby enabling the user to continue using an application without manual intervention or instruction.

The techniques and configurations described herein therefore enable automatic detection of one computing device moving away from another computing device using a wireless communication protocol and automatic selection and use of a wireless communication protocol including transfers using the same protocol to ensure transfer of application context information. Suitable wireless communication protocols may include for example Bluetooth or Wi Fi e.g. IEEE 802.11 standard protocols. In some examples when two devices are connected via a wireless protocol if either device moves beyond the range of the wireless protocol the devices are no longer able to transfer information using that wireless protocol. In some of the embodiments described herein a device may use a first protocol to detect when one computing device is moving away from another and use a second protocol with a longer communication range to transfer the information. For example when a device moves beyond the communication range of a Bluetooth protocol the device can complete an application context information transfer using the longer range of a Wi Fi protocol. Such techniques may be used to automate the selection of a wireless communication protocol thereby ensuring the transfer of application context information while the devices are within the range of another wireless protocol.

Following device discovery a device may perform a service discovery to confirm whether discovered devices are capable of application context transfer. In some wireless configurations the subject devices may not be aware of the presence of other nearby devices. If a device is not aware of the other nearby devices middleware included on one of the devices may send a multicast message advertising the context transfer feature. If another device receives this multicast message the middleware on the receiving device may respond by confirming its presence and establishing a connection between the devices.

Device discovery operations occurring in a networked environment may include use of a stationary or fixed location computing device such as a desktop computer a Wi Fi access point and one or more mobile devices . The mobile devices may include a mobile phone a notebook computer or any other self powered portable computing device. To identify nearby mobile devices the desktop computer sends a multicast request to the access point and the access point rebroadcasts the multicast request to the mobile devices . The mobile devices may provide a multicast response to the access point and the access point may forward the multicast response to the desktop computer . Upon receipt of the multicast response the desktop computer may form an established connection with the mobile devices .

In another example device discovery operations may be performed directly between two devices. For example device discovery may be performed by P2P decentralized or direct connect operations over a wireless network protocol such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth. Referring to P2P device discovery may be conducted with a P2P request transmitted from a computing device to the mobile devices . If the mobile devices use a compatible P2P protocol the mobile devices may provide a P2P response . Once the P2P response has been received the desktop computer may form a direct connection with individual of the mobile devices . In other examples P2P device discovery may be initiated by a mobile device to the stationary or fixed location computing device.

Although the term stationary or fixed location is employed in the present disclosure to contrast such computing devices with mobile devices embodiments are not limited to contexts involving immobile devices. For instance a laptop notebook Ultrabook tablet or other mobile capable or portable computing device may operate as a stationary or fixed location computing device that is currently or primarily in use at a particular site or location. Further a stationary or fixed location device used with device discovery operations is not limited to use of the desktop computer but may include any type of mobile capable or portable computing device.

Such components may be implemented in middleware installed executing or deployed on a device though software service based middleware is one of many potential types of application context transfer implementations. Though the present disclosure describes various embodiments in a middleware layer software service other embodiments may be implemented in one or more other types of application context transfer implementations including hardware firmware software and the like. Additionally it will be understood that the various components of the middleware layer may be combined or separated further.

The middleware layer may include a proximity detection component . The proximity detection component may detect the current proximity of two devices whether the devices are in proximity with each other and may detect whether the devices are moving toward or away from each other. The proximity detection component may continuously monitor the variation in proximity of these devices. In an example when the middleware layer detects that the user is moving away from his or her desktop computer removed from proximity to the stationary device the proximity detection component notifies the context aggregation component .

The middleware layer may include a context aggregation component . The context aggregation component may aggregate the context of one or more applications for example recording the time during playback of a YouTube streaming video. When the proximity detection component determines the user is moving away from his or her desktop computer proximity detection component notifies the context aggregation component and the context aggregation component automatically aggregates application context information for all active applications.

The middleware layer may include a context transfer medium selection component . The communication medium for transferring the context between devices may be decided based on whether the medium is already connected and how much time would be required for a transfer. If the context data is large or the communication medium available is slow then the middleware may transfer the context data using another available high speed communication medium. For example if the devices were connected using Bluetooth at the time of transfer the middleware may determine that the context transfer over Bluetooth would not be completed before the devices are out of range of each other. If the middleware determines that context transfer over Bluetooth may not be completed the middleware in two devices may establish a Wi Fi connection to transfer the data. The context transfer medium selection component may select which communication medium to use for transferring context information for example choosing to use Wi Fi when a Bluetooth transfer may not be completed while the devices are in range of each other. The middleware layer may include a context TX RX component which may perform the transfer or receipt of the context information.

In some embodiments the middleware layer may include a context reflection component to reflect the application context. After receiving the context information the other device may prompt the user for which applications to continue. If the middleware is unable to find a compatible application the middleware may store the context information for future use. For example if the user was preparing a presentation in a desktop computer while reading a webpage information for both applications may be sent to the mobile device but the middleware may not reflect the presentation context information until the user arrives at an office work station. Additionally the application used on one device may not be same in both the devices so context information may be configured to be application agnostic. For example the user may read an article using Internet Explorer on a desktop computer but may read articles using Safari on an iPhone. The context reflection component may determine how to reflect the context information in the local applications for example using web page information from one web browser in a different web browser.

The middleware layer may also include a security module component . The security module component may apply security measures after the context is reflected in the new device for example by locking a desktop computer or mobile phone or requiring authentication on the new device before displaying data from the transferred context. The security module component may also implement various power conservation measures for example by causing a locked system to enter a low power mode.

In another example the mobile computing device may be moved to within close proximity to a stationary computing device. The middleware proximity detection component detects this event and notifies the context aggregation component . The context aggregation component automatically aggregates context information application for all active mobile applications and the context TX RX component transfers this context information over a wireless connection to the stationary computing device. The stationary computing device may prompt the user to use the application context information in a local application and if the user confirms this prompt the middleware initiates the appropriate applications using the context reflection component .

Context reflection operations may also be extended beyond a single pair of devices to include many sets of capable devices. For example context reflection operations may be used with multiple devices where the device to transfer and reflect the context can be chosen smartly and automatically on the basis of device capability or on the basis of user confirmation. For example after coming back from a user s office to a home the documents open in a user s phone may be reflected to a desktop computer while online video selections from the phone may be transferred to a television.

The device registration operation begins with the mobile device scanning for configured channels operation and sending a trust request to the stationary device . If this device connection is the first time that these devices have connected to each other then they may perform a one time device registration operation . The user may be prompted to designate a device is trusted during the first connection attempt from that device. If the user confirms the mobile device is trusted operation the stationary device may send a confirmation that the trust registration succeeded to the mobile device . Following this confirmation the devices may exchange interface information and add each other to the local trusted device list .

During device discovery the middleware may identify and list all devices that are capable of context transfer and that are within the vicinity of the user. Once a user designates a device as a trusted device the middleware on that device will exchange the information relating to other available communication interfaces. Each device may maintain a trusted device list where the list contains information about all the interfaces of its trusted devices. In order to enhance security during device discovery or information exchange the devices may use standard security mechanisms such as encryption or key based or certificate based authentication.

In some embodiments the first connection of a device may require the user to designate a device as a trusted device. As a result the middleware may form a trusted device list. For subsequent connections the middleware may refer to the trusted device list before attempting any context transfer with other devices. By referring to the trusted device list the middleware may ensure that only trusted devices exchange application context information. In order to protect against identity theft attacks the middleware may exchange challenge request and challenge response messages and these messages may contain authentication measures to ensure only trusted devices exchange application context information. Additional data transfer security may be provided by the link layer security protocol associated with the selected transport medium.

Following device registration operation devices may perform proximity detection operation . In an embodiment after two devices are connected they may use the connection medium to determine their proximity with each other. The two devices may also determine whether they are moving toward each other or moving away from each other. For example Bluetooth technology may be used to detect changes in proximity. The Middleware may perform Bluetooth proximity detection using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE provided by a proximity profile e.g. as defined by Bluetooth 4.0 . A Bluetooth proximity profile requires presence of the Bluetooth Generic Attribute Profile GATT . Or the middleware may detect proximity of the devices using a Bluetooth basic rate enhanced data rate BR EDR ratio on the basis of a Bluetooth Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI . For example Bluetooth RSSI will decrease when devices are moved away from each other. The middleware may determine a minimum communication quality threshold e.g. a Bluetooth RSSI value corresponding to simultaneous use of both devices. When the middleware detects a RSSI value below this communication quality threshold the middleware may conclude the user is moving one device away from another device and trigger the application context transfer. Bluetooth transmit power may also be used as a communication quality threshold to determine proximity either in place of or in addition to RSSI proximity detection.

In some embodiments Wi Fi may be used to detect proximity. For example if both the devices are connected using a P2P Wi Fi connection then the middleware may use P2P Wi Fi to determine the proximity of the devices. If both devices are connected to a single legacy i.e. non P2P Wi Fi Access Point AP then the middleware may use legacy Wi Fi heartbeat packets to determine proximity. Additionally legacy Wi Fi heartbeat packets may be used to transfer RSSI information. In order to determine proximity the middleware may measure the Round Trip Time RTT for each heartbeat packet such that when one device moves away from another device the RTT of the connection will increase. The middleware may determine a minimum communication quality threshold RTT value corresponding to simultaneous use of both devices below which the middleware can confirm the devices have separated and initiate the context transfer. Alternatively the proximity detection may be based on both RTT and RSSI information. Additionally if the Wi Fi module is capable of providing RSSI information of overheard packets then overheard packet RSSI can be used to determine proximity. Because overheard packet RSSI provides a signal strength measure between the two devices directly use of overheard packet RSSI may improve proximity detection. In an example when a user moves to within the range of a home Wi Fi AP the middleware may detect that event using the device discovery procedure. In the case of P2P Wi Fi middleware may detect proximity using a beacon frame continuously transmitted by a P2P group owner and may use this proximity detection to trigger a context transfer.

Proximity detection operation may include the devices exchanging RSSI or connection heartbeat RTT information . Using this RSSI or connection heartbeat RTT information operation the stationary device may continually detect the proximity of the mobile device using RSSI or RTT operation .

If the stationary device determines the mobile device is moving away from the stationary device operation the stationary device may initiate an application context transfer operation . The application context transfer operation may begin with the stationary device requesting the application context of all locally active applications operation . The stationary device may then instruct the mobile device to prompt the user to continue the workflow operation . If the user confirms the prompt to continue the workflow operation the mobile device may send a message to confirm application workflow operation to the stationary device and the devices may exchange the application workflow operation . Upon completion of the application workflow exchange operation the stationary device may apply power conservation measures and local security measures operation .

To resume an application on a secondary device the application may support context detection and transfer. For example context detection for playing a video on a streaming video website such as YouTube would require the first YouTube viewing application to provide information about the time up to which the user had watched the video after context transfer the mobile device can resume the video from the same time. For applications that do not support context detection of the viewing time a YouTube video may be played from the beginning. Using this context detection applications may be categorized as either context aware or context unaware. At the time of context transfer middleware may query context aware applications to accumulate relevant data and control information and context aware application may return the context information to the middleware. For context aware applications the transferred context will be precise. For context unaware applications the middleware may collect the available relevant data to replicate the same context in other device. For example a context unaware browser application may collect the latest visited webpage send the webpage information to another device and the other device may open the same webpage.

If the application is context unaware then the application context information is gathered operation . Once context information has been gathered from either context aware or context unaware applications the first device determines whether context information has been gathered for all active applications operation . If context information has not been gathered for all active applications the first device identifies additional active applications operation and begins detection of context awareness for that application operation . If context information has not been gathered for all active applications then the first device selects the communication medium and transfers the context information to the second device operation .

In some examples a configurable parameter provided in middleware enables a seamless context transfer experience without user prompts to automatically reflect all or selected contexts among capable devices. In other examples once the context information has been transferred the user may be prompted to confirm the context transfer operation . Such a context transfer prompt occurs after the completion of transfer to ensure transfer can be completed while the devices are in range of each other. If the user confirms the context transfer then the second device identifies whether it has an application compatible with the transferred context information operation . If the second device has an application compatible with the transferred context information the second device reflects the context information operation . If the second device does not have an application compatible with the transferred context information the second device stores but does not reflect the context information operation . After the context information has been transferred and stored or reflected the devices may apply local power conservation and local security measures operation .

Application context transfer operations may be preceded by establishing a relationship between devices operation . For example operations to establish the relationship may include broadcasting a multicast trust message from a stationary device to all nearby devices using a wireless communication medium. The user may confirm the trust message on a mobile device and the mobile device may respond to the multicast message with a trust confirmation message. Upon receipt of the trust confirmation message the devices may exchange security information and add each other to a local list of trusted devices.

In an example the stationary device may transfer application context to the mobile device or each device may exchange application context with each other at a predefined periodic interval operation . This transfer may occur whenever the two devices are within wireless communication range and need not be triggered by communication between the two devices. This periodic transfer of application context would minimize the amount of information necessary for application context transfer when the mobile device is physically moved away from the stationary device.

When a mobile device is on the stationary device s list of trusted devices the stationary device may record and analyze a Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI or Round Trip Time RTT operation to determine whether the mobile device has moved beyond a determined threshold or has a communication link quality measurement decreasing below a threshold operation . In an example when the mobile device is physically moved away from the stationary device the RSSI may indicate a decrease in the signal strength or the RTT may indicate an increase in the round trip communication delay. By recording and analyzing this RSSI or RTT information the stationary device may establish a threshold RSSI or RTT value. The threshold may indicate that the mobile device is moving away from the stationary device but that the two devices are still within wireless communication range of each other using the same protocol. In another example if the devices are able to communicate using two different protocols the threshold may indicate that the mobile device has moved beyond the range of a first wireless protocol but is still within range of a second wireless protocol. The stationary device may continuously monitor RSSI or RTT information received via communication from the mobile device operation . The stationary device may use the RSSI or RTT information to determine when the mobile device has moved beyond the threshold operation .

In an example when the stationary device determines the mobile device has moved beyond the communication quality threshold operation the stationary device may determine whether the application context transfer can be completed while the devices are within wireless communication range. This determination may be based on for example how much information has been transferred through periodic application context transfers the expected time between crossing the communication quality threshold and losing wireless connectivity link quality or the speed of the wireless communication medium. Operations then may be conducted to transfer the application context to the mobile device operation . If the application context transfer can be completed while the devices are in range the stationary device may transfer application context using the current wireless communication medium. If the application context transfer cannot be completed while the devices are in range of a common wireless communication medium the stationary device may transfer application context using an alternate wireless communication medium. As suggested by a previous example when mobile device moves beyond the range of the Bluetooth protocol the device could complete an application context information transfer using the longer range of the Wi Fi protocol. Once the application context has been transferred the stationary device or the mobile device may apply local security measures or apply local power conservation measures operation .

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area Internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method for application context transfer between devices comprising determining a communication quality threshold within a wireless communication range of a wireless protocol the wireless protocol used to conduct wireless communications between a first device and a second device when the second device is located in proximity to the first device receiving at the first device a communication from the second device conducted via the wireless protocol determining the second device is being removed from proximity to the first device when the communication received from the second device decreases below the communication quality threshold and transferring from the first device to the second device using a wireless communication an application context of a software application operating on the first device responsive to determining the second device is being removed from proximity to the first device.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include the application context including context information for content in an internet accessible application operating on the first device and wherein the second device accesses the content in an internet accessible application on the second device using the context information responsive to determining transferring of the application context is complete.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include the communication received from the mobile device including a wireless signal strength indication and wherein determining whether the second device is being removed from proximity to the first device includes comparing the wireless signal strength indication to the communication quality threshold.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include the wireless signal strength indication being determined from a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI value included in the communication received from the second device the wireless communication conducted according to a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family or a standard from a Bluetooth standards family.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include sending from the first device a transmission to the second device via the wireless protocol to invoke transmission of the communication from the second device wherein the wireless signal strength indication is determined using a round trip time of communications between the first device and the second device and wherein the first device is a stationary computing device located at a fixed location and wherein the second device is a mobile computing device portable to multiple locations.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include establishing a trusted connection between the first device and the second device prior to conducting the wireless communications between the first device and the second device via the wireless protocol.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include establishing the trusted connection by sending a multicast message to the second device receiving a unicast message from the second device in response to the multicast message indicating user confirmation received at the second device that the first device is a trusted device sending a first set of security information to the second device receiving a second set of security information from the second device and adding the second device to a listing of one or more trusted devices.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include receiving connection information for the second device via a network and communicating directly with the second device independent of the network using a peer to peer network connection established with the connection information.

In Example 9 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 can optionally include transferring at a periodic interval application context information to the second device from the software application operating on the first device.

In Example 10 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 9 can optionally include transferring of the application context from the first device to the second device is performed by a wireless communication conducted via a second wireless protocol the second wireless protocol differing from the wireless protocol.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 10 can optionally include the wireless protocol is defined by a standard from a Bluetooth standards family and wherein the second wireless protocol is defined by a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 11 can optionally include the application context being transferred using the second wireless protocol responsive to determining that the transferring of the application context cannot be completed before the second device is moved beyond the wireless communication range of the wireless protocol.

Example 13 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 12 to include a computing device comprising a processor a memory an antenna a display a wireless network adapter operably coupled to the antenna and arranged to conduct a communication with a second computing device using the antenna using a first wireless communications medium and an application context transfer component operably coupled to the processor and memory and arranged to determine a communication quality threshold within a wireless communication range for wireless communications with the second computing device the wireless communications conducted using the wireless network adapter via the first wireless communications medium process one or more wireless communications received from the second computing device via the first wireless communications medium determine using the one or more wireless communications received from the second computing device whether quality of the one or more wireless communications with the second computing device cross a communication quality threshold and transfer between the computing device and the second computing device an application context of a software application with a second wireless communication via the wireless network adapter responsive to determining the quality of the one or more wireless communications with the second computing device cross a communication quality threshold.

In Example 14 the subject matter of Example 13 can optionally include the wireless network adapter being further arranged to receive a wireless signal strength indication from the second computing device and the application context transfer component further arranged to determine whether quality of the one or more wireless communications cross the communication quality threshold using the wireless signal strength indication.

In Example 15 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 14 can optionally include the application context transfer component being further arranged to transfer the application context through a second wireless communication medium responsive to determining the transfer of the application context cannot be completed via the first wireless communications medium.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 15 can optionally include the computing device being a mobile computing device wherein operations to determine whether quality of the one or more wireless communications with the second computing device cross the communication quality threshold include determining whether quality of the one or more wireless communications exceed the communication quality threshold causing transfer of the application context from the mobile computing device to the computing device.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 16 can optionally include the second computing device being a mobile computing device wherein operations to determine whether quality of the one or more wireless communications with the second computing device cross the communication quality threshold include determining whether quality of the one or more wireless communications fall below the communication quality threshold causing transfer of the application context from the computing device to the mobile computing device.

Example 18 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 17 to include a mobile device comprising a wireless network adapter arranged to conduct a wireless communication with a computing device at a fixed location according to a wireless network protocol and an application context transfer module operably coupled to a processor and a memory of the mobile device and arranged to obtain an application context from the computing device via the wireless network adapter the application context transfer module configured to perform operations including receiving the application context from the computing device using the wireless communication responsive to the computing device determining the mobile device has moved into a communication range of the computing device using the wireless network protocol and determining whether the mobile device has a software application to perform the application context.

In Example 19 the subject matter of Example 18 can optionally include the application context transfer module being further configured to perform operations including prompting the user to start an software application associated with application context information in the transferred application context responsive to determining the mobile device has a software application to perform the application context and storing the application context information responsive to determining the mobile device does not have a software application to perform the application context.

In Example 20 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 18 19 can optionally include the application context being maintained at the computing device responsive to determining the mobile device does not have a software application to perform the application context.

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 18 20 can optionally include the application context transfer module being further configured to perform operations including applying a local security measure at the mobile device responsive to determining transfer of the application context information to the mobile device is complete requesting confirmation by the user for display of the application context at the mobile device and starting an application associated with application context at the mobile device responsive to the user confirming display of the application context.

Example 22 can include or can optionally be combined with the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 21 to include at least one machine readable storage medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to determine a communication quality threshold within a wireless communication range of a wireless protocol the wireless protocol used to conduct wireless communications between a computing device at a fixed location and a mobile device when the mobile device is located in proximity to the computing device receive at the computing device a communication from the mobile device conducted via the wireless protocol determine the mobile device is being removed from proximity to the computing device when the communication received from the mobile device decreases below the communication quality threshold and transfer from the computing device to the mobile device using a wireless communication an application context of a software application operating on the computing device responsive to determining the mobile device is being removed from proximity to the computing device.

In Example 23 the subject matter of Example 22 can optionally include the machine readable storage medium further arranged to receive a wireless signal strength indication from the mobile device wherein the wireless signal strength indication is determined from a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI value included in the communication received from the mobile device and wherein the communication received from the mobile device is provided according to a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family or a standard from a Bluetooth standards family and determine whether the mobile device is being removed from proximity to the computing device by comparing the wireless signal strength indication to the communication quality threshold.

