---

title: Liquid crystal composition and liquid crystal display device
abstract: 

wherein Pand Pare polymerizable groups, and, for example, ring A and ring B are independently an adamantane ring or a noradamantane ring, Z, Zand Zare a single bond, and a, b and c are 1.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376621&OS=09376621&RS=09376621
owner: JNC PETROCHEMICAL CORPORATION
number: 09376621
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20141110
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Japan application serial no. 2013 233317 filed on Nov. 11 2013. The entirety of the above mentioned patent application is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

The invention relates to a liquid crystal composition a liquid crystal display LCD device including this composition and so forth particularly to a liquid crystal composition having a negative dielectric anisotropy and an LCD device including this composition and having a mode such as IPS VA FFS or FPA. The invention also relates to an LCD device of a polymer sustained alignment PSA type.

For LCD devices a classification based on the operating mode of liquid crystal molecules includes modes such as PC Phase Change TN Twisted Nematic STN Super Twisted Nematic ECB Electrically Controlled Birefringence OCB Optically Compensated Bend IPS In Plane Switching VA Vertical Alignment FFS Fringe Field Switching and FPA Field induced Photo reactive Alignment . A classification based on the driving mode of the device includes PM passive matrix and AM active matrix types. The PM types are classified into static type multiplex type and so forth and the AM types are classified into TFT thin film transistor types MIM metal insulator metal types and so forth. The TFT types are classified into amorphous silicon types and polycrystal silicon types. The latter are classified into a high temperature type and a low temperature type depending on the production process. A classification based on the light source includes a reflection type utilizing natural light a transmission type utilizing a backlight and a semi transmission type utilizing both natural light and a backlight.

The LCD device includes a liquid crystal composition having a nematic phase. This composition has suitable characteristics. An AM device having good characteristics can be obtained by improving of the characteristics of this composition. Table 1 below summarizes the relationship between these two groups of characteristics. The characteristics of the composition will be further explained on the basis of a commercially available AM device. The temperature range of a nematic phase relates to the temperature range in which the device can be used. A desirable maximum temperature of the nematic phase is about 70 C. or higher and a desirable minimum temperature of the nematic phase is about 10 C. or lower. The viscosity of the composition relates to the response time of the device. A short response time is desirable for displaying moving images on the device. Response time that is one millisecond shorter than that of the other devices is desirable. Thus a small viscosity of the composition is desirable. A small viscosity at a low temperature is more desirable.

The optical anisotropy of the composition relates to the contrast ratio of the device. A large optical anisotropy or a small optical anisotropy namely a suitable optical anisotropy is necessary depending on the mode of the device. The product n d of the optical anisotropy n of the composition and the cell gap d of the device is designed so as to maximize the contrast ratio. A suitable value of the product depends on the type of operating mode. This value is in the range of about 0.30 m to about 0.40 m for a device having a VA mode and in the range of about 0.20 m to about 0.30 m for a device having an IPS mode or an FFS mode. In these cases a composition having a large optical anisotropy is desirable for a device having a small cell gap. A large dielectric anisotropy of the composition contributes to a low threshold voltage low power consumption and a large contrast ratio of the device. A large dielectric anisotropy is thus desirable. A large specific resistance of the composition contributes to a large voltage holding ratio and a large contrast ratio of the device. It is thus desirable that a composition should have a large specific resistance at a high temperature as well as at room temperature in the initial stages. It is desirable that a composition should have a large specific resistance at a high temperature as well as at room temperature after it has been used for a long period of time. The stability of the composition to UV light and heat relates to the service life of device. A device has a long service life if the stability is high. Such characteristics are desirable for an AM device used for a liquid crystal projector a liquid crystal television and so forth.

A liquid crystal composition including a polymer is used for a LCD device of a polymer sustained alignment PSA type. First a composition to which a small amount of polymerizable compound has been added is poured into a device. Next the composition is irradiated with UV light while a voltage is applied between the substrates of this device to polymerize the polymerizable compound and form a network structure of a polymer in the composition. In this composition the polymer makes it possible to adjust the orientation of liquid crystal molecules and thus the response time of the device is decreased and image burn in is reduced. Such effect of the polymer can be expected for a device having a mode such as TN ECB OCB IPS VA FFS or FPA.

A composition having positive dielectric anisotropy is used for an AM device having a TN mode. A composition having negative dielectric anisotropy is used for an AM device having a VA mode. A composition having positive or negative dielectric anisotropy is used for an AM device having an IPS mode or an FFS mode. A composition having positive or negative dielectric anisotropy is used for an AM device with a PSA type. With regard to the device of a PSA type examples of the liquid crystal composition having negative dielectric anisotropy are disclosed in the following Patent documents No. 1 to No. 6.

An improvement of characteristics such as image burn in is required to a liquid crystal composition since the performance of a PSA type device has been improved recently. It is considered that a polymerizable compound in which the molecular structure is rod like has a high ability to orient liquid crystal molecules. In contrast it has a poor solubility in the composition and a large amount of the polymerizable compound cannot be added. If a polymerizable compound having a high solubility in a liquid crystal composition could be found it is possible to give a large pretilt angle to liquid crystal molecules and thus the response time of the device is decreased and image burn in is reduced.

Accordingly the invention provides a liquid crystal composition that includes a polymerizable compound having a high solubility and that satisfies at least one of characteristics such as a high maximum temperature of a nematic phase a low minimum temperature of a nematic phase a small viscosity a suitable optical anisotropy a large negative dielectric anisotropy a large specific resistance a high stability to UV light and a high stability to heat. The invention also provides a liquid crystal composition that is suitably balanced between at least two of the characteristics. The invention further provides a liquid crystal composition that includes a polymer and has characteristics such as a small residual amount of the polymerizable compound and a large pretilt angle and a AM device that has characteristics such as a small rate of image burn in a short response time a large voltage holding ratio a low threshold voltage a large contrast ratio and a long service life.

The invention concerns a liquid crystal composition including at least one polymerizable compound selected form the group of compounds represented by formula 1 and a liquid crystal display device including the liquid crystal composition 

The liquid crystal composition of the invention includes a polymerizable compound having a high solubility and may satisfy at least one of characteristics such as a high maximum temperature of a nematic phase a low minimum temperature of a nematic phase a small viscosity a suitable optical anisotropy a large negative dielectric anisotropy a large specific resistance a high stability to UV light and a high stability to heat. The liquid crystal composition may be suitably balanced between at least two of the characteristics. The liquid crystal composition may include a polymer and have characteristics such as a small residual amount of the polymerizable compound and a large pretilt angle and a AM device containing the composition has characteristics such as a small rate of image burn in a short response time a large voltage holding ratio a low threshold voltage a large contrast ratio and a long service life.

The usage of the terms in the specification and claims is explained as follows. Liquid crystal composition and liquid crystal display device are sometimes abbreviated to composition and device respectively. LCD device is a generic term for an LCD panel and an LCD module. Liquid crystal compound is a generic term for a compound having a liquid crystal phase such as a nematic phase or a smectic phase and for a compound having no liquid crystal phases but being mixed to a composition to adjust the characteristics such as the temperature range of a nematic phase the viscosity and the dielectric anisotropy. This compound has a six membered ring such as 1 4 cyclohexylene or 1 4 phenylene and its molecular structure is rod like. Polymerizable compound is a compound that is added to a composition in order to form a polymer in it. Halogen means fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine. Desirable halogen is fluorine and chlorine. More desirable halogen is fluorine.

A liquid crystal composition is prepared by mixing a plurality of liquid crystal compounds. The proportion of a liquid crystal compound content is expressed as a percentage by weight wt based on the weight of this liquid crystal composition. An additive such as an optically active compound an antioxidant an UV light absorbent a coloring matter an antifoaming agent a polymerizable compound a polymerization initiator or a polymerization inhibitor is added to this liquid crystal composition as required. The proportion of the additive added amount is expressed as a weight percentage wt based on the weight of the liquid crystal composition in the same manner as with the liquid crystal compound. Weight parts per million ppm is sometimes used. The proportion of the polymerization initiator or the polymerization inhibitor is exceptionally expressed on the basis of the weight of the polymerizable compound.

 The higher limit of the temperature range of a nematic phase is sometimes abbreviated to the maximum temperature. The lower limit of the temperature range of a nematic phase is sometimes abbreviated to the minimum temperature. That specific resistance is large means that a composition has a large specific resistance at a temperature close to the maximum temperature of a nematic phase as well as at room temperature in the initial stages and that the composition has a large specific resistance at a temperature close to the maximum temperature of a nematic phase as well as at room temperature after it has been used for a long time. That the voltage holding ratio is large means that a device has a large voltage holding ratio at a temperature close to the maximum temperature of a nematic phase as well as at room temperature in the initial stages and that the device has a large voltage holding ratio at a temperature close to the maximum temperature of a nematic phase as well as at room temperature after it has been used for a long time. The expression increase the dielectric anisotropy means that its value increases positively when the composition has positive dielectric anisotropy and that its value increases negatively when the composition has negative dielectric anisotropy.

The expression at least one A means that the number of A is arbitrary. The expression at least one A may be replaced by B means that the position of A is arbitrary when the number of A is one and the positions can also be selected without restriction when the number of A is two or more. This also applies to the expression at least one A has been replaced by B . 

In formulae 1 to 4 the symbol such as A B or L surrounded by a circle or a hexagon corresponds to a ring such as ring A ring B or ring L respectively. In compound 4 an oblique line crossing the hexagon of ring L means that arbitrary hydrogen on the ring may be replaced by a P Spgroup. The subscript j means the number of the group that has been replaced. There is no replacement when the subscript j is 0 zero . Two P Spgroups are present on ring L when j is 2. Two groups represented by the P Spgroup may be the same or different. The same rule applies to arbitrary two P Spgroups when j is greater than 2. The same rule applies to other groups. A compound represented by formula 1 is sometimes abbreviated to compound 1 . Compound 1 means one compound a mixture of two compounds or a mixture of three or more compounds represented by formula 1 . This applies to a compound represented by another formula.

The symbol for the terminal group R is used for a plurality of compounds in the chemical formulas of component compounds. In these compounds two groups represented by two arbitrary Rmay be the same or different. In one case for example Rof compound 2 is ethyl and Rof compound 2 1 is ethyl. In another case Rof compound 2 is ethyl and Rof compound 2 1 is propyl. The same rule applies to symbols such as R Rand M. In formula 1 two rings B are present when b is 2. In this compound the two groups represented by the two rings B may be the same or different. This rule applies to arbitrary two rings B when b is greater than 2. This rule also applies to symbols such as P Z ring E and Z.

2 Fluoro 1 4 phenylene means the two divalent groups described below. Fluorine may be facing left L or facing right R in a chemical formula. The same rule also applies to other asymmetric divalent group derived from a ring such as tetrahydropyran 2 5 diyl.

The inventors have found that a combination of compound 1 and a liquid crystal composition is suitable to a device of a PSA type for the following reasons a compound 1 has a high solubility in a liquid crystal composition b compound 1 polymerizes easily to form a polymer c the residual amount of compound 1 is small after polymerization d the polymer gives a large pretilt angle to liquid crystal molecules e the response time of the device is short and f in the device image burn in is small.

Item 1 is a liquid crystal composition including at least one polymerizable compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 1 

Item 2 is a liquid crystal composition of item 1 in which in formula 1 Pand Pare independently a polymerizable group selected from the group of groups represented by formulae P 1 to P 3 where in formula P 1 M Mand Mare independently hydrogen fluorine alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons or alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by halogen and in formula P 3 Mis hydrogen methyl ethyl or propyl ring A is a adamantane ring a noradamantane ring a diadamantane ring a triadamantane ring or a tetraadamantane ring and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons that may contain at least one halogen ring B is an adamantane ring a noradamantane ring a diadamantane ring a cyclohexane ring a cyclohexene ring a benzene ring or a naphthalene ring and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons that may contain at least one halogen Zand Zare independently a single bond or alkylene having 1 to 10 carbons and in the alkylene at least one CH may be replaced by O COO OCO or OCOO and at least one CH CH may be replaced by CH CH or C C Zis a single bond COO OCO or O a is 1 2 or 3 b is 0 1 2 or 3 c is 1 or 2 and the sum of a and c is 2 to 4.

Item 3 is the liquid crystal composition of item 1 or 2 in which the polymerizable compound is at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 1 1 

Item 4 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 3 in which the polymerizable compound is at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 1 1 1 

Item 5 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 4 which further includes at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 2 as a first component 

Item 6 is the liquid crystal composition of item 5 in which the first component is at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 2 1 to formula 2 19 

Item 7 is the liquid crystal composition of item 5 or 6 in which the proportion of the first component is in the range of 10 wt to 90 wt based on the weight of the liquid crystal composition.

Item 8 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 7 which further includes at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 3 as a second component 

Item 9 is the liquid crystal composition of item 8 in which the second component is at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 3 1 to formula 3 13 

Item 10 is the liquid crystal composition of item 8 or 9 in which the proportion of the second component is in the range of 10 wt to 90 wt based on the weight of the liquid crystal composition.

Item 11 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 10 which further includes at least one polymerizable compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formula 4 

Item 12 is the liquid crystal composition of item 11 in which in formula 4 P Pand Pare independently a polymerizable group selected from the group of groups represented by formula P 4 to formula P 9 

Item 13 is the liquid crystal composition of item 11 or 12 in which the polymerizable compound is at least one compound selected from the group of compounds represented by formulae 4 1 to 4 27 

Item 14 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 13 in which the proportion of the at least one polymerizable compound represented by formula 1 is in the range of 0.03 wt to 10 wt based on the weight of the liquid crystal composition.

Item 15 is the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 11 to 13 in which the proportion of the total amount of the polymerizable compound represented by formula 1 and the polymerizable compound represented by formula 4 is in the range of 0.03 wt to 10 wt based on the weight of the liquid crystal composition.

Item 17 is the LCD device of item 16 of which the operating mode is an IPS mode a VA mode an FFS mode or an FPA mode and the driving mode is an active matrix mode.

Item 18 is a liquid crystal display device of a polymer sustained alignment PSA type which includes the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 15 in which the polymerizable compound has been polymerized.

Item 20 is use of the liquid crystal composition of any one of items 1 to 15 for an LCD device of a PSA type.

The invention also includes the following items a a method for producing the LCD device in which the liquid crystal composition described above is arranged between two substrates and is irradiated with light while a voltage is applied to polymerize a polymerizable compound included in the composition and b the liquid crystal composition described above in which the maximum temperature of a nematic phase is 70 C. or higher and the optical anisotropy measured at 25 C. at a wavelength of 589 nm is 0.08 or more and the dielectric anisotropy measured at 25 C. at a frequency of 1 kHz is 2 or less.

The invention also includes the following items c the composition described above which includes at least one compound selected from the group of compounds 5 to 7 disclosed in JP 2006 199941 A that are all liquid crystal compounds having positive dielectric anisotropy d the composition described above which includes polymerizable compound 1 described above e the composition described above which includes polymerizable compounds 1 and 4 described above f the composition described above which includes a polymerizable compound that is different from polymerizable compound 1 or 4 g the composition described above which includes at least one of additives such as an optically active compound an antioxidant an UV light absorbent a coloring matter an antifoaming agent a polymerizable compound a polymerization initiator and a polymerization inhibitor h an AM device including the composition described above i a device including the composition described above and having a mode of TN ECB OCB IPS FFS VA or FPA j a transmission type device including the composition described above k use of the composition described above as a composition having a nematic phase and l use of the composition as an optically active composition by adding an optically active compound to the composition described above.

The composition of the invention will be explained in the following order. First the constitution of component compounds in the composition is explained. Second the main characteristics of the component compounds and the main effects of these compounds on the composition are explained. Third the combination of the components in the composition desirable proportions of the components and their bases are explained. Fourth desirable embodiments of the component compounds are explained. Fifth desirable component compounds are shown. Sixth additives that may be added to the composition are explained. Seventh methods for synthesizing the component compounds are explained. Last the use of the composition is explained.

First the constitution of component compounds in the composition is explained. The compositions of the invention are classified into composition A and composition B. Composition A may further include any other liquid crystal compound an additive and so forth in addition to liquid crystal compounds selected from compounds 2 and 3 . Any other liquid crystal compound is a liquid crystal compound different from compounds 2 and 3 . Such a compound is mixed with the composition for further adjusting the characteristics. Among other liquid crystal compounds a smaller amount of a cyano compound is desirable in view of its stability to heat or UV light. A more desirable ratio of the cyano compound is 0 wt . The additive includes an optically active compound an antioxidant a UV light absorbent a coloring matter an antifoaming agent a polymerizable compound a polymerization initiator and a polymerization inhibitor.

Composition B consists essentially of liquid crystal compounds selected from compounds 2 and 3 . The term essentially means that the composition may include an additive but does not include any other liquid crystal compound. Composition B has a smaller number of components than composition A and is preferred to composition A in view of cost reduction. Composition A is preferred to composition B in view of the fact that characteristics can be further adjusted by mixing with any other liquid crystal compound.

Second the main characteristics of the component compounds and the main effects of these compounds on the characteristics of the composition are explained. Table 2 summarizes the main characteristics of the component compounds based on the effects of the invention. In Table 2 the symbol L stands for large or high the symbol M stands for medium and the symbol S stands for small or low. The symbols L M and S mean a classification based on a qualitative comparison among the component compounds and the symbol 0 means that the value is zero or close to zero.

The main effects of the component compounds on the characteristics of the composition upon mixing the component compounds with the composition are as follows. Compounds 1 and 4 give a polymer by polymerization. The polymer decreases the response time of the device and reduces image burn in. Compound 2 increases the dielectric anisotropy and decreases the minimum temperature. Compound 3 decreases the viscosity or increases the maximum temperature or decreases the minimum temperature.

Third the combination of the components in the composition desirable proportions of the components and their bases are explained. The combination of the components in the composition is compound 1 plus compound 2 compound 1 plus compound 3 compound 1 plus compound 2 plus compound 3 compound 1 plus compound 2 plus compound 4 or compound 1 plus compound 2 plus compound 3 plus compound 4 . A more desirable combination is compound 1 plus compound 2 plus compound 3 or compound 1 plus compound 2 plus compound 3 plus compound 4 .

A polymerizable compound such as compound 1 and compound 4 is added to the composition for adjusting to device of a PSA type. A desirable proportion of the polymerizable compound is about 0.03 wt or more for orienting liquid crystal molecules and about 10 wt or less for preventing a poor display of a device. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 0.1 wt to about 2 wt . An especially desirable proportion is in the range of about 0.2 wt to about 1 wt .

A desirable proportion of compound 2 is about 10 wt or more for increasing the dielectric anisotropy and about 90 wt or less for decreasing the viscosity. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 20 wt to about 80 wt . An especially desirable proportion is in the range of about 30 wt to about 70 wt .

A desirable proportion of compound 3 is about 10 wt or more for increasing the maximum temperature or for decreasing the viscosity and about 90 wt or less for decreasing the minimum temperature. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 20 wt to about 80 wt . An especially desirable proportion is in the range of about 30 wt to about 70 wt .

Fourth desirable embodiments of the component compounds are explained. Compound 1 is characterized in having a bridged ring structure in which steric hindrance is large as a main skeleton. The main skeleton of the bridged ring may contain a fused ring structure and a spiro ring structure. The bridged ring means one that has a skeleton with a plurality of rings and has three or more shared atoms between two rings. The fused ring means one that has a skeleton with a plurality of rings and has two shared atoms between two rings. The spiro ring means one that has a skeleton with a plurality of rings and has one shared atom between two rings. It is desirable that the bridged ring should be a bicyclo ring a tricyclo ring or a tetracyclo ring for increasing the polymerizability. Here for the meanings of the bicyclo ring the tricyclo ring and the tetracyclo ring the number of bond breakings between the ring atoms required for giving a chain structure is two for the bicyclo ring three for the tricyclo ring and four for tetracyclo ring. The species of the atoms forming a ring within the structure is not limited and the ring is preferably composed of carbon or of oxygen and carbon and more preferably composed of carbon. The ring structure has preferably 6 to 21 carbons and more preferably 7 to 18 carbons.

In formula 1 Pand Pare independently a polymerizable group selected from the group of groups represented by formula P 1 to formula P 3 . Desirable Por Pis group P 1 for increasing the reactivity or for decreasing the response time. A wavy line in group P 1 to group P 3 indicates a binding site.

M or Mor M in Pand M or Mor M in Pmay be the same or different when Pand Pis group P 1 . In group P 1 M Mand Mare independently hydrogen fluorine alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons or alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by halogen. Desirable M Mor Mis hydrogen or methyl for increasing the reactivity. More desirable Mis methyl and more desirable Mor Mis hydrogen. In group P 3 Mis hydrogen methyl ethyl or propyl. Desirable Mis methyl or ethyl for increasing the reactivity. In formula 1 1 Mis hydrogen methyl or CF. Desirable Mis hydrogen or methyl for increasing the reactivity. In formula 1 1 1 Mis hydrogen or methyl. Desirable Mis methyl for increasing the reactivity.

In formula 4 P Pand Pare independently a polymerizable group. Desirable P Por Pis a polymerizable group selected from the group of groups represented by formulae P 4 to P 9 . Desirable P Por Pis group P 4 or group P 5 . More desirable group P 4 is OCO CH CHor OCO C CH CH. A wavy line in group P 4 to group P 9 indicates a binding site.

M or Mor M in Pand M or Mor M in Pand M or Mor M in Pmay be the same or different when P Pand Pare all group P 4 . In group P 4 M Mand Mare independently hydrogen fluorine alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons or alkyl having 1 to 5 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by halogen. Desirable M Mor Mis hydrogen or methyl for increasing the reactivity. More desirable Mis methyl and more desirable Mor Mis hydrogen.

When both Pand Pare group P 7 at least one of Spand Spis alkylene in which at least one CH has been replaced by O COO OCO or OCOO . That is to say both Pand Pare not alkenyl such as 1 propenyl simultaneously.

When P Pand Pare all group P 9 Min Pand Min Pand Min Pmay be the same or different. In group P 9 Mis hydrogen methyl ethyl or propyl. Desirable Mis methyl or ethyl for increasing the reactivity.

In formulae 4 1 to 4 27 P Pand Pare independently a polymerizable group selected from the group of groups represented by formulae P 4 to P 6 . Desirable P Por Pis group P 4 or P 5 . More desirable P 4 is OCO CH CHor OCO C CH CH. A wavy line in groups P 4 to P 6 indicates a binding site.

When P Pand Pare all group P 4 M or Mor M in Pand M or Mor M in Pand M or Mor M in Pmay be the same of different.

Sp Spand Spare independently a single bond or alkylene having 1 to 10 carbons and in the alkylene at least one CH may be replaced by O COO OCO or OCOO and at least one CH CH may be replaced by CH CH or C C and in these groups at least one hydrogen may be replaced by fluorine or chlorine. Desirable Sp Spor Spis a single bond.

In formula 1 ring A is a bridged ring such as an adamantane ring a noradamantane ring a diadamantane ring a triadamantane ring and a tetraadamantane ring and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons that may contain at least one halogen. In the accurate expression ring A means a group with valence a 1 derived from one of these rings where a is the subscript described in item 1. Desirable ring A is an adamantane ring in which at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or methyl for increasing the reactivity. Ring B is a bridged ring such as an adamantane ring a noradamantane ring and a diadamantane ring a cyclohexane ring a cyclohexene ring a benzene ring or a naphthalene ring and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons that may contain at least one halogen. In the accurate expression ring B means a divalent group derived from one of these rings. Desirable ring B is an adamantane ring in which at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or methyl a benzene ring or a naphthalene ring for increasing the reactivity or for increasing the solubility.

In formula 1 1 ring C is an adamantane ring a noradamantane ring or a diadamantane ring and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 6 carbons that may contain at least one halogen. Desirable ring C is an adamantane ring for increasing the reactivity. Ring D is an adamantane ring and in the ring at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen or alkyl having 1 to 3 carbons that may contain at least one halogen.

In formula 4 ring L and ring N are independently cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl tetrahydropyran 2 yl 1 3 dioxane 2 yl pyrimidine 2 yl or pyridine 2 yl and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbons or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by halogen. Desirable ring L or ring N is phenyl. Ring M is 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 4 cyclohexenylene 1 4 phenylene naphthalene 1 2 diyl naphthalene 1 3 diyl naphthalene 1 4 diyl naphthalene 1 5 diyl naphthalene 1 6 diyl naphthalene 1 7 diyl naphthalene 1 8 diyl naphthalene 2 3 diyl naphthalene 2 6 diyl naphthalene 2 7 diyl tetrahydropyran 2 5 diyl 1 3 dioxane 2 5 diyl pyrimidine 2 5 diyl or pyridine 2 5 diyl and in these rings at least one hydrogen may be replaced by halogen alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbons or alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by halogen. Especially desirable ring M is 1 4 phenylene or 2 fluoro 1 4 phenylene.

In formula 1 Zand Zare independently a single bond or alkylene having 1 to 10 carbons and in the alkylene at least one CH may be replaced by O COO OCO or OCOO and at least one CH CH may be replaced by CH CH or C C . Desirable Zor Zis a single bond or alkylene having 1 to 4 carbons for increasing the reactivity. More desirable Zor Zis a single bond or alkylene having 1 or 2 carbons. Zis a single bond COO OCO or O . Desirable Zis a single bond for increasing the reactivity. In formula 1 1 Zis alkylene having 1 to 4 carbons in which at least one CH may be replaced by O COO OCO or OCOO . Desirable Zis a single bond or alkylene having 1 or 2 carbons.

In formula 4 Zand Zare independently a single bond or alkylene having 1 to 10 carbons in which at least one CH may be replaced by O CO COO or OCO and at least one CH CH may be replaced by CH CH C CH CH CH C CH or C CH C CH and in these groups at least one hydrogen may be replaced by fluorine or chlorine. Desirable Zor Zis a single bond CHCH CHO OCH COO or OCO . More desirable Zor Zis a single bond.

In formula 1 a is 1 2 or 3 c is 1 or 2 and the sum of a and c is 2 to 4. Preferably a is 1 or 2 c is 1 or 2 and the sum of a and c is 2 or 3 for increasing the reactivity. b is 0 1 2 or 3. Desirable b is 0 or 1 for increasing the reactivity. More desirable b is 0. In formula 1 1 d is 2 3 or 4. Desirable d is 2 for increasing the reactivity.

In formula 4 h is 0 1 or 2. Desirable h is 0 or 1. j k and m are independently 0 1 2 3 or 4 and the sum of j k and m is 1 or more. Desirable j k or m is 1 or 2.

In formula 2 Rand Rare independently alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbons alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbons or alkenyloxy having 2 to 12 carbons. Desirable Ror Ris alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons for increasing the stability to UV light or heat or is alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbons for decreasing the viscosity or for increasing the dielectric anisotropy.

In formula 3 Rand Rare independently alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons alkoxy having 1 to 12 carbons alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbons or alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbons in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by fluorine. Desirable Ror Ris alkenyl having 2 to 12 carbons for decreasing the viscosity or is alkyl having 1 to 12 carbons for increasing the stability to UV light or for increasing the stability to heat.

Desirable alkyl is methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl or octyl. More desirable alkyl is ethyl propyl butyl pentyl or heptyl for decreasing the viscosity.

Desirable alkoxy is methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentyloxy hexyloxy or heptyloxy. More desirable alkoxy is methoxy or ethoxy for decreasing the viscosity.

Desirable alkenyl is vinyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 pentenyl 4 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 4 hexenyl or 5 hexenyl. More desirable alkenyl is vinyl 1 propenyl 3 butenyl or 3 pentenyl for decreasing the viscosity. The desirable configuration of CH CH in the alkenyl depends on the position of the double bond. Trans is preferable in the alkenyl such as 1 propenyl 1 butenyl 1 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 3 pentenyl and 3 hexenyl for decreasing the viscosity. Cis is preferable in the alkenyl such as 2 butenyl 2 pentenyl and 2 hexenyl.

Desirable alkenyloxy is vinyloxy allyloxy 3 butenyloxy 3 pentenyloxy or 4 pentenyloxy. More desirable alkenyloxy is allyloxy or 3 butenyloxy for decreasing the viscosity.

Desirable examples of alkenyl in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by fluorine are 2 2 difluorovinyl 3 3 difluoro 2 propenyl 4 4 difluoro 3 butenyl 5 5 difluoro 4 pentenyl or 6 6 difluoro 5 hexenyl. More desirable examples are 2 2 difluorovinyl or 4 4 difluoro 3 butenyl for decreasing the viscosity.

Alkyl is straight or branched and does not include cycloalkyl. Straight alkyl is preferred to branched alkyl. This applies to a terminal group such as alkoxy alkenyl alkenyloxy and alkenyl in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by fluorine. With regard to the configuration of 1 4 cyclohexylene trans is preferred to cis for increasing the maximum temperature.

In formula 2 ring E and ring G are independently 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 4 cyclohexenylene 1 4 phenylene 1 4 phenylene in which at least one hydrogen has been replaced by fluorine or chlorine or tetrahydropyran 2 5 diyl and arbitrary two rings E may be the same or different when e is 2 or 3. Desirable ring E or ring G is 1 4 cyclohexylene for decreasing the viscosity or is 1 4 phenylene for increasing the optical anisotropy. Tetrahydropyran 2 5 diyl is

In formula 2 ring F is 2 3 difluoro 1 4 phenylene 2 chloro 3 fluoro 1 4 phenylene 2 3 difluoro 5 methyl 1 4 phenylene 3 4 5 trifluoronaphthalene 2 6 diyl or 7 8 difluorochroman 2 6 diyl. Desirable ring F is 2 3 difluoro 1 4 phenylene for decreasing the viscosity or is 2 chloro 3 fluoro 1 4 phenylene for decreasing the optical anisotropy or is 7 8 difluorochroman 2 6 diyl for increasing the dielectric anisotropy.

In formula 3 ring I ring J and ring K are independently 1 4 cyclohexylene 1 4 phenylene or 2 fluoro 1 4 phenylene and two rings I may be the same of different when g is 2. Desirable ring I ring J or ring K is 1 4 cyclohexylene for decreasing the viscosity or for increasing the maximum temperature or is 1 4 phenylene for decreasing the minimum temperature.

In formula 2 or formula 3 Z Z Zand Zare independently a single bond CHCH CHO OCH COO or OCO and arbitrary two Zmay be the same or different when e is 2 or 3 and two Zmay be the same of different when g is 2. Desirable Z Z Zor Zis a single bond for decreasing the viscosity or is CHCH for decreasing the minimum temperature or is CHO f or increasing the dielectric anisotropy.

In formula 2 e is 1 2 or 3. Desirable e is 1 for decreasing the viscosity or is 2 or 3 for increasing the maximum temperature. f is 0 or 1. Desirable f is 0 for decreasing the viscosity or is 1 for decreasing the minimum temperature. In formula 3 g is 0 1 or 2. Desirable g is 0 for decreasing the viscosity or is 1 or 2 for increasing the maximum temperature.

Fifth desirable component compounds are shown. Desirable compounds 1 are not particularly limited and include for example compounds 1 1 1 1 to 1 1 1 4 compounds 1 1 2 1 to 1 1 2 8 compounds 1 1 3 1 to 1 1 3 3 compounds 1 1 4 1 to 1 1 4 6 and compounds 1 1 5 1 to 1 1 5 8 .

Desirable compounds 2 are compounds 2 1 to 2 19 described in item 6. It is desirable that in these compounds at least one of the first component should be compound 2 1 2 3 2 4 2 6 2 8 or 2 13 . It is desirable that at least two of the first component should be a combination of compounds 2 1 and 2 6 compounds 2 1 and 2 13 compounds 2 3 and 2 6 compounds 2 3 and 2 13 or compounds 2 4 and 2 8 .

Desirable compounds 3 are compounds 3 1 to 3 13 described in item 9. It is desirable that in these compounds at least one of the second component should be compound 3 1 3 3 3 5 3 6 3 7 or 3 8 . It is desirable that at least two of the second component should be a combination of compounds 3 1 and 3 3 compounds 3 1 and 3 5 or compounds 3 1 and 3 6 .

Desirable compounds 4 are compounds 4 1 to 4 26 described in item 13. A desirable composition includes compound 4 1 4 2 or 4 18 . A mode desirable composition includes compounds 4 1 and 4 2 compounds 4 1 and 4 18 or compounds 4 2 and 4 18 .

Sixth additives that may be added to the composition are explained. Such additives include an optically active compound an antioxidant an UV light absorbent a coloring matter an antifoaming agent a polymerizable compound a polymerization initiator and a polymerization inhibitor. The optically active compound is added to the composition to induce a helical structure of liquid crystal molecules and giving a twist angle and examples thereof include compounds 5 1 to 5 5 . A desirable proportion of the optically active compound is about 5 wt or less and a more desirable proportion is in a range of about 0.01 wt to about 2 wt .

The antioxidant is added to the composition in order to prevent a decrease in specific resistance that is caused by heating under air or to maintain a large voltage holding ratio at a temperature close to the maximum temperature as well as at room temperature after the device has been used for a long time.

A desirable example of the antioxidant is compound 6 where t is an integer from 1 to 9 for instance. In compound 6 desirable t is 1 3 5 7 or 9. More desirable t is 1 or 7. Compound 6 where t is 1 is effective in preventing a decrease in specific resistance that is caused by heating under air because it has a large volatility. Compound 6 where t is 7 is effective in maintaining a large voltage holding ratio at a temperature close to the maximum temperature as well as at room temperature after the device has been used for a long period of time since it has a small volatility. A desirable proportion of the antioxidant is about 50 ppm or more for achieving its effect and is about 600 ppm or less for avoiding a decrease in the maximum temperature or avoiding an increase in the minimum temperature. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 100 ppm to about 300 ppm.

Desirable examples of the UV light absorbent include benzophenone derivatives benzoate derivatives and triazole derivatives. A light stabilizer such as an amine having steric hindrance is also desirable. A desirable proportion of the UV light absorber or the light stabilizer is about 50 ppm or more for achieving its effect and is about 10 000 ppm or less for avoiding a decrease in the maximum temperature or avoiding an increase in the minimum temperature. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 100 ppm to about 10 000 ppm.

A dichroic dye such as an azo dye or an anthraquinone dye is added to the composition for adjusting to a device having a guest host GH mode. A desirable proportion of the coloring matter is in the range of about 0.01 wt to about 10 wt . The antifoaming agent such as dimethyl silicone oil or methyl phenyl silicone oil is added to the composition for preventing foam formation. A desirable proportion of the antifoaming agent is about 1 ppm or more for achieving its effect and is about 1 000 ppm or less for avoiding a poor display. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 1 ppm to about 500 ppm.

The polymerizable compound is used for adjusting to a device of a PSA polymer sustained alignment mode. Compounds 1 and 4 are suitable for this purpose. Other polymerizable compound that is different from compound 1 or 4 may be added to the composition together with compounds 1 and 4 . Desirable examples of other polymerizable compound include compounds such as acrylates methacrylates vinyl compounds vinyloxy compounds propenyl ethers epoxy compounds oxiranes oxetanes and vinyl ketones. More desirable examples are acrylate derivatives and methacrylate derivatives. When any other polymerizable compound is added a desirable proportion of compound 1 or a desirable proportion of a combination of compounds 1 and 4 is about 10 wt or more based on the total weight of the polymerizable compound. A more desirable proportion is about 50 wt or more. A particularly desirable proportion is about 80 wt or more or even 100 wt . The reactivity of the polymerizable compound or the pretilt angle of liquid crystal molecules can be adjusted by a combination of compounds 1 and 4 or by a combination of compound 1 and 4 and other polymerizable compound in a suitable ratio. A short response time of the device can be achieved by optimizing the pretilt angle. A large contrast ratio or a long service life can be achieved since the orientation of liquid crystal molecules is stabilized.

A polymerizable compound such as compound 1 or 4 is polymerized on irradiation with UV light possibly in the presence of an initiator such as a photo polymerization initiator. Suitable conditions for polymerization and a suitable type and amount of the initiator are known to a person of ordinary skill in the art and are described in the literature. For example Irgacure 651 BASF Irgacure 184 BASF or Darocure 1173 BASF each of which is a photo initiator is suitable for radical polymerization. A desirable proportion of the photo polymerization initiator is in the range of about 0.1 wt to about 5 wt based on the weight of the polymerizable compound. A more desirable proportion is in the range of about 1 wt to about 3 wt .

The polymerization inhibitor may be added in order to prevent polymerization when a polymerizable compound such as compound 1 or 4 is kept in storage. The polymerizable compound is usually added to the composition without removing the polymerization inhibitor. Examples of the polymerization inhibitor include hydroquinone derivatives such as hydroquinone and methylhydroquinone 4 t butylcatechol 4 methoxyphenol and phenothiazine.

Seventh methods for synthesizing the component compounds are explained. These compounds can be synthesized by known methods. The synthetic methods are exemplified below. Compound 1 is commercially available or is prepared by the method described in JP 2012 001526 A. The method for forming Zand Zis described in WO 2010 131600 A. The method for transforming ring O CH CHO to ring O CH CH O Bz is described in Scheme 4 of 65 2875 2886 2000 . Compounds 1 1 2 and 1 1 3 are commercially available from Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc. in the trade name of Diapurest. Compounds 2 1 and 2 5 are prepared by the method described in JP H02 503441 A 1990 . Compounds 3 1 and 3 5 are prepared by the method described in JP S59 176221 A 1984 . Compound 4 is prepared by reference to JP 2012 001526 A and WO 2010 131600 A. Compound 4 18 is prepared by the method described in JP H07 101900 A 1995 . An antioxidant is commercially available. A compound of formula 6 where t is 1 is available from Sigma Aldrich Corporation. Compound 6 where t is 7 for instance is synthesized with the method described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 660 505.

Compounds whose synthetic methods are not described can be prepared with the methods described in books such as Organic Syntheses John Wiley Sons Inc. Organic Reactions John Wiley Sons Inc. Comprehensive Organic Synthesis Pergamon Press and New experimental Chemistry Course Maruzen Co. Ltd. Japan . The composition is prepared with known methods using the compounds thus obtained. For example the component compounds are mixed and dissolved in each other by heating.

Last the use of the composition are explained. The composition mainly has a minimum temperature of about 10 C. or lower a maximum temperature of about 70 C. or higher and an optical anisotropy in the range of about 0.07 to about 0.20. A composition having an optical anisotropy in the range of about 0.08 to about 0.25 may be prepared by adjusting the ratio of the component compounds or by mixing with other liquid crystal compound. Further a composition having an optical anisotropy in the range of about 0.10 to about 0.30 may be prepared by this method. A device including this composition has a large voltage holding ratio. This composition is suitable for an AM device especially for an AM device of a transmission type. This composition can be used as a composition having a nematic phase and as an optically active composition by adding an optically active compound.

The composition can be used for an AM device. It can also be used for a PM device. The composition can also be used for the AM device and the PM device having a mode such as PC TN STN ECB OCB IPS FFS VA or FPA. It is especially desirable to use the composition for the AM device having a mode of IPS FFS or VA. These devices may be of a reflection type a transmission type or a semi transmission type. It is desirable to use the composition for a device having the transmission type. The composition can be used for an amorphous silicon TFT device or a polycrystal silicon TFT device. The composition is also usable for an NCAP nematic curvilinear aligned phase device prepared by microcapsulating the composition and for a PD polymer dispersed device in which a 3D network polymer is formed in the composition.

One example of methods for producing the device of a polymer sustained alignment type is as follows. A device having two substrates called an array substrate and a color filter substrate is prepared. At least one of the substrates has an electrode layer. Liquid crystal compounds are mixed to give a liquid crystal composition. A polymerizable compound is added to this composition. An additive may be further added as required. The composition is poured into the device. The device is irradiated with light preferably UV light while being applied with a voltage so as to polymerize the polymerizable compound and form a composition including a polymer. The device of a polymer sustained alignment type can be produced by this procedure.

In the procedure liquid crystal molecules are oriented by the effect of an electric field when a voltage is applied. The molecules of the polymerizable compound are also oriented according to the orientation. A polymer where the orientation is maintained is formed since the polymerizable compound is polymerized by UV light under these conditions. The response time of the device is decreased by the effect of the polymer. Image burn in can also be reduced at the same time by the effect of the polymer since the burn in is a malfunction of liquid crystal molecules. Incidentally it may be possible that the polymerizable compound in the composition is polymerized in advance and then this composition is placed between the substrates of an LCD device.

The invention will be explained in more details by way of examples but is not limited to the examples. The invention includes a mixture of composition LC A and composition LC B . The invention also includes a mixture prepared by mixing at least two compositions in Examples. Compounds prepared herein were identified by methods such as NMR analysis. The characteristics of the compounds compositions and devices were measured by the methods described below.

A model DRX 500 apparatus made by Bruker BioSpin Corporation was used for the measurement. In the measurement of H NMR a sample was dissolved in a deuterated solvent such as CDCl and the measurement was carried out under the conditions of room temperature 500 MHz and an accumulation of 16 scans. Tetramethylsilane was used as an internal standard. In the measurement of F NMR CFClwas used as the internal standard and 24 scans were accumulated. In the explanation of the NMR spectra the symbols s d t q quin sex m and br stand for a singlet a doublet a triplet a quartet a quintet a sextet a multiplet and a broad peak respectively.

A gas chromatograph Model GC 14B made by Shimadzu Corporation was used for the measurement. The carrier gas was helium 2 mL min . The sample injector and the detector FID were set to 280 C. and 300 C. respectively. A capillary column DB 1 length 30 m bore 0.32 mm film thickness 0.25 m dimethylpolysiloxane as the stationary phase non polar made by Agilent Technologies Inc. was used to separate component compounds. After being kept at 200 C. for 2 min the column was further heated to 280 C. at a rate of 5 C. min. A sample was dissolved in acetone 0.1 wt and 1 L of the solution was injected into the sample injector. The recorder used was Model C R5A Chromatopac Integrator made by Shimadzu Corporation or its equivalent. The resulting gas chromatogram showed the retention time of peaks and the peak areas corresponding to the component compounds.

A solvent for diluting the sample may also be used such as chloroform or hexane etc. The following capillary columns may also be used to separate the component compounds HP 1 made by Agilent Technologies Inc. length 30 m bore 0.32 mm film thickness 0.25 m Rtx 1 made by Restek Corporation length 30 m bore 0.32 mm film thickness 0.25 m and BP 1 made by SGE International Pty. Ltd. length 30 m bore 0.32 mm film thickness 0.25 m . A capillary column CBP1 M50 025 length 50 m bore 0.25 mm film thickness 0.25 m made by Shimadzu Corporation may also be used for avoiding an overlap of peaks of the compounds.

The proportions of the liquid crystal compounds included in the composition may be calculated with the following method. A mixture of the liquid crystal compounds are detected by use of a gas chromatograph FID . The ratio of peak areas in the gas chromatogram corresponds to the ratio weight ratio of the liquid crystal compounds. When the capillary columns described above are used the correction coefficient of the respective liquid crystal compounds may be regarded as 1 one . Accordingly the proportions weight percentage of the liquid crystal compounds can be calculated from the ratio of the peak areas.

A composition itself was used as a sample when the characteristics of the composition or the device were measured. When the characteristics of a compound were measured a sample for measurement was prepared by mixing this compound 15 wt with a mother liquid crystal 85 wt . The characteristic values of the compound were calculated from the values obtained from measurements by an extrapolation method Extrapolated value Measured value of sample 0.85 Measured value of mother liquid crystal 0.15. When a smectic phase or crystals deposited at 25 C. at this ratio the ratio of the compound to the mother liquid crystals was changed in the order of 10 wt 90 wt 5 wt 95 wt and 1 wt 99 wt . The values of the maximum temperature the optical anisotropy the viscosity and the dielectric anisotropy regarding the compound were obtained by means of this extrapolation method.

The mother liquid crystal described below was used. The proportions of the component compounds were expressed as weight percentages.

The characteristics were measured with the following methods. Most are methods described in the JEITA standards JEITA ED 2521B which was deliberated and established by Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association abbreviated to JEITA or the modified methods. No thin film transistors TFT were attached to the TN device used for the measurement.

1 Maximum Temperature of a Nematic Phase NI C. A sample was placed on a hot plate in a melting point apparatus equipped with a polarizing microscope and was heated at a rate of 1 C. min. The temperature was measured when a part of the sample began to change from a nematic phase to an isotropic liquid. The higher limit of the temperature range of a nematic phase may be abbreviated to the maximum temperature. 

2 Minimum Temperature of a Nematic Phase Tc C. A sample having a nematic phase was placed in glass vials and then kept in freezers at temperatures of 0 C. 10 C. 20 C. 30 C. and 40 C. for 10 days and then the liquid crystal phases were observed. For example when the sample maintained the nematic phase at 20 C. and changed to crystals or a smectic phase at 30 C. To was expressed as 

3 Viscosity bulk viscosity measured at 20 C. mPa s An E type viscometer made by Tokyo Keiki Inc. was used for the measurement.

4 Viscosity rotational viscosity 1 measured at 25 C. mPa s The measurement was carried out with the method described in M. Imai et al. Vol. 259 p. 37 1995 . A sample was poured into a VA device in which the distance between the two glass substrates cell gap was 20 m. A voltage in the range of 39 V to 50 V was applied stepwise with an increment of 1 volt to this device. After a period of 0.2 second with no voltage a voltage was applied repeatedly under the conditions of only one rectangular wave rectangular pulse 0.2 sec and no voltage 2 sec . The peak current and the peak time of the transient current generated by the applied voltage were measured. The value of rotational viscosity was obtained from these measured values and Equation 8 on page 40 of the paper of M. Imai et al. The value of the dielectric anisotropy necessary for the present calculation was measured according to item 6 .

5 Optical anisotropy refractive index anisotropy n measured at 25 C. The measurement was carried out using an Abbe refractometer with a polarizing plate attached to the ocular using light at a wavelength of 589 nanometers. The surface of the main prism was rubbed in one direction and then a sample was placed on the main prism. The refractive index was measured when the direction of the polarized light was parallel to that of the rubbing. The refractive index n was measured when the direction of polarized light was perpendicular to that of the rubbing. The value of n was calculated with the equation n n. 

6 Dielectric anisotropy measured at 25 C. The value of dielectric anisotropy was calculated with the equation . The dielectric constants and were measured as follows.

7 Threshold voltage Vth measured at 25 C. V An LCD evaluation system Model LCD 5100 made by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd. was used for the measurement. The light source was a halogen lamp. A sample was poured into a VA device having a normally black mode in which the distance between the two glass substrates cell gap was 4 m and the rubbing direction was antiparallel and then this device was sealed with a UV curable adhesive. The voltage to be applied to this device 60 Hz rectangular waves was stepwise increased in 0.02 V increments from 0 V up to 20 V. During the increase the device was vertically irradiated with light and the amount of light passing through the device was measured. A voltage transmittance curve was prepared in which the maximum amount of light corresponded to 100 transmittance and the minimum amount of light corresponded to 0 transmittance. The threshold voltage was expressed as the voltage at 10 transmittance.

8 Voltage Holding Ratio VHR 1a measured at 25 C. A TN device used for measurement had a polyimide alignment film and the distance between the two glass substrates cell gap was 5 m. A sample was poured in the device and then this device was sealed with a UV curable adhesive. A pulse voltage 60 microseconds at 5 V was applied to this device and the device was charged. A decreasing voltage was measured for 166.7 milliseconds with a high speed voltmeter and area A between the voltage curve and the horizontal axis in a unit cycle was obtained. The voltage holding ratio was expressed as a percentage of area A to area B that was the area without the decrease.

9 Voltage Holding Ratio VHR 2a measured at 60 C. The voltage holding ratio was measured by the method described above except that it was measured at 60 C. instead of 25 C. The resulting values were represented by the symbol VHR 2a. In a composition including a polymerizable compound the TN device was irradiated with UV light of 25 mW cmfor 400 sec while a voltage of 15 V was applied to polymerize the compound. A mercury xenon lamp Model Execure 4000 D made by Hoya Candeo Optronics Corp. was used for the irradiation with UV light.

10 Voltage Holding Ratio VHR 3a measured at 60 C. The stability to UV light was evaluated by measuring a voltage holding ratio after irradiation with UV light. A TN device used for the measurement had a polyimide alignment film and the cell gap was 5 m. A sample was poured into this device and then the device was irradiated with light for 167 min. The light source was a black light peak wavelength 369 nm and the distance between the device and the light source was 5 m. In the measurement of VHR 3a a decreasing voltage was measured for 166.7 milliseconds. In a composition including a polymerizable compound polymerization was carried out under the conditions described in item 9 . A composition having a large VHR 3a has a large stability to UV light.

11 Voltage Holding Ratio VHR 4a measured at 25 C. A TN device into which a sample was poured was heated in a constant temperature bath at 80 C. for 500 hours and then the stability to heat was evaluated by measuring the voltage holding ratio. In the measurement of VHR 4a a decreasing voltage was measured for 166.7 milliseconds. A composition having a large VHR 4a has a high stability to heat.

12 Response Time measured at 25 C. millisecond An LCD evaluation system Model LCD 5100 made by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd. was used for the measurement. The light source was a halogen lamp. The low pass filter was set at 5 kHz.

13 Specific Resistance measured at 25 C. cm A sample of 1.0 mL was poured into a vessel equipped with electrodes. A DC voltage 10 V was applied to the vessel and the DC current was measured after 10 sec. The specific resistance was calculated by the equation specific resistance voltage electric capacity of vessel DC current dielectric constant in vacuum . 

14 Concentration of Residual Monomer ReM wt A sample was prepared by adding a polymerizable compound to a liquid crystal composition in a proportion of 0.3 wt . A VA device used for the measurement had a polyimide alignment film that induced homeotropic orientation and an ITO film and the distance between the two glass substrates cell gap was 3.5 m. The sample was poured in the device and irradiated with UV light of 80 mW cmfor 375 sec while a voltage of 15 V was applied. A UV irradiation apparatus made by Eye Graphics Co. Ltd. was used for the UV irradiation. The concentration of the residual monomer was then measured by HPLC. The concentration of the residual monomer is the proportion wt of unreacted polymerizable compound based on the liquid crystal composition.

15 Pretilt Angle Pt measured at room temperature degree A sample was prepared by adding a polymerizable compound to a liquid crystal composition in a proportion of 0.3 wt . A VA device used for the measurement had a polyimide alignment film that induced homeotropic orientation and an ITO film and the distance between the two glass substrates cell gap was 3.5 m. The sample was poured in the device and the pretilt angle was measured on an ellipsometer REST 100 made by Otsuka Electronics Co. Ltd. The device was then irradiated with UV light of 80 mW cmfor 625 sec while a voltage of 15 V was applied. A UV irradiation apparatus made by Eye Graphics Co. Ltd. was used for the UV irradiation. The pretilt was measured again. The pretilt angle is the angle between the normal line of the substrate and liquid crystal molecules.

The compounds described in Examples were expressed in terms of symbols according to the definition in Table 3 described below. In Table 3 the configuration of 1 4 cyclohexylene is trans. The parenthesized number next to a symbolized compound in any Example corresponds to the number of the compound. The symbol means any other liquid crystal compound. The proportion percentage of a liquid crystal compound means the weight percentages wt based on the liquid crystal composition. Last the values of characteristics of the composition are summarized.

Composition LC A was prepared by mixing the liquid crystal compounds described below. The components and characteristics of the composition were as follows.

Polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 was added to the composition LC A described above and the mixture was heated at 120 C. for 5 min. The composition was placed in glass vials which were kept at 25 C. 0 C. 10 C. and 20 C. respectively. After 7 days whether the nematic phase had been maintained or crystals was deposited was determined by visual observation.

In Examples 2 to 8 the solubility of the mixture prepared by the addition of polymerizable compound 1 1 3 1 to composition LC A was evaluated in the same manner of Example 1. In Examples 9 and 10 a mixture in which polymerizable compound 1 1 3 1 and polymerizable compound 4 1 1 or 4 2 1 were added was evaluated. In Comparative Examples 1 to 8 a mixture in which polymerizable compound 4 1 1 or 4 2 1 alone was added was evaluated. The results are shown in Table 4. In Table 4 means that crystals were not observed and means that crystals were observed.

Comparative Example 9 in Table 4 shows a blank test. Crystals was not deposited even at 20 C. in composition LC A to which a polymerizable compound was not added. Compound 1 was added as a polymerizable compound in Examples 1 to 8. Crystals were deposited at low temperatures when the added amount was 2 wt as in the case of Example 4. In other Examples the solubility was good. In Examples 9 and 10 both of compounds 1 and 4 were added to composition LC A and the solubility was good. In contrast compound 4 was added as a polymerizable compound in Comparative Examples 1 to 8. A good solubility was observed when the added amount was 0.50 wt as in the case Comparative Example 1 however in the remaining seven Examples crystals were deposited. Compound 1 can be dissolved in the composition in a larger proportion as is shown in Table 4. A larger pretilt angle was achieved in the composition of the invention accordingly.

Polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 was added to composition LC A in a proportion of 0.80 wt . The composition had NI of 75.5 C. n of 0.111 of 3.1 and the values were almost equivalent to those of composition LC A . The composition was irradiated with UV light according to item 14 described above. Polymerization of compound 1 1 1 1 was not completed and was interrupted by setting up the conditions of light dose at 80 mW cmfor 375 sec. This method is suitable to evaluate the reactivity of a polymerizable compound and to measure an ability of the polymer giving a pretilt angle to liquid crystal molecules. After UV irradiation the concentration of the residual monomer was measured and found to be 0.61 wt . The amount of compound 1 1 1 1 was reduced from 0.80 wt to 0.61 wt in spite of a small light dose. From the results it was found that the compound had a good polymerizability. The pretilt angles were measured before and after the UV irradiation according to item 15 described above. The results were 0.2 and 1.3 respectively. It was thus found that the polymer of polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 could give a large pretilt angle to liquid crystal molecules.

In Examples 12 to 14 and Comparative Example 10 the concentration of the residual monomer ReM and the pretilt angle Pt before and after the UV irradiation were measured in the same manner of Example 11. The results are shown in Table 5.

From the difference between the added amount of the polymerizable compound and the concentration of the residual monomer in Examples 11 to 14 it was found that the polymerizable compound was effectively consumed by polymerization. With regard to the pretilt angle it was found that the polymer of polymerizable compound 1 1 3 1 used in Examples 12 and 13 was useful as well as the polymer of polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 used in Example 11 is useful. In Example 14 the pretilt angle after the UV irradiation was 2.0 when polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 was added along with polymerizable compound 4 1 1 . The value was larger than 1.3 in Example 11. The results show that a combination of two kinds of polymerizable compounds is effective. Incidentally a pretilt angle was 1.1 for polymerizable compound 4 1 1 in Example 10 which supports the combination effect.

In Examples and Comparative Examples described above composition LC A was used. Next compositions LC B to LC M were prepared and polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 was added to these compositions respectively. The components and the characteristics of these composition were as follows.

Polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 prepared above was added to compositions LC B to LC M and the concentration of residual monomer and the pretilt angle before and after the UV irradiation were measured in the same manner of Example 11. The results are shown in Table 6.

From the difference between the added amount of the polymerizable compound and the concentration of the residual monomer in Examples 15 to 26 it was found that the polymerizable compound was effectively consumed by polymerization. With regard to the pretilt angle it was found that the polymer of polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 was effective to give pretilt angles ranging from 0.9 to 1.8 to liquid crystal molecules in a variety of compositions. Incidentally compound 4 1 1 was used instead of polymerizable compound 1 1 1 1 in Example 11. The pretilt angle was 0.6 and the effect was not so large. In summary it is clear from Tables 4 to 6 that polymerizable compound 1 easily polymerized by UV light and the concentration of the residual monomer was small. The polymer of polymerizable compound 1 is effective in giving a pretilt angle of 0.6 to 3.5 to liquid crystal molecules in a variety of compositions. A larger pretilt angle can be expected by a combination of polymerizable compounds 1 and 4 . Accordingly it is concluded that the composition of the invention has good characteristics compared to a conventional composition used for a PSA type device.

The liquid crystal composition of the invention includes a polymerizable compound having a high solubility and satisfies at least one of characteristics such as a high maximum temperature a low minimum temperature a small viscosity a suitable optical anisotropy a large negative dielectric anisotropy a large specific resistance a high stability to ultraviolet light and a high stability to heat or is suitably balanced between at least two of the characteristics. The LCD device of the invention that includes a composition having characteristics such as a small residual amount of the polymerizable compound and a large pretilt angle can be used widely for a liquid crystal projector a liquid crystal television and so forth since it has characteristics such as a small rate of image burn in a short response time a large voltage holding ratio a low threshold voltage a large contrast ratio and a long service life.

