---

title: Method of providing notification and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method of providing notification information in an electronic device includes establishing a wireless communication between the electronic device and an external device, detecting an event to be notified in the electronic device, obtaining a status of the electronic device, and determining whether to transmit an notification on the event to an external device, based on the status of the electronic device. An electronic device includes a transceiver configured to establish a wireless communication between the electronic device and an external device, and a processor configured to detect an event to be notified in the electronic device, obtain a status of the electronic device, and determine whether to transmit an notification on the event to an external device, based on the status of the electronic device. Other embodiments are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509828&OS=09509828&RS=09509828
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09509828
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140903
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application No. 10 2013 0105774 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Sep. 3 2013 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a method of providing notification in an electronic device and the electronic device thereof.

As mobile communication technology develops electronic devices are provided in various forms such as a smart phone a wearable device and a tablet personal computer PC and may transmit and receive various data through a communication system between electronic devices. The electronic device may provide various functions such as a phone function a message function and an alarm function.

The electronic device may provide an event that has occurred in an electronic device to a user through various output methods and transmit and receive information about an event to and from another electronic device with various communication methods.

In the conventional art when a user uses a plurality of electronic devices for providing notification by providing the same notification information through each electronic device unnecessary notification may be repeatedly provided and thus in each electronic device power consumption may increase. Further as notification information checked through the electronic device is repeatedly provided through another device inconvenience in which the user should repeatedly check the same notification information may occur.

A method in an electronic device is provided. The method includes establishing a wireless communication between the electronic device and an external device detecting an event to be notified in the electronic device obtaining a status of the electronic device and determining whether to transmit an notification on the event to an external device based on the status of the electronic device.

In some embodiments the electronic device is configured to transmit the notification to the external device when a screen of the electronic device is not available to display a notification.

In some embodiments the method further includes determining whether to present the notification on a screen of the electronic device based on the status of the external object.

In some embodiments the electronic device is configured to display the notification when the external device is not available to display a notification.

In some embodiments the method further includes determining whether the event to be notified has a priority over the status of the electronic device.

In some embodiments the method further includes determining which one of the electronic device and the external device being positioned within visibility of a user displaying the notification on the determined device.

In some embodiments the method further includes measuring a distance between the electronic device and the external device transmitting the notification when the distance is less than a threshold distance.

In some embodiments the method further includes when the notification is transmitted to the external device determining whether the notification on the external device is read storing a status of reading the notification in the electronic device.

An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a transceiver configured to establish a wireless communication between the electronic device and an external device a processor configured to detect an event to be notified in the electronic device obtain a status of the electronic device and determine whether to transmit an notification on the event to an external device based on the status of the electronic device.

In some embodiments the electronic device is configured to transmit the notification to the external device when a screen of the electronic device is not available to display a notification.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to obtain a status of the external device and determine whether to present the notification on a screen of the electronic device based on the status of the external object.

In some embodiments the electronic device is configured to display the notification when the external device is not available to display a notification.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to determine whether the event to be notified has a priority over the status of the electronic device.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to determine which one of the electronic device and the external device being positioned within visibility of a user display the notification on the determined device.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to measure a distance between the electronic device and the external device.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to transmit the notification when the distance is less than a threshold distance.

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to when the notification is transmitted to the external device determine whether the notification on the external device is read 

In some embodiments the processor is further configured to cause a status of reading the notification to be stored in the electronic device.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

In various embodiments according to a method of providing notification and an electronic device thereof it can be determined whether at least one another electronic device connected to the electronic device can be used and at least one electronic device that provides notification information according to a designated reference can be determined. Further in various embodiments according to a method of providing notification and an electronic device thereof when an event to provide notification occurs in an electronic device in which at least one function is executing information on whether to output notification or whether the output notification has been checked can be managed.

While the present invention may be embodied in many different forms specific embodiments of the present invention are shown in drawings and are described herein in detail with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments illustrated. The same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. Detailed descriptions of well known functions and structures incorporated herein may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the present invention.

An expression of comprising and can comprise used in the present invention indicates existence of a corresponding function operation element and does not limit at least one additional function operation and element. In addition in the present invention a term comprise or have will be understood to imply the inclusion of a characteristic a numeral a step an operation a element a component or a combination thereof described in the specification but not the exclusion of at least one another characteristic numeral step operation element component or combination thereof.

An electronic device according to the present invention may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include a smart phone a tablet personal computer tablet PC a mobile phone an audiovisual phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. at least one of a head mounted device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace electronic accessories and a smart watch .

According to an embodiment the electronic device can be a smart home appliance having a communication function. The smart home appliance can include at least one of for example a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio device a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a television box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic frame.

According to an embodiment the electronic device can include at least one of various medical devices e.g. a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT a camera and an ultrasonic wave device a navigation device a global positioning system GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device a ship electronic equipment e.g. a navigation device and a gyro compass for a ship avionics and a security device.

According to an embodiment the electronic device can include at least one of a portion of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various measuring devices e.g. water supply electricity gas or electric wave . The electronic device according to the present invention can be at least one combination of the foregoing various devices. Further it will become apparent to a person of common skill in the art that the electronic device according to the present invention is not limited to the foregoing devices. Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. A term user used in various embodiments can include a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. artificial intelligence electronic device using an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device can include a notification control module a bus a processor a memory an input and output interface a display and a communication interface .

The notification control module can refer to a database stored at the memory of the electronic device or a database of each application. When the notification control module detects that an event to provide notification to the electronic device has occurred the notification control module can determine whether the electronic device is to output the notification or another electronic device e.g. an electronic device or an electronic device connected to the electronic device is to output the notification. Further the notification control module can acquire information about whether notification information related to notification output through the electronic device or another electronic device has been checked by a user of the electronic device and update a database stored at for example the memory or a database of each application. When a check history of the notification information does not exist the notification control module can process to re output notification corresponding to the notification information through the electronic device or another electronic device.

The bus can be a circuit that connects the foregoing elements and that transfers communication e.g. a control message between the foregoing elements.

The processor can receive an instruction from the foregoing another elements e.g. the memory the input and output interface the display and the communication interface through for example the bus decode the received instruction and execute a calculation or a data processing according to the decoded instruction.

The memory can store an instruction or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the input and output interface the display and the communication interface or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory can include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an application programming interface API or an application . The foregoing each programming module can be formed with software firmware hardware or at least two combinations thereof.

The kernel can control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for executing an operation or a function embodied in the remaining programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel can provide an interface that accesses to an individual element of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application to control or manage the individual element.

The middleware can function as an intermediary that enables the API or the application to communicate with the kernel to transmit and receive data. Further the middleware can perform load balancing of a work request using a method of aligning a priority that can use a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device in for example at least one application of the plurality of applications in relation to work requests received from the plurality of applications .

The API is an interface in which the application can control a function in which the kernel or the middleware provides and can include at least one interface or function for for example file control window control image processing or character control.

The input and output interface receives an input of an instruction or data from for example the user to transfer the instruction or the data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display can display an image or data to the user.

The communication interface can connect communication between the electronic device and another electronic device or electronic device or a server . The communication interface can support a predetermined short range communication protocol e.g. wireless fidelity Wifi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC or communication of a predetermined network e.g. Internet a local area network LAN a wire area network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or plain old telephone service POTS . The electronic devices and each can be the same e.g. the same type device as the electronic device or can be a device different e.g. different type from the electronic device .

The electronic device can be connected to another electronic device through network communication. Hereinafter when describing various embodiments as in another electronic device or the second electronic device e.g. when the electronic device is represented with a first electronic device another electronic device connected to the electronic device can be represented with the electronic device shown in . In the electronic device and the electronic device are divided to describe a method connected to the electronic device and unless a communication method such as short range wireless communication not shown or the network is distinguished the electronic device or the electronic device can be represented with another electronic device connected to the electronic device . Therefore unless it is specially separately described the electronic device described in various embodiments and embodiments thereof can be applied to the electronic device connected through the network . The server displayed in can be applied with a similar method.

Referring to the notification control module can include at least one of a determining module a check module an acquiring module and a providing module .

The determining module can determine notification information to provide to the user. According to an embodiment the determining module can determine notification information about some event of events acquired in the electronic device as notification information to provide to the user. For example the electronic device can determine whether the user checks notification information related to at least one event. The electronic device can determine notification information related to an event in which the user does not check as notification information to provide. The event can include for example a phone reception event a message reception event an alarm event or a social network service SNS event.

According to an embodiment the determining module can determine whether to output notification of an event e.g. data received in the electronic device through the input and output interface or the display . When the electronic device determines notification information to provide through the determining module the electronic device can detect at least one another electronic device e.g. the electronic device and the electronic device that can be connected to the electronic device through the check module .

According to an embodiment the check module can acquire information about another electronic device having a history at least one time connected to the electronic device and search for at least one another electronic device that can connect communication through the communication interface of the electronic device with another method.

The acquiring module can acquire status information related to at least one of the electronic device or at least one another electronic device e.g. the electronic device the electronic device and the server communicating with the electronic device . According to an embodiment status information can include information that determines whether the user uses each of the electronic device or another electronic device. For example the acquiring module can acquire information about whether the electronic device or another electronic device is in an enabling status or a disabling status. According to an embodiment when the electronic device is in an enabling status it can be determined that the user uses the electronic device . For example it can be determined whether each of the electronic device or another electronic device is in an enabling status or a disenabling status through an operation status of a display functionally connected to each of the electronic device or another electronic device. For example when a display functionally connected to the electronic device is turned on it can be determined that the electronic device is in an enabling status. Further for example status information of the electronic device or another electronic device can include status information about the user. The status information on the user can include information detected through at least one of sensors such as a touch sensor a grip sensor a motion sensor e.g. an acceleration sensor an gyro sensor an image sensor a proximity detection sensor a microphone a living body detection sensor fingerprint detection sensor vein detection sensor temperature sensor and an image sensor e.g. a sight line recognition sensor functionally connected to the electronic device or another electronic device. Further the acquiring module can acquire information about a communication state with at least one another electronic device connected to the electronic device or at least one communication method that can be connected to another electronic device as the status information about the electronic device or another electronic device.

For example when a motion sensor functionally connected to the electronic device detects a motion of the electronic device it can be determined that the user uses the electronic device . Further for example when a touch sensor functionally connected to the electronic device detects a user input it can be determined that the user uses the electronic device . Further for example the user s sight line can be detected through an image sensor that can recognize a sight line functionally connected to the electronic device . When the user s sight line is detected in the electronic device it can be determined that the user uses the electronic device . Further for example the electronic device is a wearable device and when it is detected that the user wears the electronic device through a grip sensor and a proximity detection sensor functionally connected to the electronic device it can be determined that the user uses the electronic device .

According to an embodiment the status information can include attribute information of an application executing in the electronic device or another electronic device. For example attribute information of an application can include information about whether to provide notification information while executing an application. According to an embodiment the status information can include power source status information or load information of the electronic device or another electronic device.

According to an embodiment the status information can include attribute information of notification information. For example attribute information of notification information can include priority information about notification information. For example attribute information of notification information can include information on whether an event occurs and time information consumed to provide notification information related to the event. For example attribute information of notification information related to a phone event can be designated as an event that should be provided in real time. According to an embodiment the status information can include designated information. For example an electronic device to provide notification information can be designated according to a designated time or a designated location. For example at a work time it can be set to receive notification information through another electronic device connected to an electronic device and at a time other than a work time it can be set to receive notification information through an electronic device. Further for example in a vehicle it can be set to receive notification information through another electronic device connected to an electronic device and at a home it can be set to receive notification information through an electronic device. According to an embodiment the status information can include distance information or communication information between the electronic device and another electronic device.

According to an embodiment the acquiring module can acquire at least one information of the foregoing status information or a combination thereof.

The providing module can determine at least one device to provide notification information related to an event that has occurred in the electronic device of the electronic device or other electronic devices communicating with the electronic device based on the status information acquired through the acquiring module in an embodiment. The providing module can control to provide notification information through the electronic device or another electronic device based on the determined result. For example when it is determined that the user is using the electronic device based on the status information acquired in the acquiring module the providing module can provide notification information through the electronic device . When it is determined that the user does not use the electronic device the providing module can transmit notification information to another electronic device so that another electronic device connected to the electronic device provides notification information.

When the status information acquired in the electronic device is attribute information of an application for example when it is determined that an application executing in the electronic device has a priority lower than that of notification information to provide based on the status information acquired in the acquiring module the providing module can provide notification information through the electronic device . Further when it is determined that an application executing in the electronic device has a priority higher than that of notification information to provide the providing module can transmit notification information to another electronic device so that another electronic device connected to the electronic device provides notification information.

When the status information acquired in the electronic device is load information of the electronic device for example when a load of the electronic device is lower than a designated reference e.g. 90 of a total load that can process the providing module can provide notification information through the electronic device . Further when a load of the electronic device is higher than a designated reference the providing module can transmit notification information to another electronic device so that another electronic device connected to the electronic device provides notification information. When the status information acquired in the electronic device is power information of the electronic device for example when a battery residual quantity of the electronic device is higher than a designated reference e.g. 10 of a total battery capacity or 150 mAh the providing module can provide notification information through the electronic device . Further when a battery residual quantity of the electronic device is lower than a designated reference the providing module can transmit notification information to another electronic device so that another electronic device connected to the electronic device provides notification information.

For example in the status information acquired in the electronic device when notification information e.g. incoming call notification information should be provided in real time based on attribute information of notification information the providing module can control to provide notification information through a device in which the user uses among the electronic device or another electronic device connected to the electronic device . When it is unnecessary to provide notification information e.g. weather information notification information in real time based on attribute information of notification information the providing module can control to provide notification information through a device having a small load or a large battery capacity among the electronic device or another electronic device. According to an embodiment a designated reference of various information related to the electronic device can be variously changed according to the user s setting a designer s setting or product information about the electronic device .

According to an embodiment when it is determined that the providing module transmits notification information to at least one another electronic device the electronic device can receive additionally or alternatively the status information from each of at least one another electronic device connected to the electronic device determine a device e.g. the electronic device in which a display e.g. a touch screen is in an on state and or in an unlock state among at least one another electronic device using the received status information and transmit notification that has occurred to the determined device.

Referring to for example the electronic device can be represented with a first electronic device and the electronic device can be represented with a second electronic device . According to an embodiment described with reference to the first electronic device can be represented with a smart phone and the second electronic device can be represented with a wearable smart watch. The first electronic device and the second electronic device are not limited to a smart phone or a wearable watch and can be electronic devices of various forms that can apply to various embodiments of the present invention.

The first electronic device can check that an event to provide notification has occurred and output notification information. In a method of outputting notification information that has occurred the first electronic device can control the first electronic device that detects that notification has occurred to output notification information or control the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device to output notification information.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect an event to provide notification. The event to provide notification can include calling information Short Message Service SMS information missed call information and alarm information of a notification function in which the first electronic device receives.

At a time point that detects an event to provide notification when the first electronic device is in a disabling status e.g. a sleep mode the first electronic device can transmit notification information that has occurred in the first electronic device so that another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device outputs the notification information. In order for the first electronic device to transmit notification information that has occurred to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device the first electronic device can check for example at least one another electronic device connected to the first electronic device . According to an embodiment in order for the first electronic device to transmit notification information that has occurred to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device the first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device having a history of at least one time connection with short range wireless communication or communication using the network . According to an embodiment in order for the first electronic device to transmit notification information that has occurred to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device the first electronic device can determine at least one another electronic device that can connect with short range wireless communication or communication using the network . The first electronic device can be connected to at least one determined another electronic device. For example when a second electronic device is included in at least one determined another electronic device the first electronic device can receive status information related to the connected second electronic device . The status information related to the second electronic device can include at least one of information e.g. enabling information of the second electronic device about whether the user uses the second electronic device attribute information of an application executing in the second electronic device battery residual quantity information e.g. power information or load information of the second electronic device communication information or distance information between the second electronic device and the electronic device and the status information e.g. at least one sensor information acquired by a sensor functionally connected to the second electronic device of the user of the second electronic device .

The first electronic device can determine at least one device to output notification based on a designated priority according to the received status information of the second electronic device or an importance level designated to an element included in the status information. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can include at least one processor. When the first electronic device includes a plurality of processors the plurality of processors can include an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The AP or the CP can be independently formed as each processor or can be included in one processor. The AP can be an application of the first electronic device or a processor that controls the operation of at least one partial device or a module constituting the first electronic device and the CP can be a processor that transmits and receives information to and from the second electronic device through short range wireless communication or communication using the network . When the first electronic device detects information about an event to provide notification received from an external device e.g. the server through the CP the first electronic device can determine an operation status of the AP that controls operation of outputting notification. When it is determined that the AP is in a disabling status e.g. a sleep mode the first electronic device can control to output notification information through at least one another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device instead of outputting notification information through the first electronic device . Here in an embodiment of a sleep mode when a current amount or a power amount in which the device consumes is a designated numerical value e.g. 20 mW or less and it can be determined that a current consumed amount or a power consumed amount of the same level is maintained. In this case the first electronic device can transmit notification information to at least one other electronic device for example so as to output alarm information from at least one other electronic device through the CP instead of controlling operations of the AP. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect an event to provide notification and check a connection status of another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device designated to a top priority according to the status information of the first electronic device or information stored at a database. The first electronic device can check that the second electronic device is connected and transmit notification information to the second electronic device .

According to various embodiments the first electronic device can have authority that can control operations of the second electronic device . In this case the first electronic device can transmit notification information including an instruction that controls the second electronic device to output notification of the first electronic device to the second electronic device . The second electronic device can receive notification information from the first electronic device and output notification according to notification information. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph . When the AP of the first electronic device is in a disabling status at a calling request reception time point with reference to the status information or a database the first electronic device can determine at least one device for outputting received calling information among other electronic devices including the second electronic device that can output calling request information received from Joseph . For example the first electronic device can transmit phone connection request information received from Joseph to the second electronic device determined to output notification information. The second electronic device can output calling request information as illustrated in according to the received information and when a communication connection icon is selected in the second electronic device a user of the second electronic device can perform a phone connection with Joseph .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can receive a text character message from Joseph . When the AP of the first electronic device is in a disabling status at a text message reception time point with reference to the status information or a database the first electronic device can determine at least one device for outputting message information among other electronic devices including the second electronic device that can output text message information received from Joseph . The first electronic device can transmit text message information received from Joseph to the second electronic device determined to output notification information. The second electronic device can output text message information b according to received information and the user of the second electronic device can check a text message in the second electronic device through a designated operation e.g. selection of a message check icon output to the display of the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect missed call information according to a phone connection received from Joseph . When the AP of the first electronic device is in a disabling status at a time point that detects missed call information with reference to the status information or a database the first electronic device can determine at least one device for providing missed call information among other electronic devices including the second electronic device that can output missed call information received from Joseph . The first electronic device can transmit missed call information received from Joseph to the second electronic device determined to output notification information. The second electronic device can output missed call information as illustrated in c of according to received information and can request a phone connection from the second electronic device to the electronic device of Joseph through the communication interface of the first electronic device with a designated operation e.g. selection of a calling request icon output to the display of the second electronic device . According to various embodiments an event to provide notification that controls the first electronic device to output from the second electronic device is not limited to embodiments described in and various embodiments of similar methods can be applied thereto.

Referring to for example the electronic device can be represented with a first electronic device the electronic device can be represented with a second electronic device and the same electronic device as the electronic device or the electronic device or an electronic device similar to the electronic device or the electronic device can be represented with a third electronic device . Hereinafter when describing an embodiment of the present invention the second electronic device can be applied to the electronic device and the third electronic device can be applied to the same electronic device as the electronic device or an electronic device similar to the electronic device . In an embodiment described with reference to for example the first electronic device can be represented with a smart phone the second electronic device can be represented with a smart television and the third electronic device can be represented with a wearable smart watch. The first electronic device can check that an event to provide notification has occurred and can output notification information. In a method of outputting notification information that has occurred the first electronic device having detected notification occurrence can output notification information and the second electronic device connected to the first electronic device can output notification information.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect an event to provide notification. When the first electronic device detects an event to provide notification the first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device or the AP functionally connected to the first electronic device is in a disabling status. According to an embodiment when the first electronic device or the AP is in a disabling status for example the display of the first electronic device can be in an off state or the AP can be in a sleep mode status. When the first electronic device is in a disabling status the first electronic device e.g. the providing module can determine so that another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device or the third electronic device connected to the first electronic device outputs notification information that has occurred in the first electronic device . In order to transmit notification information that has occurred the first electronic device can check the first electronic device and another electronic device connected to for example the communication interface . Further in order to transmit notification information that has occurred the first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device having a history connected at least one time by the communication interface . Further in order to transmit notification information that has occurred the first electronic device can check another electronic device that can be connected through the communication interface .

The first electronic device can be connected to the checked at least one another electronic device and for example when the second electronic device and the third electronic device is included in at least one another electronic device the first electronic device can receive the status information of another electronic device including the connected second electronic device and third electronic device . The status information of the second electronic device or the third electronic device can include information e.g. enabling information of the second electronic device or the third electronic device about whether the user uses the second electronic device or the third electronic device information about an operation e.g. an application being performed importance level information of an operation e.g. an application being performed battery residual quantity information or power information communication state information between the second electronic device or the third electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. a first electronic device and user information e.g. at least one sensing information in which the second electronic device or the third electronic device acquires of the second electronic device or the third electronic device . According to an embodiment sensing information can be information about a state of each electronic device acquired through at least one sensor included in the second electronic device or the third electronic device . The first electronic device can determine a priority according to an importance level designated to elements included in the received status information of the second electronic device or the third electronic device and can determine at least one another electronic device to output notification with reference to the status information and a designated priority.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can check a connecting method of the second electronic device or the third electronic device connected by the communication interface and can determine signal information of a connected communication method. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can determine a communication environment through signal information of a communication method of transmitting and receiving information to and from the second electronic device or the third electronic device and determine another electronic device to transmit notification with reference to a designated priority of an element such as stability of a communication method an information transmitting and receiving speed of the connected communication method or a distance that can transmit and receive according to communication signal intensity. The first electronic device can determine the third electronic device faster than that of the second electronic device in an information transmitting and receiving speed of a connected communication method as another electronic device to transmit notification according to a designated condition and transmit output information of notification that has occurred in the first electronic device to the third electronic device . The third electronic device can output information about notification that has occurred in the first electronic device according to received information.

According to an embodiment when determining another electronic device to transmit notification the first electronic device can determine an electronic device having low real time dependence of an application executing in at least one another electronic device as a device to transmit notification. For example the first electronic device can determine an application that should execute without stopping such as a moving picture photographing application or a game application as an application having high real time dependence. Further for example the first electronic device can determine an application that can execute after stopping such as Internet as an application having low real time dependence. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can check real time dependence of an application in which another electronic device including the second electronic device and the third electronic device is executing. When outputting notification information to an electronic device executing for example some application real time dependence can be numerical value information of damage e.g. data damage that can cause when executing the application. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can use a real time dependence numerical value as information for determining an electronic device to provide notification. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can store information e.g. real time dependence information of an application about at least one application included in the second electronic device or the third electronic device at a database through the status information in which the second electronic device or the third electronic device receives and the database can check information about a priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence of an application stored at each electronic device. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can compare real time dependence information about a media data reproduction operation executing in the second electronic device and real time dependence information of a recording operation of media data performing in the third electronic device and can determine the second electronic device executing an application having low real time dependence to output notification information. The first electronic device can transmit output information of notification information that has occurred to the second electronic device . The second electronic device can output notification information that has occurred in the first electronic device according to the received information.

Referring to for example the electronic device can be represented with a first electronic device and the electronic device can be a second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device can be represented with a smart phone and the second electronic device can be represented with a wearable smart watch.

Referring to while executing at least one application the first electronic device can detect that an event to provide notification has occurred. The first electronic device can determine whether to output notification information with reference to attribute information e.g. real time dependence information of at least one executing application. When it is determined that the first electronic device does not output notification information the first electronic device can determine the second electronic device as an electronic device to output notification information and transmit output information of the detected notification information to the determined second electronic device .

When the first electronic device detects an event to provide notification the first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is to output notification information. According to an embodiment when the first electronic device detects an event to provide notification information the first electronic device can acquire the status information of the first electronic device . When the first electronic device executes at least one application at a time point that detects an event to provide notification the first electronic device can determine whether at least one executing application is an application designated to display notification. According to an embodiment while recording media data the first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph . When a calling request event occurs while media data recording with reference to for example a database of an executing media data recording application or a database for processing an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device the first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is set to output notification about a calling request. When the first electronic device is set to not display notification of a calling request event that has occurred while media data recording the first electronic device can control another electronic device to output information about a calling request that has occurred. The first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device that can connect through the communication interface . The first electronic device can receive the status information from at least one connected another electronic device and select at least one another electronic device to transmit notification information with reference to the status information. According to an embodiment the first electronic device in a wearing the status and that is not in a maximum power saving mode or a sleep mode e.g. a disabling status can be designated to have a high priority to be determined as a device to provide notification at a database. When the first electronic device checks that the second electronic device is in a wearing status and is not in a sleep mode status through the status information received from the second electronic device the first electronic device can transmit notification information about a calling request received from Joseph to the second electronic device based on database information and the second electronic device can output notification according to received information.

According to another embodiment the first electronic device can detect an alarm event output while executing a navigation application. The first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is set to output notification about an alarm event output while executing a navigation application with reference to a database of the executing navigation application or a database for processing an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device . When the first electronic device is set to not display notification about an alarm event output that has occurred while executing a navigation application the first electronic device can control another electronic device to output information about an alarm event that has occurred. The first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device that can connect through the communication interface . The first electronic device can receive the status information from at least one connected another electronic device and select at least one another electronic device to transmit notification information with reference to the status information. According to an embodiment a wearing electronic device that is not in a state such as a maximum power saving mode or a sleep mode can be designated to have a high priority to be determined as an electronic device to provide notification at a database of the first electronic device . When the first electronic device checks that the second electronic device is in a wearing status and is not in a sleep mode status through the status information received from the second electronic device the first electronic device can transmit notification information of an alarm event that has occurred to the second electronic device based on database information and the second electronic device can output alarm according to received information.

According to various embodiments the first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is to output information about an event to provide notification that has occurred according to a checked time. According to an embodiment the first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph while recording media data. When a calling request event occurs while media data recording with reference to a database of executing media data recording or a database for processing an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device the first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is set to output notification about the calling request. When the first electronic device is set designated not to display notification about a calling request event that has occurred in the first electronic device from a time point 11 00 to a time point 14 30 the first electronic device can control another electronic device to output information about a calling request event that has occurred from a time point 11 00 to a time point 14 30 . When a calling request event has occurred in the first electronic device from a time point 11 00 to a time point 14 30 the first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device that can output notification about the calling request event instead of the first electronic device . The first electronic device can receive the status information from at least one connected another electronic device and select at least one another electronic device to transmit notification information with reference to the status information. According to various embodiments when the first electronic device determines at least one another electronic device to output notification about an event that has occurred the first electronic device can determine at least one another electronic device to output notification through information designated information about a designated range of at least one information of various status information such as location information of the first electronic device illumination amount information of the first electronic device or an area in which the first electronic device is located and moving speed information of the first electronic device instead of limiting to designated time information.

Referring to the first electronic device can detect that an event to provide notification has occurred while performing at least one operation. The first electronic device can determine whether to output notification with reference to at least one executing application and when it is determined that the first electronic device does not output notification the first electronic device can determine the second electronic device as an electronic device to output notification and transmit output information of detected notification to the determined second electronic device . When the second electronic device does not check an output result of notification information according to output information of notification transmitted to the second electronic device the first electronic device can check importance level information about an event to provide notification that has occurred at a database and when operation is not designated to output notification in real time the first electronic device can retransmit notification information to the second electronic device or can transmit notification information to another electronic device.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect message data reception while executing a navigation application. The first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is set to output notification of message data reception while executing a navigation application with reference to a database of an executing navigation application or a database for processing an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device . When the first electronic device is set not to display notification of message reception that has occurred while executing a navigation application the first electronic device can control another electronic device to output information about message reception that has occurred. The first electronic device can check at least one another electronic device that can connect through the communication interface . The first electronic device can receive the status information from at least one connected another electronic device and select at least one another electronic device to transmit notification information with reference to the status information. According to another embodiment when the first electronic device does not check whether the second electronic device outputs notification of message data having transmitted to the second electronic device or when it is determined that the second electronic device does not output notification about message data the first electronic device can retransmit notification about message data to the second electronic device and transmit notification information to another electronic device so that another electronic device connected to the first electronic device outputs notification.

According to another embodiment when the first electronic device outputs information about message data reception determined as a priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence lower than that of a navigation application and that has occurred while executing an application having high real time dependence such as a navigation application if a connected another electronic device that can output notification information instead of the first electronic device is not checked the first electronic device can hold the operation of outputting notification of received message data. When the first electronic device checks and connects at least one another electronic device that can connect for example the second electronic device while operating a navigation application or when the first electronic device checks that the first electronic device is connected to the second electronic device the first electronic device can transmit holding notification information about message data reception to the second electronic device .

Further according to an embodiment when outputting information about message data reception determined as having a lower priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence than that of a navigation application and that has occurred while executing an application having a high priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence such as a navigation application if a connected another electronic device that can output notification information instead of the first electronic device is not checked or if it is not checked that transmitted notification information about message data reception is output the first electronic device can control to terminate the navigation application and control the first electronic device to output notification information about message data reception.

According to various embodiments when the first electronic device outputs information about a calling request determined as having a higher priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence than that of a navigation application and that has occurred while executing an application having high real time dependence such as a navigation application if a connected another electronic device that can output notification information instead of the first electronic device is not checked or if it is not checked that transmitted notification information about message data reception is output the first electronic device can control the first electronic device to output notification information about message data reception.

The foregoing various embodiments can be performed according to information set or stored at a database stored at the first electronic device and or a database of each application or control information set at a control module that controls an output of the notification.

Referring to while executing at least one operation e.g. application the first electronic device can detect that an event to provide notification has occurred. The first electronic device can determine whether to output notification with reference to at least one operation being performed and when it is determined that the first electronic device does not output notification the first electronic device can determine the second electronic device as an electronic device to output notification and the first electronic device can transmit output information of the detected notification to the determined second electronic device .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph while performing a large capacity data processing such as an on line system updating operation. The first electronic device can determine whether the first electronic device is set to output notification of calling request reception while performing an on line system updating operation with reference to a database for processing an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device . When the first electronic device is set not to display notification of a calling request that has occurred while an on line system updating operation the first electronic device can control another electronic device to output information about a calling request that has occurred. The first electronic device can determine the second electronic device having a few data load in at least one connected another electronic device to output information about a calling request that has occurred in the first electronic device and transmit notification information about a calling request to the second electronic device . The first electronic device can enable the first electronic device to perform operations such as a sound or a vibration together with the operation of transmitting notification information about a calling request to the second electronic device enable the display of the first electronic device to output information about notification information transmission and to perform a combined operation of at least two operations of a sound a vibration and the operation of outputting to the display.

Referring to for example the electronic device can be represented with a first electronic device and the electronic device can be represented with a second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device can be represented with a smart phone and the second electronic device can be represented with a wearable smart watch.

Referring to when the first electronic device detects an event to provide notification the first electronic device can acquire the status information of the first electronic device and the status information of the connected second electronic device and determine at least one electronic device that outputs information about an event to provide notification that has occurred in the first electronic device according to a state of the first electronic device and the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph which is an event to provide notification and acquire the status information of the first electronic device . The first electronic device can receive a calling request from Joseph through the CP and determine or check that the AP is in a sleep mode status. The first electronic device can determine not to output notification of a calling request that has occurred when the AP is in a sleep mode but determine the second electronic device to output notification. The first electronic device can acquire the status information from the connected second electronic device . The first electronic device can check that the second electronic device is in a wearing status from the acquired status information of the second electronic device and transmit notification information about a calling request to the second electronic device so that the wearing second electronic device outputs information about a calling request that has occurred in the first electronic device . Further the first electronic device or the second electronic device can determine a distance between the first electronic device and the second electronic device through at least one device that can determine a proximity status such as a proximity detection sensor or a communication module e.g. an NFC module a Wifi module and a Bluetooth BT module . When it is determined that the second electronic device is located within a designated distance from the first electronic device the first electronic device can determine so that the second electronic device outputs notification. According to an embodiment when the first electronic device receives a calling request according to information stored at a database the first electronic device can check a status of the AP. When the AP of the first electronic device is in a sleep mode the first electronic device can acquire the status information about at least one connected another electronic device. When it is determined or checked that the wearable second electronic device is in a wearing status through the acquired status information and in a state tagged with the first electronic device a state in which the first electronic device and the second electronic device are located within a designated distance range through an NFC communication module the first electronic device can determine the second electronic device to output notification of the received calling request and transmit notification information about a calling request to the second electronic device .

According to another embodiment when the first electronic device receives message data while performing an audio dedicated communication operation the first electronic device can determine another electronic device to output notification information about message information in which the first electronic device receives according to information stored at a database. The first electronic device can acquire the status information about at least one connected another electronic device. The first electronic device can detect that the wearable second electronic device is in a wearable status through the acquired status information and detect Bluetooth communication signal intensity of the first electronic device in the second electronic device through Bluetooth communication and when Bluetooth communication signal intensity is in a designated range when a distance range between the first electronic device and the second electronic device determined as communication signal intensity is within a designated distance range the first electronic device can determine the second electronic device to output notification of the received message data and transmit notification information about message data to the second electronic device .

Referring to when the first electronic device receives a calling request in a standby mode status or while performing operations such as Internet surfing in which a priority e.g. a priority determined based on real time dependence is not high the first electronic device can determine the first electronic device to output notification of a calling request with reference to information stored at for example a database. Connected another electronic device can be a second electronic device and the second electronic device can receive the status information. The first electronic device can check that the wearable second electronic device is not in a wearing status and or is in a sleep mode status through the status information of the second electronic device . When the connected second electronic device is not in a wearing status and or operates in a sleep mode status the first electronic device may not process the second electronic device to output notification information about a calling request in which the first electronic device receives but process the first electronic device to output notification information.

Referring to when the electronic device detects occurrence of an event to provide notification when determining whether the electronic device is to output corresponding notification the electronic device can determine the electronic device to output notification through information that is set at for example a database stored at the electronic device or a database of an application performing in the electronic device at a time point in which an event to provide notification has occurred. When determining whether to display notification of the operation that has occurred the electronic device can refer to the status information of the electronic device .

Referring to for example when the electronic device detects an event to provide notification in the electronic device in a method of determining whether the electronic device is to output corresponding notification the electronic device can refer to at least one information of a state a location and or a motion of the electronic device determined through information measured through at least one sensor in which the electronic device includes.

According to an embodiment the electronic device can acquire information about a coordinate two dimension or three dimension that determines a motion of the electronic device in which the electronic device locates through a gyro sensor at a time point that detects an event to provide notification and when the acquired coordinate is included in a range of a motion that determines the electronic device to output notification stored at a database of the electronic device the electronic device can output notification.

According to another embodiment the electronic device can acquire information about a space coordinate e.g. a GPS coordinate at which the electronic device locates at a time point that detects an event to provide notification through a GPS functionally connected to the electronic device and when information about the acquired coordinate is included in a range of a coordinate that determines the electronic device to output notification stored at a database of the electronic device the electronic device can output notification.

According to another embodiment the electronic device can acquire information about a speed in which the electronic device moves at a time point that detects an event to provide notification through an acceleration sensor and when information about the acquired speed is included in a range of a speed that determines the electronic device to output notification stored at a database of the electronic device the electronic device can output notification.

Referring to when the electronic device detects an event to provide notification in a state of performing at least one function in a method of determining whether the electronic device is to output corresponding notification the electronic device can refer to at least one information of a state a location and or a motion of the electronic device determined through information measured through at least one sensor in which the electronic device includes.

According to an embodiment the electronic device can detect occurrence of an event to provide notification while controlling a document displayed in the display of the electronic device through a pupil detection sensor e.g. an image sensor . When the electronic device detects a pupil through a pupil detection sensor the electronic device determines that the user controls the electronic device and the electronic device can display notification of an event that has occurred in the electronic device through the electronic device .

The electronic device can compare information acquired by at least one sensor of various sensors in which the electronic device includes and information stored at a database and determine whether the electronic device or at least one another electronic device is to output notification of an event to provide notification that has occurred in the electronic device without limiting to the foregoing embodiment. Further the foregoing various embodiments can be performed according to information set or stored at a database stored at the electronic device and or a database of each application or control information set at a control module that controls an output of the notification.

Referring to for example the electronic device can be represented with a first electronic device and the electronic device can be represented with a second electronic device . According to an embodiment the first electronic device can be represented with a smart phone and the second electronic device can be represented with a wearable smart watch.

When the first electronic device detects that an event to provide notification occurs the first electronic device can process the first electronic device or at least one another electronic device to output notification information about an event that has occurred. The first electronic device can process the first electronic device or the second electronic device to output notification about an event that has occurred and acquire information about an event notification output from the second electronic device . The first electronic device can determine whether an event that has occurred in the first electronic device has been checked through information about an event notification output received in the second electronic device . The first electronic device can synchronize information on whether an event that has occurred has been checked with recorded information of an event occurred at the first electronic device or a database of an application connected to an event. When it is determined that an event that has occurred is not check in the first electronic device or at least one another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device that transmits notification information so as to output notification about an event the first electronic device can output or re output notification about a corresponding event or can transmit notification information about an event to the second electronic device so that the connected second electronic device outputs or re outputs.

According to an embodiment in order to enable the second electronic device to display notification information about a received character 01 and character 03 the first electronic device can transmit notification information about the character 01 and notification information about the character 03 to the second electronic device . The first electronic device can store information about the character 01 and the character 03 transmitted to the second electronic device notification information transmitted to the second electronic device and information and information about notification check about a state in which the character 01 and the character 03 are not checked at a database of the first electronic device and or a database of a character application connected to character 01 data character 03 data.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can check whether the first electronic device has been transmitted notification information e.g. the character 01 and the character 03 to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device . When the first electronic device does not transmit notification information the first electronic device can determine whether the user of the first electronic device checks notification information. If the user of the first electronic device does not check notification information the first electronic device can designate the notification information as non transmission notification at the database of the first electronic device or a character application database . Additionally or alternatively the first electronic device can transmit notification information designated as non transmission notification to another electronic device e.g. the second electronic device .

For example when the first electronic device does not transmit a character 01 and a character 02 to the second electronic device the first electronic device can check that the user of the first electronic device does not check the character 01 and the character 02 based on information on whether the character 01 and the character 02 are checked. In this case the first electronic device can transmit the character 01 and the character 02 to the second electronic device communicating with the first electronic device .

The second electronic device can output notification information about the character 01 in which the first electronic device receives and notification information about the character 03 and store information on whether the character 01 has been checked and information on whether the character 03 has been checked at a database of the second electronic device and or a database not shown of a character application of the second electronic device . The second electronic device can transmit information of the database in which information on whether the character 01 has been checked and information on whether the character 03 has been checked is stored to the first electronic device . When the second electronic device is not connected to the first electronic device through the communication interface the second electronic device can hold transmission of the information of the database on whether the character 01 has been checked and the information on whether the character 03 has been checked and at a time point at which the second electronic device is connected to the first electronic device the second electronic device can transmit the information of the database on whether the character 01 has been checked and the information on whether the character 03 has been checked to the first electronic device . Alternatively the second electronic device can include and transmit the information on whether the character 01 has been checked and the information on whether the character 03 has been checked in the status information transmitting to the first electronic device .

The first electronic device can combine the information on whether the character 01 has been checked and the information on whether the character 03 has been checked received from the second electronic device to the database of the first electronic device and update the information on whether the character 01 has been checked and the information on whether the character 03 has been checked at a database of a character application connected to the character 01 and the character 03 .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can update information in which the character 01 transmitted to the second electronic device has been checked by the user of the second electronic device at the database of the first electronic device . Further the first electronic device can transmit the information to the second electronic device and the second electronic device can update the information at the database of the second electronic device .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device can detect information about an event that is not checked with reference to the database and a database or in which each application includes. When the first electronic device checks information about the character 03 of the database of the first electronic device can determine that the character 03 has been output from the second electronic device and that the character 03 is in a state that is not checked. Additionally or alternatively according to an embodiment the first electronic device can output notification about the character 03 with reference to the database or the status information received in the second electronic device . When the character 03 has been checked in the first electronic device by the user of the first electronic device the first electronic device can update information in which the character 03 has been checked by the user of the first electronic device at the database of the first electronic device . Further in order to update the information at the database of the second electronic device the first electronic device can transmit the information to the second electronic device .

According to a embodiment in order to enable the second electronic device to output the character 03 the first electronic device can retransmit notification information about the character 03 to the second electronic device . Further according to an embodiment in order to enable a third electronic device e.g. the third electronic device not shown which is another external device to output the character 03 the first electronic device can transmit notification information about the character 03 to the third electronic device. Alternatively the first electronic device may not retransmit the transmitted notification information about the character 03 to the second electronic device and can await until the second electronic device checks the transmitted notification information. When the first electronic device receives information on whether the character 03 has been checked or when the character 03 is not checked for a designated time or more the first electronic device can update information on whether the character 03 has been checked at the database of the first electronic device and the database of a character application.

According to a embodiment the first electronic device can output notification about a weather 02 event that has occurred and record information about a check status checked in the first electronic device at the database together with information about weather 02 and update the information at a database of a weather application. Alternatively according to an embodiment notification e.g. weather 02 checked in the first electronic device can be deleted from the database or the database of a weather application. The first electronic device can determine an event that has been output one time or more but that was not checked according to the database or a database of each application and process to re output the event that was not checked.

According to various embodiments the electronic device e.g. the electronic device that provides notification can include a determining module e.g. a determining module for determining notification information an acquiring module e.g. an acquiring module for acquiring the status information about at least one of the electronic device or at least one of external device communicating with the electronic device and a providing module e.g. a providing module for providing the notification information through at least one of the electronic device or the at least one of external device based on the status information.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can acquire information corresponding to designated information based on an attribute of the notification information as the status information.

According to various embodiments the providing module can provide the notification information through a device in which the user presently uses based on the status information about the user of the electronic device acquired as the status information.

According to various embodiments when an application executing in the electronic device has a priority higher than that of the notification information the providing module can transmit the notification information to the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the determining module can determine information in which the user of the electronic device is not checked through the electronic device as the notification information.

According to various embodiments the determining module can determine information in which the electronic device does not transmit to the at least one external device as the notification information.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can acquire the notification information having a first priority and information about an application having a second priority executing in the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the providing module can provide the notification information through the electronic device based on that the first priority is higher than the second priority and can provide the notification information through the at least one external device based on that the first priority is lower than the second priority.

According to various embodiments the providing module can provide the notification information through an enabled device of the electronic device and the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the providing module can provide the notification information through a device that acquires user information corresponding to information set to be related to the user of the electronic device. For example when the electronic device acquires the user s touch input and when the at least one external device does not acquire the user s touch input the providing module can provide the notification information through the electronic device.

According to various embodiments when power source information or load information acquired as the status information corresponds to a range designated to the electronic device the providing module can provide the notification information through a device corresponding to the status information.

According to various embodiments when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a first location the providing module can provide the notification information through the electronic device and when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a second location the providing module can provide the notification information through the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments when time information acquired as the status information is a first time the providing module can provide the notification information through the electronic device and when time information acquired as the status information is a second time the providing module can provide the notification information through the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments when communication information or distance information between the electronic device and the at least one external device belongs to a range designated to the electronic device the providing module can transmit the notification information to the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes a first processor for processing an application and a second processor for controlling communication with the electronic device and when the first processor executes the application the providing module can transmit the notification information to the at least one external device through the second processor.

According to various embodiments the electronic device can acquire check information on whether the user of the electronic device and the at least one external device checks the notification information or transmitting information on whether the electronic device has transmitted the notification information to the at least one external device and store the check information or the transmitting information at a database functionally connected to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments when the check information or the transmitting information is changed the electronic device can update the database.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can be set to acquire at least one of wearing information sight line information gesture information and authentication information of the user of at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device as the status information.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can control to acquire the status information about whether at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device is using.

According to various embodiments the determining module can control to determine notification information based on whether the user check input is acquired among at least one notification information related to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can acquire user input information acquired in the electronic device as the status information and the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one of the electronic device or at least one external electronic device based on user input information.

According to various embodiments when the electronic device acquires user input information the providing module provides notification information through the electronic device and when the electronic device does not acquire user input information the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one external device. According to various embodiments the acquiring module can be set to include sensor information detected by a sensor functionally connected to at least one of the electronic device or at least external device in user input information or the status information.

According to various embodiments the providing module can provide the notification information through an enabled device of the electronic device and the at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can be set to acquire enabling the status information of a display functionally connected to each of the electronic device and at least one external device as the status information.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module acquires enabling the status information of the electronic device as the status information and the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one of the electronic device or at least one external electronic device based on the enabling status information. According to various embodiments when the electronic device is in an enabling status the providing module can control to provide notification information through the electronic device and when the electronic device is in a disabling status the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module acquires attribute information of an application executing in the electronic device as the status information and the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one of the electronic device or at least one external electronic device based on attribute information of an application.

According to various embodiments the determining module the acquiring module and the providing module are connected to a first processor that processes transmission and reception of information the determining module determines notification information through the first processor the acquiring module determines whether a second processor that controls operations of the electronic device through the first processor is in a state that can provide notification information and the providing module can control to transmit notification information to a second electronic device through the first processor if a second processor is not in a state that can provide notification information.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes a first processor and a second processor and when the first processor determines notification information and the second processor executes an application the providing module can control at least one external device to provide notification information through the first processor based on an attribute of the application.

According to various embodiments the providing module can control to provide notification information through at least one of methods of outputting with a sound designated in the electronic device or at least one external device electronic device displaying in at least one display unit or vibrating the electronic device or at least one external device with a designated method.

According to various embodiments when providing notification information with at least one external device the acquiring module receives feedback information from at least one external device having provided notification information and the providing module can determine that notification information provided from at least one external device is not checked through the feedback information and provide notification information to retransmit the notification information to at least one external device. According to various embodiments the acquiring module can control to acquire feedback information that records whether notification information provided to at least one external electronic device has been checked.

According to various embodiments the determining module can determine that provided notification is not checked and the providing module can control to provide again notification information.

According to various embodiments the determining module can determine that provided notification is not checked the acquiring module can acquire the status information of at least one external device and the providing module can control the external device to provide notification information or to transmit notification information to at least one external device according to whether notification information determined as the status information can be provided.

According to various embodiments the acquiring module can control to include at least one of enabling information of the electronic device or at least one external device performing operation information importance level information of a performing operation battery residual quantity information communication state information with a connected device at least one acquired sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information on whether provided notification has been checked in the status information. According to various embodiments the acquiring module can control to include distance information between an electronic device and at least one external electronic device acquired with at least one connected communication method in communication state information.

According to another embodiment the electronic device can be an application for performing operation of determining notification information operation of acquiring the status information related to at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device and operation of controlling to provide notification information through at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device based on the status information or a computer readable recording medium on which the application is recorded.

According to another embodiment the first electronic device includes a touch screen that outputs notification information a memory that stores the notification information in the first electronic device and a notification processing module that processes the notification information and at least one processor that executes the notification processing module and the notification processing module can control to detect notification occurrence and to acquire the first status information on the first electronic device and control to output the notification or to transmit the notification information to the second electronic device according to whether notification determined as the first status information is output.

According to various embodiments at step of transmitting notification information the notification processing module receives the second status information of the connected second electronic device and when the received the second status information represents a state that can output the notification processing module can control to transmit notification information to the second electronic device. According to various embodiments at step of transmitting notification information the notification processing module can control the notification information to process an output of the notification of the second electronic device.

According to various embodiments at step of transmitting notification information the notification processing module receives each state information from the second electronic device and a third electronic device connected to the electronic device and when the received state information of each of the second electronic device and the third electronic device represents a state that can output the notification processing module can control to transmit the notification information to the second electronic device and or the third electronic device.

According to various embodiments when transmitting the notification information to the second electronic device the notification processing module can control to receive feedback information from the second electronic device to determine that the notification information in which the second electronic device outputs is not checked through the feedback information and to retransmit the notification information to the second electronic device. According to various embodiments after the notification processing module outputs the notification information from the second electronic device the notification processing module can control to determine information that records whether the output notification information has been checked as the feedback information. According to various embodiments the notification processing module can control the second electronic device to determine whether the notification information has been checked with operation of controlling at least one application connected to the notification information.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can control the second electronic device to determine whether the notification information has been checked with a load of the notification information.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can control to determine notification of at least one of a received calling request a received message and notification of an alarm operation as the notification.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can determine that the output notification is not checked when outputting the notification and control to re output the notification.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can control to determine that the output notification is not checked when outputting the notification to acquire the second status information of the electronic device and to re output the notification or to retransmit the notification information to the second electronic device according to whether notification determined as the second status information can be output.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can control to include at least one of enabling information performing operation information importance level information of the performing operation and battery residual quantity information of the first electronic device communication state information with the second electronic device at least one acquired sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information on whether output notification has been checked as the status information of the first electronic device and can control to include at least one of enabling information performing operation information importance level information of the performing operation and battery residual quantity information of the second electronic device communication state information with the first electronic device at least one acquired sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information on whether output notification has been checked as the status information of the second electronic device.

According to various embodiments the notification processing module can detect at least one of information that detects a pupil of the user and information that detects a touch and control to determine the detected information as sensing information. According to various embodiments the notification processing module can further include distance information between the first electronic device and the second electronic device acquired with at least one communication method and control to determine the first status information or the second status information.

According to another embodiment an electronic device can include a touch screen that outputs notification information a memory that stores the notification information in the electronic device a notification processing module that processes the notification information and at least one processor that executes the notification processing module and in the notification processing module a first processor that processes transmission and reception of information receives notification information and the first processor determines whether a second processor that controls operation of the electronic device is in a state that can control an output of the notification information and when the second processor is not in a state that can control an output of the notification information the first processor can control to transmit the notification information to the second electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device can detect an event to provide notification acquire the status information of the electronic device and another electronic device and determine at least one electronic device to output notification information through a database of the electronic device and the acquired status information and an output notification or a transmit notification information to the determined electronic device.

The electronic device can detect that an event to provide notification occurs such as an alarm function necessary to notify to the user and a phone connection and message data received through the communication interface . The electronic device can detect an event to provide notification in a sleep mode the status and detect an event to provide notification in a state in which at least one operation or function is performing.

The electronic device can acquire the status information about the electronic device or at least one connected another electronic device . The status information that the electronic device or at least one another electronic device acquires can include at least one of information on whether the electronic device is in an enabling status or a disabling status can be determined by whether the AP or the CP is in an enabling status a performing operation or function when the electronic device is in an enabling status the status information of the user and or each device information measured through at least one sensor in which the electronic device includes among sensors such as a touch sensor a grip sensor a motion sensor e.g. an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor an image sensor a proximity detection sensor a microphone and a living body detection sensor a fingerprint detection sensor a vein detection sensor and a temperature sensor information about a communication state with at least one another electronic device connected to the electronic device or at least one communication method that can be connected to another electronic device distance information between two devices checked through signal strength of a communication method in which the electronic device and the another electronic device are connected information about a priority of an application and or a function that can operate in the electronic device and information on whether output notification has been checked.

The electronic device can determine at least one electronic device to output notification about an event that has occurred through the acquired status information and information stored at a database .

According to an embodiment when the electronic device detects that an event to provide notification occurs in a sleep mode status the electronic device can determine another electronic device to output notification according to information stored at a database and the acquired status information. According to an embodiment when the electronic device is in an enabling status the electronic device can determine a priority of a performing function and an event to provide notification with reference to a database and when it is determined that a priority of a function performing in the electronic device is high the electronic device can determine another electronic device to output notification through information stored at a database and the acquired status information. According to another embodiment when it is determined that a wearable device or an electronic device connected to the electronic device is in a wearing status or when it is determined that a wearing device is located within a designated distance from the electronic device the electronic device can determine the wearable device in which the user is wearing to output notification about an event to provide notification that has occurred in the electronic device .

The electronic device detects an event to provide notification and when it is determined that the first electronic device outputs notification information the electronic device can output corresponding notification . According to an embodiment when it is determined that the electronic device outputs received message data the electronic device can output the received message data with a method of generally outputting a received message. When the electronic device outputs message data and checks a corresponding message the electronic device can store information about check at a database or a database of a message character application connected to message data.

According to another embodiment the electronic device detects an event to provide notification and when it is determined that another electronic device connected to the first electronic device outputs notification information the electronic device can transmit output information of corresponding notification to the determined another electronic device. According to an embodiment when the electronic device receives an e mail while reproducing media data the electronic device can determine another electronic device to output notification about e mail reception through a database and the acquired status information. The electronic device can transmit information that processes to output notification about e mail reception to the determined another electronic device. The electronic device can receive information about whether an e mail corresponding to notification output from another electronic device having transmitted notification information has been checked.

Referring to the electronic device can detect an event to provide notification and control notification information so that the electronic device or an external electronic device outputs notification. Here the external electronic device can be the above described another electronic device e.g. an electronic device an electronic device or a server and can be represented with the above described various methods of an external device the second electronic device and the third electronic device .

The electronic device can detect that an event to provide notification occurs in operation . Here an event to provide notification can be a receiving operation through the communication interface such as phone connection and message data in the electronic device and can be operation necessary to notify to the user such as an alarm function.

The electronic device can determine whether the electronic device is in an enable state in operation . According to an embodiment the electronic device can include at least one processor and the processor can include an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The AP or the CP can be independently formed as each processor and be included in one processor. The AP can be a processor that controls operation of an application of the electronic device or at least one partial device constituting the electronic device and the CP can be a processor that transmits and receives information to and from an external electronic device through short range wireless communication or communication using the network . When the AP is in an enabling status the electronic device can perform operation and when the AP is in a disabling status the electronic device can perform operation .

The AP can be in an enabling status and the electronic device can determine whether the electronic device satisfies a condition that can output notification through the AP in operation . According to an embodiment when the electronic device performs at least one application and function the electronic device can detect occurrence of an event to provide notification. The electronic device can determine whether to process the electronic device or an external electronic device to output notification of operation that has occurred through a priority and or importance level information between a performing application or function and an event to provide notification through information of a database and status information. When it is determined that the electronic device outputs notification of operation that has occurred the electronic device can perform operation and when it is determined that the external electronic device outputs notification of operation that has occurred the electronic device can perform operation .

The electronic device can acquire status information of at least one external electronic device from at least one connected external electronic device. The electronic device can determine whether an external electronic device is in a state that can output information about notification that has occurred through information of a database and the acquired status information in operation . According to an embodiment it can be determined whether the electronic device can output information about notification that has occurred in the electronic device through at least one of information such as information on whether the external electronic device is wearing when the external electronic device is a wearable electronic device a priority and or importance level information between operations that output information about notification that has occurred when there is an application or a function in which the external electronic device is performing and a distance measured between the electronic device and the external electronic device. When an external electronic device can output information about notification that has occurred in the electronic device the electronic device can perform operation and when the external electronic device may not output information about notification that has occurred in the electronic device the electronic device can perform operation .

The electronic device can transmit notification information to the external electronic device determined to output information about notification that has occurred in operation . The external electronic device can output notification or notification information according to received notification information. The external electronic device can store information about whether the external electronic device has checked output notification and transmit the information to the electronic device .

When the electronic device performs operation an embodiment of can be terminated. The electronic device can output information about notification that has occurred . The electronic device can store information about whether the electronic device has checked output notification and when a history that checks information corresponding to output notification is not detected in the electronic device or connected another electronic device the electronic device can re output output notification or can transmit or retransmit output notification to another electronic device.

According to various embodiments a method of operating an electronic device can include operation of determining notification information the operation of acquiring the status information related to at least one of the electronic device or at least one external device communicating with the electronic device and operation of controlling to provide the notification information through at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device based on the status information.

According to various embodiments the operation of determining can include operation in which the user of the electronic device determines information that is not checked through the electronic device as the notification information.

According to various embodiments the operation of determining can include operation of determining information that is not transmit from the electronic device to the at least one external device as the notification information.

According to various embodiments the operation of acquiring can include operation of acquiring the notification information having a first priority and information about an application having a second priority executing in the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through the electronic device based on that the first priority is higher than the second priority and providing the notification information through the at least one external device based on that the first priority is lower than the second priority.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through a device that acquires user information corresponding to information set to be related to the user of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through a device corresponding to the status information when power source information or load information acquired as the status information corresponds to a range designated to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through the electronic device when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a first location and providing the notification information through the at least one external device when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a second location.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through the electronic device when time information acquired as the status information is a first time and providing the notification information through the at least one external device when time information acquired as the status information is a second time.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of transmitting the notification information to the at least one external device when communication information or distance information between the electronic device and the at least one external device belongs to a range designated to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the electronic device can acquire check information on whether the user of the electronic device and the at least one external device has checked the notification information or transmitting information on whether the electronic device has transmitted the notification information to the at least one external device and the check information or the transmitting information can be stored at a database functionally connected to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of storing can include updating the database when the check information or the transmitting information is changed.

According to various embodiments the status information can include information on whether at least one of an electronic device or at least one external device is using.

According to various embodiments the operation of determining can include operation of determining notification information based on whether a user check input has been acquired among at least one notification information related to the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of determining can include operation of acquiring user check information of each of at least one notification information from at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the status information can include at least one information of power information and load information of at least one of an electronic device or at least one external device status information of the user and information designated at the electronic device.

According to various embodiments the status information can include user input information acquired in the electronic device and operation of controlling can include operation of controlling to provide notification information through at least one device of an electronic device or at least one external electronic device based on user input information. According to various embodiments user input information can include information detected by a sensor functionally connected to at least one of an electronic device or at least one external device.

According to various embodiments the operation of controlling can include operation of controlling to provide notification information through the electronic device when the electronic device acquires user input information and to provide notification information through at least one external device when the electronic device does not acquire user input information.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can include operation of providing the notification information through an enabled device of the electronic device and the at least one external device. According to various embodiments the operation of controlling can include operation of controlling to provide notification information through the electronic device when the electronic device is in an enabling status and to provide notification information through at least one external device when the electronic device is in a disabling status.

According to various embodiments the status information can include attribute information of an application performing in the electronic device and operation of controlling can include operation of controlling to provide notification information through at least one device of an electronic device or at least one external electronic device based on attribute information of an application.

According to various embodiments the electronic device can include a first processor for processing an application and a second processor for controlling communication of the electronic device and operation of providing can include operation of transmitting the notification information to the at least one external device through the second processor when the first processor executes the application.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing can use at least one of methods of outputting with a sound designated in an electronic device or at least one external device displaying with an image and or a text in at least one display unit and vibrating an electronic device or at least one external device with a designating method.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes a first processor and a second processor and operation of determining can include operation of determining notification information in the first processor and operation of executing an application in the second processor.

According to various embodiments the operation of controlling can include operation of controlling at least one external device to provide notification information through the first processor based on an attribute of an application.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing notification information to at least one external device can further include operation of receiving feedback information from at least one external device that provides notification information operation of determining notification information provided in at least one external device as information that is not checked through feedback information and operation of retransmitting notification information to at least one external device. According to various embodiments feedback information can be information that records whether provided notification information has been checked after at least one external electronic device provides notification information.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing notification information can further include operation of determining that provided notification is not checked and operation of providing again notification information.

According to various embodiments the operation of providing notification can further include operation of determining that notification is not checked the operation of acquiring the status information of at least one external device and operation in which the electronic device provides notification information or operation of transmitting notification information to at least one external device according to whether notification information determined as the status information can be provided.

According to various embodiments the status information can include at least one of enabling information of the electronic device or at least one external device performing operation information importance level information of a performing operation battery residual quantity information communication state information with a connected device acquired at least one sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information about whether provided notification has been checked. According to various embodiments communication state information can further include distance information between an electronic device and at least one external device acquired with at least one connected communication method.

According to various embodiments the status information can include at least one information of distance information or communication information between the electronic device and at least one external device.

According to another embodiment a method of operating a first electronic device can include step of detecting notification occurrence step of acquiring the first status information of the first electronic device and the step of outputting the notification or transmitting the notification information to a second electronic device according to whether notification determined as the first status information is output.

According to various embodiments the step of transmitting the notification information can include the step of receiving the second status information of the connected second electronic device and step of transmitting the notification information to the second electronic device when the received second status information represents a state that can be output. According to various embodiments the step of transmitting the notification information can include control information that processes an output of the notification of the second electronic device in the notification information.

According to various embodiments the step of transmitting the notification information can include the step of receiving the status information of each thereof from the second electronic device and a third electronic device connected to the electronic device and step of transmitting the notification information to the second electronic device and or the third electronic device when the received the status information of each of the second electronic device and third electronic device represents a state that can output.

According to various embodiments the step of transmitting the notification information to the second electronic device can further include step of receiving feedback information from the second electronic device the step of determining that the notification information in which the electronic device outputs is not checked through the feedback information and the step of retransmitting the notification information to the second electronic device. According to various embodiments the feedback information can be information that records whether the output notification information has been checked after the second electronic device outputs the notification information. According to various embodiments whether the notification information has been checked can be determined with operation in which the second electronic device controls at least one application connected to the notification information. According to various embodiments the notification can be determined as notification of at least one of a received calling request a received message and notification of an alarm operation.

According to various embodiments the step of outputting notification can further include the step of determining that the output notification is not checked and step of re outputting the notification.

According to various embodiments the step of outputting notification can further include step of determining that the output notification is not checked step of acquiring the second the status information of the electronic device and the step of re outputting the notification or retransmitting the notification information to the second electronic device according to whether notification determined as the second the status information can be output.

According to various embodiments the first the status information of the first electronic device can include at least one of enabling information of the first electronic device performing operation information importance level information of the performing operation battery residual quantity information communication state information with a second electronic device at least one acquired sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information on whether output notification has been checked and the second the status information of the second electronic device can include at least one of enabling information of the second electronic device performing operation information importance level information of the performing operation battery residual quantity information communication state information with the first electronic device at least one acquired sensing information information about a priority of an application or a function that can operate and information on whether output notification has been checked. According to various embodiments each sensing information can detect at least one of information that detects the user s pupil and information that detects a touch. According to various embodiments each communication status information can further include distance information between the first electronic device and the second electronic device that acquires with at least one communication method.

According to another embodiment a method of operating an electronic device can include step in which a first processor that processes transmission and reception of information receives notification information step of determining whether a second processor that controls operation of the electronic device is in a state that can output the notification information and step in which the first processor transmits the notification information to a second electronic device when the second processor is not in a state that can control an output of the notification information.

The processor e.g. the processor can include at least one application processor AP or at least one communication processor CP . The processor can be for example the processor of . As shown in the AP and the CP are included within the processor but the AP and the CP can be included within different IC packages respectively. In an embodiment the AP and the CP can be included within one IC package.

The AP can drive an operation system or an applied application to control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP and perform various data processing and calculation including multimedia data. The AP can be embodied for example with a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor can further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The CP can perform a function of managing a data link in communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and another electronic device connected by a network and a function of converting a communication protocol. The CP can be embodied for example with a SoC. According to an embodiment the CP can perform at least a portion of a multimedia control function. The CP can perform identification and authentication of a terminal within a communication network using for example a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . Further the CP can provide services such as audio dedicated communication audiovisual communication a text message or packet data to the user.

Further the CP can control data transmission and reception of the communication module . In elements of the CP the power management module or the memory are elements separate from the AP but according to an embodiment the AP can include at least a portion e.g. the CP of the foregoing elements.

According to an embodiment the AP or the CP can load and process an instruction or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and another element connected to each thereof in a volatile memory. Further the AP or the CP can be received from at least one of other elements or can store data generated by at least one of other elements at a non volatile memory.

The SIM card can be a card that embodies a subscriber identification module and be inserted into a slot formed in a specific location of an electronic device. The SIM card can include intrinsic identification information e.g. integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory can include a built in memory or a removable memory . The memory can be for example the memory of . The built in memory can include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory and a NOR flash memory . According to an embodiment the built in memory can have a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The removable memory can further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick.

The communication module can include a wireless communication module or a radio frequency RF module . The communication module can be for example the communication interface of . The wireless communication module can include for example WiFi Bluetooth BT GPS or near field communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module can provide a wireless communication function using a radio frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module can include a network interface e.g. a LAN card or a modem for connecting the hardware to a network e.g. Internet a local area network LAN a wire area network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a plain old telephone service POTS .

The RF module can perform transmission and reception of data for example transmission and reception of an RF signal or a called electronic signal. Although not shown the RF module can include for example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA . Further the RF module can further include a component for example a conductor or a leading wire for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves on free space in wireless communication.

The sensor module can include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a red green and blue RGB sensor H a living body sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and a ultra violet UV sensor M. The sensor module can measure a physical quantity or detect an operation status of an electronic device and convert measured or detected information to an electric signal. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module can include for example an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography sensor EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram sensor EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram sensor ECG sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module can further include a control circuit that controls at least one sensor belonging to the inside.

The user input module can include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic wave input device . The user input module can be for example the input and output interface of . The touch panel can recognize a touch input with at least one method of for example a capacitive resistive infrared ray or ultrasonic wave method. Further the touch panel can further include a controller not shown . When the touch panel is a capacitive type touch panel the touch panel can perform a direct touch or proximity recognition. The touch panel layer can further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel can provide a haptic reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor can be embodied using the same method as and a method similar to for example reception of a touch input of the user or a separate recognition sheet. As the key for example a keypad or a touch key can be used. The ultrasonic wave input device is a device that can check data by detecting a sound wave with a microphone e.g. a microphone in a terminal through a pen that generates an ultrasonic wave signal and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the hardware can receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected to the communication module using the communication module .

The display module can include a panel or a hologram . The display module can be for example the display module of . The panel can be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel can be embodied with for example a flexible transparent or wearable method. The panel can be formed with one module and the touch panel . The hologram can show a stereoscopic image in the air using interference of light. According to an embodiment the display module can further include a control circuit that controls the panel or the hologram .

The interface can include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D SUB . Additionally or alternatively the interface can include for example secure digital SD multi media card MMC not shown or infrared data association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec can convert a sound and an electronic signal in two ways. The audio codec can convert sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

The camera module is a device that can photograph an image and a moving picture and can include at least one image sensor e.g. a front surface lens or a rear surface lens an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown according to an embodiment.

The power management module can manage power of the hardware . Although not shown the power management module can include for example a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit charge IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC can be mounted within for example an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. A charging method can be classified into a wired method and a wireless method. The charge IC can charge a battery and prevent an overvoltage or an overcurrent from being injected from a charging device. According to an embodiment the charge IC can include a charge IC for at least one of a wired charge method or a wireless charge method. A wireless charge method can include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic wave method and can add an additional circuit for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonant circuit and a rectifier for wireless charge.

The battery gauge can measure for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage a current or a temperature while charging. The battery can generate electricity to supply power and can be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator can display a specific the status for example a booting the status a message the status or a charge the status of the hardware or a portion thereof e.g. the AP . The motor can convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. A main control unit MCU not shown can control the sensor module .

Although not shown the hardware can include a processing device e.g. GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV can process media data according to a specification of for example digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow. Each of the foregoing elements of hardware according to the present invention can be formed with at least one component and a name of corresponding element can be changed according to a kind of an electronic device. Hardware according to the present invention can include at least one of the foregoing elements and can be formed in a form in which some elements are omitted or hardware can further include additional another element. Further some of elements of hardware according to the present invention are coupled to form an entity thereby equally performing a function of corresponding elements before coupling.

According to an embodiment a method of operating the electronic device can include the operation of detecting notification the operation of acquiring communication connection information with another electronic device the operation of acquiring situation information of another electronic device and the operation of transferring notification to another electronic device based on communication connection information or situation information.

According to various embodiments operation of transferring notification can include operation of acquiring situation information of an electronic device and operation of transferring notification based on situation information of an electronic device and situation information of another electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of transferring notification can further include operation of checking an operation the status of an electronic device or another electronic device and operation of transferring notification to another electronic device based on an operation the status.

According to various embodiments the electronic device includes a first processor and a second processor and operation of transferring notification can further include the operation of selecting at least one of a first processor or a second processor based on an operation the status the operation of processing notification in the first processor or the second processor based on the selection and the operation of transferring notification to another electronic device.

According to various embodiments the operation of checking can include the operation of checking an application that provides in an electronic device or another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of checking can include operation of determining a load of data while operating in an electronic device or another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of checking can include operation of checking a power source the status e.g. a battery the status of an electronic device or another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of transferring can include operation of transferring a kind e.g. call text message and alarm of notification.

According to various embodiments the operation of acquiring situation information can include operation of detecting a wearing status of another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of acquiring situation information can include operation of detecting a motion of another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of acquiring situation information can include operation of detecting at least one of the user s pupil or touch in another electronic device. According to various embodiments the operation of acquiring situation information can include operation of acquiring distance information between an electronic device and another electronic device.

In a method and device for providing notification according to various embodiments at least one electronic device of a plurality of electronic devices that can provide notification can be selected notification can be provided through the selected electronic device and thus power consumption can be reduced.

Further in a method and device for providing notification according to various embodiments it can be determined whether the user checks notification and notification in which the user does not check can be provided and thus use convenience can be provided.

A method in an electronic device the method comprising determining notification information acquiring state information of at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device communicating with the electronic device and providing the notification information through at least one of the electronic device and the at least one external device based on the state information.

Wherein the determining of notification information comprises determining by a user of the electronic device information that is not checked through the electronic device as the notification information.

Wherein the determining of notification information comprises determining information that is not transmitted from the electronic device to the at least one external device as the notification information.

Wherein the acquiring of state information comprises acquiring the notification information having a first priority and information about an application having a second priority executing in the electronic device. And the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through the electronic device based on that the first priority is higher than the second priority and providing the notification information through the at least one external device based on that the first priority is lower than the second priority.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through an enabled device of the electronic device and the at least one external device.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through a device that acquires user information corresponding to information set to be related to the user of the electronic device.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through a device corresponding to the state information when power source information or load information acquired as the state information corresponds to a range designated to the electronic device.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through the electronic device when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a first location and providing the notification information through the at least one external device when the electronic device or the at least one external device is located at a second location.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises providing the notification information through the electronic device when time information acquired as the state information is a first time and providing the notification information through the at least one external device when time information acquired as the state information is a second time.

Wherein the providing of the notification information comprises transmitting the notification information to the at least one external device when communication information or distance information between the electronic device and the at least one external device belongs to a range designated to the electronic device.

Wherein the electronic device comprises a first processor that processes an application and a second processor that controls communication of the electronic device and the providing of the notification information comprises transmitting the notification information to the at least one external device through the second processor when the first processor executes the application. And further comprising acquiring check information on whether a user of the electronic device and the at least one external device checks the notification information or transmitting information on whether the electronic device transmits the notification information to the at least one external device and storing the check information or the transmitting information at a database functionally connected to the electronic device. And the storing of the check information comprises updating the database when the check information or the transmitting information is changed.

A term module used for the present invention can indicate a unit including a combination of one or two or more of for example hardware software or firmware. The module can be interchangeably used with a term of for example a unit logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module can become a minimum unit or a portion of an integrally formed component. The module can become a minimum unit or a portion that performs at least one function. The module can be mechanically or electronically embodied. For example a module according to the present invention can include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device that performs some operations that are known or to be developed in the future.

According to various embodiments at least a portion of a device e.g. modules or functions or a method e.g. operations according to the present invention can be embodied with an instruction stored at computer readable storage media in a form of for example a programming module. When the instruction is executed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor can perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media can be for example the memory . At least a portion of the programming module can be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least a portion of the programming module can include for example a module an application a routine and sets of instructions and or a process for performing at least one function.

An electronic device comprising a determining module that determines notification information in the electronic device an acquiring module that acquires state information of at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device that communicates with the electronic device and a providing module that provides the notification information through at least one of the electronic device and the at least one external device based on the state information.

Wherein the acquiring module acquires information corresponding to designated information as the state information based on an attribute of the notification information.

Wherein the providing module provides the notification information through a device in which a user presently uses based on state information of the user of the electronic device acquired as the state information.

Wherein the providing module provides the notification information through an enabled device of the electronic device and the at least one external device.

Wherein the providing module transmits the notification information to the at least one external device when an application executing in the electronic device has a priority higher than that of the notification information.

A computer readable recording medium on which an application or a program for performing operation of determining notification information in an electronic device operation of acquiring state information of at least one of the electronic device and at least one external device that communicates with the electronic device and operation of providing the notification information through at least one of the electronic device and the at least one external device based on the state information is recorded.

A programming module according to the present invention can include at least at least one of the foregoing elements or can further include elements in which some elements are omitted or additional other elements. A programming module according to the present invention or operations performed by another element can be executed with a sequential parallel repetitional or heuristic method. Further some operations can be executed in another order or are omitted or other operations can be added thereto.

The computer readable recording media can include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or a digital versatile disc DVD magnetic optical media such as a floptical disk and a hardware device specially formed to store and perform an application instruction e.g. a programming module such as a read only memory ROM a read access memory RAM and a flash memory. Further the application instruction can include a high level language code that can be executed by a computer using an interpreter as well as a machine language code made by a compiler. The foregoing hardware device can be formed to operate as at least one software module to perform operation of the present invention and vice versa.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

