---

title: Mobile phone as a one-way recorded transmitter over a cellular network
abstract: Agencies oftentimes desire to monitor personnel in the field during the course of their duties. To provide flexible monitoring capabilities to agencies, a common mobile device such as a mobile phone is converted for use as a radio-based listening system to collect and transmit audio data. Phone features and accessories are leveraged to collect additional data for transmission. Collected data is streamed or otherwise transmitted to monitoring devices at the agency or in the field for operational oversight and recordation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313323&OS=09313323&RS=09313323
owner: World Emergency Network—Nevada, Ltd.
number: 09313323
owner_city: Carson City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141110
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 14 086 940 filed on Nov. 21 2013 which is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 482 966 filed on May 29 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 491 823 filed May 31 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 549 657 filed Oct. 20 2011 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 050 filed Jun. 29 2012 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 631 621 filed Sep. 28 2012 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of undercover operations and more specifically to using a mobile phone as an undercover device.

Police officers and other agents operators oftentimes conduct investigations in the field during the course of their duties. In many cases these investigations require direct support and oversight at an administrative level. For example an operator conducting an undercover sting in a high risk situation may have a support team monitoring the operator directly in the field and interfacing with administration at an agency. Traditionally the operator would use a radio based covert listening system that can be hidden e.g. under a shirt or otherwise embedded e.g. in or on an electronic device or object to conceal its nature and protect operators cover. The listening device would then transmit audio data back to the support team which would relay data back to the agency.

However with widespread publicity of listening devices in movies and the like the physical nature of a given device can lead to its discovery or detection which poses additional risks for the operators themselves. Additionally traditional bugs have other inherent deficiencies when used in the field such as requiring line of sight or physical proximity to a base station and the support team. Although some newer bug systems seek to provide sufficient concealability among other desirable features they are oftentimes prohibitively expensive and yet still fail to mitigate the above deficiencies. Furthermore such systems are not rapidly deployable as they typically require support personnel other than immediate backup.

The above and other issues are addressed by a method and computer system for configuring a telephonic device as a one way recorded transmitter mobile bug . An embodiment of the method comprises receiving information in response to a connection request from a telephonic device to a virtual number. The information received includes a transmitting number corresponding to the telephonic device and the virtual number. The telephonic device is identified as the mobile bug in response to matching the transmitting number of the telephonic device with a transmitting number stored in association with the virtual number in a mapping table. With the mobile bug identified the method further includes transmitting instructions for connecting the mobile bug to the virtual number to permit monitoring of the mobile bug. Outgoing audio to the mobile bug is disabled.

An embodiment of the system comprises a server having a one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer program code. When executed the computer program code causes the server to receive information in response to a connection request from a telephonic device to a virtual number. The information received includes a transmitting number corresponding to the telephonic device and the virtual number. The server identifies the telephonic device as the mobile bug in response to matching the transmitting number of the telephonic device with a transmitting number stored in association with the virtual number in a mapping table. With the mobile bug identified the server transmits instructions for connecting the mobile bug to the virtual number with outgoing audio to the mobile bug disabled to permit monitoring of the mobile bug.

The Figures FIG. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments for purposes of illustration only.

Many operators in the field posses a personal mobile phone or are issued a mobile phone by their agency or department. Oftentimes a traditional bug and accompanying support team are unavailable to support an operator in the field or are not appropriate for a given scenario. However the agency may still desire to monitor and or record the operator s activities. Accordingly the agency may coordinate with an agency support service for configuring the operator s mobile phone to fulfill the role of a traditional bug. The configuration can take place over the air such that a given mobile phone is conveniently converted as needed. In some instances the mobile phone requires nothing more than a radio connection and dialer. Additionally if the agency desires to monitor additional operators the agency can specify additional mobile phones for operation as bugs.

Example embodiments described herein relate to configuring a wireless radio network e.g. Cellular Network and or WiFi capable device such as a mobile phone as a one way recorded transmitter or mobile bug for use in the field. As mobile phones and similar devices are commonly carried by operators during the course of undercover investigations mobile phones offer an existing platform for transmitting data wirelessly. Use of such devices as a mobile bug often allows the mobile bug to be concealed in plain sight as a direct result of the devices popularity and utility. Additionally with the popularity of smart phones and feature phones additional monitoring and safety features are integrated into the mobile bug for enhancing operational viability in the field.

Furthermore because a mobile phone configured as a mobile bug communicates information over existing channels created for the phone s intended purpose the mobile bug if examined at worst appears to operate as expected e.g. receives and or transmits wireless data . Accordingly the worst case scenario for an operator is having to turn off the mobile bug rather than having their cover blown. Additionally by turning a mobile phone into a covert transmitting device and using a cellular network as the means of transmission the mobile bug system offers a virtually unlimited range of transmission and the ability to collect a wide range of valuable real time data. Real time data collected by the mobile bug may include audio video or still images Global Positioning System GPS coordinates etc.

The mobile bug subsequently transmits all or a portion of the collected real time data wirelessly over the existing channels e.g. a network back to the agency agency service or another entity. Embodiments of the agency agency service and or other entities within the mobile bug system receive the collected data for storage and or live streaming to monitoring devices. Depending on the embodiment the monitoring devices are further configured to access and present e.g. play and or display a variety of the real time and historical data stored on or streamed by the entities on the network. For example the monitoring devices may access a web interface API or execute a standalone application for viewing mobile bug details and the collected information. In some embodiments the monitoring devices may access portions of the real time data via a provided monitoring line configured for maintaining the operator s cover. Furthermore other agencies with appropriate credentials and monitoring devices may similarly access portions of the collected information during inter agency investigations.

Agency service represents a collection of compute devices e.g. servers and related storage mediums that are used to execute module for performing various activities such as configuring mobile bugs exchanging data over the network and storing data in support of one or more agencies A B and operated mobile bugs . For example the agency service may include one or more modules providing ascribed functionality to an agency via an application programming interface API or web interface collectively the monitoring interface as described in more detail with reference to . The agency service may also include infrastructure for providing audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network within the monitoring interface using the public switched telephone network PSTN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services.

Agency A and B represent collections of servers desktop notebook or tablet computers mobile telephones and related storage mediums used by respective agency personnel for executing applications or modules to communicate with and receive data from the agency service e.g. via the monitoring interface and other entities on the network . For example agency devices may execute a web browser to access a web interface or execute a mobile or desktop application for communicating with an API provided by the agency service . An agency A may also include telephonic and video infrastructure enabling audio and video communicability e.g. internally and or over the network using the public switched telephone network PTSN voice over internet protocol VoIP and video conferencing services for monitoring or specifying configurations for mobile bugs .

The mobile bugs are oftentimes mobile telephonic devices capable of collecting data and transmitting data e.g. wirelessly over the network . Some examples of a mobile bug include a mobile phone tablet or notebook computer. Example embodiments of the mobile bug as a mobile phone include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a mobile bug may not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the mobile bug or mobile bug system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In some embodiments other telephonic devices such as land line phones are used.

In one embodiment the mobile bug executes a bug module for collecting data transmitting data and maintaining a persistent connection with entities on the network . An example embodiment of a bug module is described in more detail with reference to .

In addition to the mobile bugs a number of monitoring devices not shown may connect to entities on the network to obtain or present data collected from one or more of the mobile bugs. Depending on the embodiment a monitoring device is a telephonic device that can be operated within the agency or externally in the field. As referred to herein a monitoring device is a mobile or stationary telephonic device capable of connectivity e.g. wireless or wired to a network such as an agency network the internet PSTN and or cellular network. Some examples of a monitoring device include a mobile phone land line phone tablet and notebook or desktop computer.

Example embodiments of the monitoring device as a mobile phone can include feature phones smart phones or standard mobile phones. Accordingly a given mobile phone or other device operated as a monitoring device does not necessarily include or support all of the functionality ascribed herein to the monitoring device or the mobile bug system due to inherent differences in device capabilities. In one example embodiment the monitoring device executes a monitoring module for interfacing with entities on the network to manage mobile bugs and view collected data.

The network represents the communication pathway between agencies agencies service the mobile bugs monitoring devices and other entities not shown . In one embodiment the network includes standard communications technologies and or protocols and can include the Internet and PSTN. Oftentimes these communications technologies and or protocols carry both PTSN and Internet related data. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 2G 3G 4G mobile communications protocols worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including analog audio e.g. for last mile PSTN communications digital audio and video e.g. as a file or streaming with Real Time Streaming Protocol the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML JavaScript VBScript FLASH the portable document format PDF etc. In addition all or some of the data exchanged over the network can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In another embodiment the entities on the network can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. For example some government agencies and the military may operate networks auxiliary to the internet and PSTN.

As used herein the term module refers to computer program instructions and or other logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules formed of executable computer program instructions are stored on a non transitory storage device loaded into memory and executed by a computer processor as one or more processes.

The telephony network may include servers switches and other hardware and software for implementing among other protocols and technologies worldwide interoperability for PSTN communications including land lines and 2G 3G 4G wireless protocols. The telephony network also provides mobile devices with the capability to transmit and receive data over the internet . The telephony network is managed by one or more communication service providers CSPs not shown that own telephone numbers for use on the PSTN and the CSPs own network e.g. a wireless network that communicates with the PSTN .

The provider may include servers switches and other hardware and software for communicating over the network with CSPs and other entities. The provider buys or leases numbers for use on the telephony network from multiple CSPs. The provider in turn manages numbers provisioned for use by the agency service and the telephony traffic associated with the numbers. In one embodiment the provider allows the agency service to provision one or more of the numbers as virtual numbers over the network .

Typically a number used on the telephony network directs to a given mobile device VoIP device or land line device having an associated number identity characterized by automatic number identification ANI information or caller identification. Virtual numbers while still operable with the PSTN and CSP networks are associated with the provider who handles telephony traffic for the number. Because a virtual number does not direct to an end user device the provider may establish connections with devices dialing the virtual number record call information such as call audio and caller history e.g. on a computer readable medium and stream provide call information for download e.g. over the network .

The provider may also pass bridge audio bidirectional or unidirectional in real time between two or more telephonic devices establishing connections with the same or different virtual numbers or connected with the provider via a virtual number . Additionally as the virtual numbers are handled by the provider the agency service may modify ANI information and caller identification associated with the virtual number.

In addition to provisioning virtual numbers for the agency service the provider communicates notifications and data associated with the virtual numbers to the agency service or other entity such as the agency A. For example the provider may notify the agency service of an incoming caller to the virtual number and receive instructions from the agency service to connect the caller to the virtual number. The provider may also receive instructions to stop start recordings of calls placed to the virtual number and interface with a transcription service to transcribe call audio. In turn the provider can transmit the recordings and transcripts to the agency service or other entity on the network .

Additionally the provider may enable or disable inbound and or outbound audio for different parties connected to the virtual number and recordings thereof responsive to instructions received e.g. via an API from the agency service . The provider can receive instructions for managing a virtual number as part of the provisioning process prior to an incoming call or in real time from the agency service when connecting an incoming caller to the virtual number. In some embodiments the provider communicates directly with the agency A to provision virtual numbers transmit notifications and data or receive instructions. Additionally the provider itself may function as a CSP and vice versa.

The agency service receives requests for provisioning and mapping virtual number from the agency A mobile bug or other monitoring device . The requests can include number information for provisioning virtual numbers such as an area code e.g. 555 country code e.g. 44 and or associated CSP. In turn the agency service queries the provider for available virtual numbers matching the request and returns the matching virtual numbers to the requesting entity. The agency service subsequently receives a selection of virtual numbers from the requesting entity and claims the virtual numbers from the provider . The agency service may optionally allow the entity to specify ANI and or caller identification associated with the virtual number to spoof the number s identity on the network . The agency service in turn transmits instructions to the provider for modifying the number identity. The agency service may optionally verify the spoofed number identity. When a virtual number is no longer needed by the agency A the agency service obtains any audio recordings or call logs associated with the virtual number and releases the number back to the provider .

The requests can also include mapping information for configuring claimed virtual number function in a mapping table. Depending on the desired configuration the mapping information may include the transmitting number of a mobile bug and or and monitoring device virtual number for association with the device and or desired function of the virtual number e.g. monitoring number or receiving number . One example mapping request may specify a claimed virtual number for use as a virtual receiving number receiving number that mobile bugs connect to in order to transmit collected data e.g. audio over the telephony network. In one embodiment the request includes the transmitting number of the mobile bug and a given claimed virtual number for configuration as the receiving number. In response to the request the agency service associates the transmitting number of the mobile bug with the receiving number and stores the association in a mapping table.

Another example mapping request may specify a claimed virtual number for use as a virtual monitoring number monitoring number that monitoring devices connect to in order to monitor a receiving number e.g. listen to audio a mobile bug transmits to the receiving number . In one embodiment the request includes a given claimed virtual number e.g. the monitoring number and the receiving number. In response to the request the agency service associates the receiving number with the monitoring number and stores the association in a mapping table.

In some embodiments a mapping request may optionally include the transmitting number of a monitoring device which the agency service associates with a receiving number or monitoring number to identify the monitoring device. As multiple monitoring devices A B C may monitor a mobile bug the agency service may store multiple transmitting numbers of monitoring devices in association with a receiving number or monitoring number in a mapping table.

In practice agency service consults the mapping table to automatically identify a device connecting to a virtual number e.g. the receiving number as either the mobile bug or a monitoring device based on the device s transmitting number. Thus for example an operator of a mobile bug may simply dial the receiving number mapped to the transmitting number of his phone to activate the mobile bug.

Personnel with a monitoring device that desire to monitor the mobile bug with a mobile or land line phone at the agency A or in the field can also dial the receiving number. However as the agency does not identify the transmitting number of the device that of the mobile bug personnel devices are appropriately identified as monitoring devices . In some embodiments the agency service identifies connecting monitoring device based on a mapping of monitoring devices transmitting numbers to the receiving number.

Additionally embodiments of the agency service can use the mapping of monitoring devices to the receiving number for instructing the provider to automatically dial e.g. from a specified monitoring number or otherwise notify e.g. a text message or email monitoring devices when the mobile bug connects to the receiving number. The agency service may also notify monitoring devices through the monitoring interface or via text massage or email.

To prohibit unauthorized access to receiving numbers and monitoring numbers the agency service may allow personnel and operators to specify key ins when provisioning and or mapping virtual numbers. The agency service stores the key ins in the mapping table or other suitable database structure and authenticates callers attempting connections to the virtual numbers responsive to correct key ins. In instances where the agency service instructs the provider to automatically dial a monitoring device from a virtual number the provider may initially connect the call without outbound audio if the device answers and then wait or prompt for a key in. In response to authentication of the key in the provider enables outbound audio to the dialed monitoring device . Depending on the embodiment the agency A agency service or provider may store the mapping table and or key ins for device identification and authentication.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a bug module to the mobile bug . The bug module interfaces with the native dialer of the mobile bug to maintain a persistent connection with a selected virtual number such as the receiving number. Additionally the bug module may interface with mobile bug software and or hardware to utilize features such as an image capture device and GPS to collect real time image or video and position data. The bug module transmits the collected data over the network back to the agency service or other entity. The agency service in turn may store the collected data for transmission to one or more monitoring devices and the agency A. Furthermore the bug module may be configured with a password or otherwise disguised when executed to prevent users other than the operator from accessing the module altogether and or particular features that would give away its true nature. The bug module is described in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the agency service includes a monitoring interface for providing data received from mobile bugs to various monitoring devices and or appliances over the network . For example the monitoring interface may provide monitoring devices with data corresponding to the status e.g. transmitting or disconnected of one or more mobile bugs . If the mobile bug is transmitting real time data the monitoring interface can stream data such as audio from the active transmission GPS coordinates with heading speed and coordinates of last reported locations for placement on a map collected image or video data and the internet protocol address and or telephone numbers of other personnel monitoring or having access to the mobile bug. In some embodiments the monitoring interface syncs collected data prior to transmission or includes tags in the transmitted data for synchronization of playback at the monitoring device . The monitoring interface can also stream or provide for download previously recorded monitoring sessions.

In some embodiments the agency service provides a monitoring module to monitoring devices for accessing the monitoring interface . The monitoring module transmits requests associated with configuring a mobile bug and receiving real time data collected by monitored bugs. For example the monitoring module may provide a user interface or status dashboard with options for provisioning virtual numbers mapping a transmitting number of a mobile bug or monitoring device to a given virtual number and assigning key ins for connecting to the virtual number. In one embodiment the dashboard provides an option to toggle a recording session on or off with the agency service . When the recording session is disabled the monitoring device still receives real time data but the agency service appliance and provider do not store copied of the collected data.

The monitoring module may also display real time status information for the mobile bug including current GPS location tracked GPS location live audio and image data mapping table information and other information collected from the mobile bug and streamed by the monitoring interface . Similarly the monitoring module may be used to access and playback historic activity associated with a given virtual number or mobile bug . For example the monitoring module may download files for playback or steam them. In addition to interfacing with the agency service the monitoring module may interface with an appliance that stores or backs up collected data within the agency A. Additionally the monitoring module may include functionality of the bug module and vice versa.

In one embodiment the agency A includes an appliance for storing data collected by mobile bugs . The appliance may utilize the monitoring interface provided by the agency service for updating stored data or receive data directly from mobile bugs . Additionally the appliance may receive audio recorded on a virtual number and associated transcripts from the provider or agency service . One example embodiment of the appliance also includes its own monitoring interface not shown that enables monitoring devices to access real time and historic data stored on the appliance for the mobile bug . Monitoring interfaces provided by the agency service or appliance may also be accessible via a web browser for streaming or downloading data and include the same or similar options.

Additionally the appliance and agency service may communicate to intermittently update collected data and records at defined intervals or in response to notifications to download data. During the intervals or notification periods the agency service may process the data and perform any necessary actions as desired by mobile bugs or monitoring device until the data is transferred to the appliance . In some embodiments the agency service maintains a persistent connection with the appliance to facilitate transfer of real time data collected by mobile bugs operated in the field.

In one embodiment the agency service insures that it and the provider do not possess data collected by mobile bugs beyond the time needed to facilitate transfer. However in mission critical situations operators and other agency A personnel cannot rely only on the availability of the appliance for storing and maintaining collected data. Consequently if the appliance is unable to take possession of the collected data or go offline during transfer the agency service and or the provider may maintain possession of the collected data until the appliance is functioning. Furthermore the agency service and or provider may determine whether checksums hashes or sizes of transferred data match the appliance s version prior to deleting stored data.

In some embodiments the agency service maintains an appliance instead of or in addition to the agency A. In such cases the appliance may exist as a dedicated piece of hardware or remote storage. Alternatively embodiments of the appliance may be implemented in a cloud computing and storage stack available on the network .

The connection module maintains a persistent connection between the mobile bug and a virtual number such as the receiving number mapped to the transmitting number of the mobile bug . For example the operator may move into an area without network service and unknowingly disconnect the mobile bug from the receiving number or otherwise prevent successful transfer of data to an entity on the network. The connection module receives input from the operator including the receiving number associated with the mobile bug . Once a connection with the receiving number is established the connection module detects network disruptions such as dropped calls timeouts or packet loss and automatically reestablishes connection with the receiving number or retries transmission of collected data over the network.

In one embodiment the connection module communicates with a native dialer of the mobile bug to redial the receiving number and reestablish the connection without intervention from the operator. When the operator desires to terminate transmission the connection module may receive input from a designated disconnect button to terminate the call and stop the auto redialing process.

Depending on the mobile bug s capabilities the communication module may enable placement receipt of outgoing and incoming calls e.g. other than those placed within the module to the receiving number during monitoring e.g. via call waiting features within the native dialer application or similar. Embodiments of the communication module and or protection module may suppress visual notifications or queues that the communication module is maintaining a connection with the receiving number. In some instances the communication module can pass audio from the inbound or outbound call to the call waiting connection with the receiving number to prevent gaps in audio monitoring.

The GPS module communicates with a native GPS receiver on the mobile bug to receive GPS location data. The GPS module may also communicate with other radio receivers and directional mechanisms e.g. compass or accelerometers on the mobile bug to receive additional location data. The GPS module processes the GPS and radio location data to determine and refine an estimated location measurement for the mobile bug . The location measurement may include but is not limited to a latitude longitude altitude heading speed associated accuracy measurement and the time and date of recording. The GPS module transmits the determined location measurement over the network the agency service or other entity. In one embodiment the GPS module streams the location measurement in real time.

The imaging module communicates with a native image sensor on the mobile bug for capturing still images or videos. The imaging module may downsample e.g. compress collected image data for transmission over the network based on available bandwidth. Thus for example the imaging module may stream the collected image data in real time. High resolution image data may be stored directly on the device for subsequent transmission as bandwidth becomes available.

In some embodiments a protection module interfaces with the operating system of the mobile bug to provide options or functionality for concealing operations of the bug module on the mobile bug . For example the protection module provides operators with option to run the bug module in the background and only reveal or access the bug module in response to a specified key in e.g. button press combination password or other personal identification . In another example the protection module mimics the look and feel of the native operating system or calling application on the phone to conceal use of bug module functionality. However unlike the native operating system or calling application the protection module provides password protection locking e.g. with a key in or otherwise visually concealed or protected configuration options and viewing of current call activity for connections established using the communications module .

The provisioning module interfaces with the provider or agency services to provision virtual numbers and modify virtual number assignments and function in the field. Alternatively a web browser on the mobile bug may be used.

In some embodiments the bug module and the modules therein interface and communicate with non native devices attached to the mobile bug . For example audio images and locations data can be determined from accessories coupled e.g. wired microphone or imaging device or wirelessly connected e.g. Bluetooth headset to the mobile bug .

The agency service queries the provider for virtual numbers matching the specified calling code. The provider returns a list of available virtual numbers to the agency service which in turn transmits the virtual numbers for display to the requestor. The agency service receives one or more virtual number selections and claims each selected virtual number from the provider . The agency service may optionally include corresponding ANI and caller identification information for a virtual number that may be edited on the requesting device or in the web interface. The agency service subsequently stores the modified virtual number information and instructs the provider to update the associated virtual number information.

With one or more virtual numbers claimed the agency service can receive mapping requests for the virtual numbers and in turn map the virtual numbers responsive to information in the mapping request. For example the requestor may be prompted to enter the transmitting number of a mobile bug for association with a virtual number to be used as a receiving number. The agency service stores the transmitting number of the mobile bug and the receiving number in a mapping table e.g. at the agency service or on the appliance . The requestor may modify the mapping at any time without any interruption of service at the receiving number.

Oftentimes receiving numbers have a different country code or area code than monitoring devices connecting to the receiving number to monitor the mobile bug . In some cases the requestor knows the country code or area code where the monitoring devices are located. Accordingly to avoid costly charges for the agency A the agency service allows the requestor to provision additional virtual numbers with the known country codes and area codes for use as monitoring numbers. The agency service may then receive mapping requests for the monitoring numbers and in turn map monitoring numbers to specified receiving numbers.

When a monitoring device subsequently dials a monitoring number the agency service identifies the associated receiving number from the mapping table and instructs the provider to connect the monitoring device to the receiving number or pass audio from the receiving number to the monitoring number and connect the monitoring device to the monitoring number.

In some embodiments monitoring numbers can be tied to the transmitting number of a mobile bug for automatic mapping to receiving numbers. For example an operator using the same mobile bug for multiple investigations may utilize a different receiving number for each investigation e.g. to keep distinct records . Rather than requiring the operator or personnel monitoring the operator to assign monitoring numbers or frequently modify mapping to each receiving number on an individual basis a monitoring number can be tied to the mobile bug . When the mobile bug is mapped or used with a receiving number the agency service maps the tied monitoring number to the receiving number. In such a way a given monitoring number may be dedicated to monitoring a particular mobile bug . A requestor may re specify the mapping configuration as needed to change or swap claimed virtual numbers and transmitting numbers between receiving numbers and monitoring numbers.

Example embodiments of monitoring device mapping to receiving numbers and or monitoring numbers can be performed in the same or similar fashion as mobile bug mappings.

When the agency service receives connection requests to receiving numbers A from the network the agency service identifies the connecting device as the mobile bug based on the transmitting number A stored in the mapping table A. If the connecting device s number does not match the transmitting number A the agency service identifies the device as a monitoring device .

Prior to connecting the monitoring device to the receiving number the agency service may wait or instruct the provider to wait for key in of a specified password. If an improper password or no password is received the monitoring device is disconnected. In one embodiment the monitoring device must enter the password within a given time period e.g. 10 30 seconds without being prompted to mitigate suspicion if the line is dialed by another party. In some embodiments the mapping table A further includes mappings of monitoring device transmitting numbers to explicitly identify monitoring devices in addition to mobile bugs .

When the agency service receives connection requests to monitoring numbers from the network the agency service automatically identifies the connecting device as a monitoring device and identifies the associated receiving number B from the mapping table B. The agency service in turn instructs the provider to connect the monitoring device with the receiving number B e.g. directly or through the monitoring number . Prior to connecting the monitoring device key in of a specified password may be required. In some embodiments the mapping table A further includes mappings of monitoring device transmitting numbers to explicitly identify monitoring devices in addition to mobile bugs .

The provider receives the connection request via the telephony network and identifies the dialed number as a virtual number provisioned by agency service . Accordingly in embodiments where the agency service stores the mapping table the provider passes the transmitting number of the device attempting to connect to the virtual number to the agency service .

The agency service in turn identifies the device attempting to connect to the virtual number as either the mobile bug or a monitoring device from the mapping table. In the case of the mobile bug the agency service determines that the transmitting number stored in the mapping table for the dialed receiving number matches the number of device attempting to connect to the receiving number. The agency service then instructs the provider to connect the device to the receiving number as the mobile bug and disable e.g. mute outgoing audio to the mobile bug.

In one embodiment the agency service identifies devices with numbers that do not match the transmitting number stored in the mapping table for a receiving number as monitoring devices . The agency service then instructs the provider to connect the device to the receiving number as a monitoring device .

If the agency service determines that the device is attempting to connect to a monitoring number the agency service identifies the device as a monitoring device . The agency service then determines which receiving number the monitoring number is mapped to and instructs the provider to connect the device to the receiving number e.g. directly or via the monitoring number as a monitoring device .

The monitoring devices may communicate with other devices monitoring the mobile bug e.g. like a conference call between the receiving number and or monitoring numbers although no audio is transmitted to the mobile bug. Additionally the provider or agency service may provide the monitoring devices A with key combinations e.g. 1 2 etc. to mute other monitoring devices the mobile bug or their own device.

In some embodiments the PSTN or provider fails to pass the transmitting number associated with a mobile bug or monitoring device to the provider or agency service . For example the provider or agency service may receive a number other than the mobile bug s and incorrectly identify the mobile bug. Some example PSTN and provider failures are all zeroes numbers 00 000 000 0000 restricted numbers 737 874 2833 or simply an incorrect number for the mobile bug . In any instance the agency service may be unable to identify the mobile bug by the received transmitting number.

The agency service can recognize that some numbers are passed incorrectly e.g. a restricted number or zeroes number . In response the agency service may play a prompt or instruct the provider to play a prompt such as press 1 for a mobile bug or press 2 for a monitoring device. In practice the prompt can be ambiguous e.g. please enter the extension of the party you are trying to reach or similar for the safety of the operator if another party dials the virtual number. Operators or personnel may then key in as using a mobile bug or monitoring device .

Alternatively as the key ins of the mobile bug and monitoring device typically differ the agency service may instruct the provider to simply play a generic tone or number not available recording to notify users that they need to key in. The matching of a key in with stored authentication information identifies and activates the connecting device as the mobile bug or monitoring device .

In some embodiments the agency service may prompt all connecting device to key in for identification. For example an agency A may want to enable the option to use unmapped devices as mobile bugs on a specified receiving number.

The mobile bug collects audio data using a microphone coupled to the mobile bug. The mobile bug in turn transmits the collected audio data to the provider by way of the connection to the receiving number. The provider in addition to enabling monitoring devices to connect to the receiving number transmits the audio data received from the mobile bug to the agency service or appliance over the network .

The mobile bug may also collect image data using an image sensor coupled to the mobile bug. The mobile bug in turn transmits the collected image data to the agency service . In some embodiments the mobile bug downsamples collected image data e.g. based on available network bandwidth such that mobile bug can stream image or video in real time.

Furthermore the mobile bug may also collect location data from GPS receivers and other direction mechanism coupled to the mobile bug. The mobile bug determines a location measurement including the position of the mobile bug direction and speed of the mobile bug and associated accuracy of the measurement. The mobile bug transmits the location measurement to the agency service . In some embodiments the mobile bug determines and transmits the location measurements in real time to the agency service .

In some instances the connection between the mobile bug and the receiving number e.g. via the provider or the agency service may be terminated or timeout. In the case of a disconnection from the receiving number the mobile bug attempts to reestablish the terminated connection in the background by redialing the receiving number and automatically providing any necessary key in information. To reestablish a connection with the agency service the mobile bug may intermittently test network availability and subsequently connect to the agency service when able.

In one embodiment the mobile bug transmits data collected during disconnect periods in the background of real time data. For example while the provider typically handles audio data via the receiving number the agency service may receive any audio data collected during disconnect periods. Accordingly the agency service may update the appliance with the received audio data. The agency service or provider can also update the appliance with any other data received from the provider and or mobile bug .

In one embodiment the monitoring device connects to a receiving number or monitoring number for monitoring A the mobile bug . The monitoring device may be connected by answering an incoming call from the monitoring or receiving number initiated by the provider or dialing a virtual number directly as described with reference to .

Once the connection between the monitoring device and the receiving number or monitoring number is established the monitoring device receives the live audio transmitted to the receiving number from the mobile bug . To continue monitoring A the mobile bug the monitoring device simply maintains the connection with the receiving number or monitoring number.

In another embodiment the monitoring device connects to the agency service and or appliance for monitoring B the mobile bug . The monitoring device may establish the connection using a web browser or monitoring module that retrieves or streams collected data via a monitoring interface on the appliance or agency service e.g. monitoring interface .

In one example embodiment the monitoring device streams image audio and or location measurements in real time from the agency service . In addition the monitoring device can retrieve historical data stored on the appliance to view previous mobile bug operating sessions . In some embodiments the appliance also supports real time monitoring.

In some instances the monitoring device receives notifications from the monitoring interface for display in the web browser or with the monitoring module . Example notifications include audio or visual alerts for notifying personnel if the mobile bug stops transmitting real time data to the receiving number appliance or agency service . If the mobile bug reestablishes a connection the monitoring device may also receive notifications when real time data streaming has resumed or when data collected by the mobile bug during the disconnected period becomes available

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

