---

title: Waveform frequency notching
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to incorporating one or more notches into a radar spectrum, whereby the notches relate to one or more frequencies for which no radar transmission is to occur. An instantaneous frequency is monitored and if the frequency is determined to be of a restricted frequency, then a radar signal can be modified. Modification can include replacing the signal with a signal having a different instantaneous amplitude, a different instantaneous phase, etc. The modification can occur in a WFS prior to a DAC, as well as prior to a sin ROM component and/or a cos ROM component. Further, the notch can be dithered to enable formation of a deep notch. The notch can also undergo signal transitioning to enable formation of a deep notch. The restricted frequencies can be stored in a LUT against which an instantaneous frequency can be compared.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09645227&OS=09645227&RS=09645227
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09645227
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141120
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Radar technologies can utilize pulse modulation to achieve wide bandwidths for fine range resolution in conjunction with long pulses duration to enhance pulse energy and hence enhance signal to noise ratio SNR for both transmitted and received signals.

To achieve finer signal resolutions radar signal technologies are being developed that utilize ever larger bandwidths. Radar frequency bands are chosen to facilitate some advantage to an immediate mission such as foliage or ground penetration at the lower frequencies e.g. ultra high frequency UHF very high frequency VHF and lower through to long range operation in adverse weather at lower microwave frequencies to ultra fine resolutions and narrow antenna beams at frequencies corresponding to a millimeter wavelength.

As the necessary operational bandwidth increases particularly at the lower frequencies a radar signal may have to compete with other spectrum users for any required frequency bands and sub bands. Such competition can be manifested as interference whereby a radar system can act as both an offender and a victim depending on the nature of the interference.

Regulatory limits can be in place to prohibit a radar system from transmitting in one or more specific spectral regions which in turn can limit operation of the radar system.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

A plurality of embodiments are presented herein relating to generation of a notched chirp signal for a radar application e.g. a linear frequency modulated LFM chirp. In an embodiment a circuit can include or have access to a programmable look up table LUT whereby the LUT can include one or more frequency bands over which transmission is forbidden or restricted. In conjunction with the LUT an instantaneous chirp frequency a frequency over which energy is to be transmitted in a chirp at an instantaneous point in time can be monitored to determine whether the instantaneous frequency is included in a frequency band in the list of forbidden frequency bands and accordingly an indication can be generated with regard to whether the instantaneous frequency is either passed unmodified or undergoes a notching operation owing to being forbidden.

In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is to be passed then a phase for the instantaneous frequency can be passed to a sin ROM component for conversion to a desired waveform instantaneous amplitude. In an embodiment the sin ROM component can convert the phase of the instantaneous frequency to an instantaneous amplitude of a sinusoid.

In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is to be notched from the chirp a signal path across the circuit can be interrupted in at least one of the following locations 

 i at the output of the sin ROM component the amplitude word that is applied to a DAC can be substituted with another that causes a zero signal level at the output of the DAC thereby disabling the waveform for a duration that the chirp would otherwise transmit energy over the frequencies of the notch.

 ii at the input to the sin ROM component the phase e.g. a first phase or an original phase of the instantaneous frequency can be substituted with another phase e.g. a second phase such that the sin ROM component selects a phase that causes the instantaneous output of the DAC to go to a zero signal level thereby disabling the waveform for the duration that the chirp would otherwise transmit energy over the frequencies of the notch.

To preserve phase linearity across the notch an LFM chirp generator component that is configured to generate the chirp can continue to update in the background generally unaware whether its output is being passed to the sin ROM and or ultimately to the DAC or not.

Furthermore in an embodiment the depth of the notch can be significantly improved e.g. in a statistical sense by randomly modulating the spectral location of the transitions between frequencies that are to be included in the chirp and a notch.

In another embodiment the notch may be implemented with a controlled gradual transition between on and off to similarly control notch depth.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to generating one of more frequency notches in a radar waveform are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As previously mentioned radar systems may be restricted from transmitting within or across specific frequency bands in order to prevent interference with other spectrum users. The various embodiments presented herein relate to notching a transmitted spectrum of a generated and transmitted radar waveform. The one or more notches are fully programmable as to their location within a waveform and other characteristics that can be controlled. In an aspect the one or more notches can be programmed such that they coincide with one or more frequency ranges where radar signaling and transmission is restricted.

As noted above effecting a notch in a radar signal prior to conversion of the radar signal from a digital form to an analog form can be advantageous. With a conventional system disabling the output of a waveform synthesizer WFS can be accomplished by either switching off the signal path downstream from the WFS signal generator or by disabling the DAC in some manner. However such an approach is undesirable because switching speeds for the required components becomes problematic.

Accordingly the various embodiments presented herein enable one or more frequency notches to be programmed during a LFM chirp waveform generation process within a WFS itself. Furthermore switching speed issues can be avoided by in turn avoiding any external to the WFS signal switching or disabling the DAC. Also the various embodiments enable a waveform to be generated that preserves phase linearity outside of a notched region of the waveform.

The various embodiments are applicable to any frequency and or frequency range utilized to generate a signal waveform. As previously mentioned frequency competition can occur with other spectrum users over any frequency band s and or sub band s . In particular frequency competition may be pronounced at the lower frequencies such as UHF e.g. 300 MHz to 3 GHz VHF 30 MHz to 300 MHz microwave frequencies and frequencies corresponding to millimeter wavelength and lower.

System utilizes a pair of accumulators a frequency accumulator component and a phase accumulator component in conjunction with a frequency dependent phase error correction lookup table PEC LUT a frequency dependent blanking look up table LUT a sin read only memory ROM component a switch and a DAC to facilitate generation of a chirp e.g. a chirp having an analog format .

The frequency accumulator component can include a first adder component operating in series with a register component a feedback loop from an output of register component to the input of adder component and a second adder component .

At an initial state of operation of system the register can be initialized e.g. reset with a zero value or empty . A clock gate can be initialized e.g. at the start of generation of a desired waveform whereby a chirp rate constant k can be loaded into the adder component which via the feedback loop the chirp rate k can be recursively added to generate an accumulated chirp rate k operating at the register component . The frequency accumulator component can accumulate or integrate the chirp rate constant k whereby the value accumulated e.g. k at the register is a frequency offset indication. The accumulated kcan be added to a programmed initial frequency f which has been loaded into the adder component to facilitate provision of an output f t f kt an instantaneous frequency . For a LFM chirp the signal is a sweep of frequencies over time. Accordingly the instantaneous frequency is a frequency over which energy is to be transmitted at an instantaneous point in time.

In an embodiment the instantaneous frequency can subsequently be applied to the phase accumulator component . The phase accumulator component can include a third adder component operating in series with the second register component a feedback loop from an output of register component to the input of adder component and a fourth adder component . In an embodiment the phase accumulator component can receive the instantaneous frequency output by adder component . The instantaneous frequency term can be integrated e.g. via adder component feedback loop and register component to provide an output . At the adder component an initial phase can be applied to the output to enable generation of an instantaneous phase t e.g. output . Accordingly with the generation of the instantaneous phase the combination of frequency accumulator component and the phase accumulator component can be collectively known as a phase generator PG or a PG logic circuit.

The resulting instantaneous phase t can be loaded into the sin ROM component whereby the sin ROM component can be configured to convert the instantaneous phase t to an instantaneous amplitude. In an embodiment the sin ROM component can be a look up table an algorithm etc. In a further embodiment the sin ROM can include one cycle of a sine waveform. The output of the sin ROM component can be forwarded to the DAC whereby the forwarding can be via a switch as described further herein . At the DAC the output from the sin ROM component can be converted to provide an instantaneous analog signal for subsequent transmission by a radar system e.g. a chirp . In an embodiment the process enabled by the above described components can continue until a full pulse waveform is generated at which time the clock and clock gate can be disabled and the process is repeated for the next pulse.

In a further embodiment the instantaneous frequency can be utilized to further modify at least one characteristic of an output signal. For example the instantaneous frequency can be utilized to implement a frequency dependent phase error correction to equalize a signaling operation being performed at the adder component e.g. to compensate for one or more nonlinearities in one or more radio frequency RF components incorporated into a radar system .

In another embodiment the instantaneous frequency can be compared with one or more frequencies stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . As previously mentioned radar signaling and transmission can be restricted over certain frequencies. In an aspect one or more restricted frequencies may occur within one or more desired frequency ranges of a waveform and accordingly transmission at the one or more frequencies is to be avoided. Any regions of transmission in a waveform that are to have zero transmission can be referred to as blanked or notched . Accordingly the frequency dependent blanking LUT can be configured to include the one or more restricted frequencies frequency bands . In an embodiment the frequency dependent blanking LUT can be preconfigured or programmed with one or more frequencies where no transmission is to occur. In an alternative embodiment the frequency dependent blanking LUT can be updated in real time or near real time in accordance with any frequency restrictions that are currently being encountered or may be encountered in the future. For example an aircraft which has system operating onboard may be flying from one airspace which has a first set of frequency restrictions e.g. restrictions into a second airspace that has a second set of flying restrictions e.g. restrictions and accordingly the frequency dependent blanking LUT can be updated in accordance with the respective frequency restriction s currently in operation or to be encountered at some future time. Accordingly notching of a waveform can be dynamic with regard to any given frequency restriction s currently in operation or to be encountered at some future time.

Owing to a chirp e.g. an LFM chirp being a sweep of frequencies with time any instantaneous frequency will exist only once during generation and or transmission of a chirp waveform. Accordingly the frequency dependent blanking LUT can be constructed in view of the single instance of an instantaneous frequency. It is to be further noted that during conversion by the sin ROM component of the instantaneous phase to an instantaneous amplitude there is at least one phase where the output amplitude is zero i.e. sin 0 0. In an aspect the sin ROM component can implement a trigonometric sin function. As further described herein when a cos ROM component e.g. a cos ROM component is utilized the phase can be set to cos 2 0 with the cos ROM component implementing a trigonometric cos function.

As illustrated in the system can include a switch which can be utilized to enable the DAC to be switched from the instantaneous amplitude signal generated by the sin ROM component on an input to an amplitude signal being received on an input . In an embodiment the amplitude signal received on input can be a constant amplitude input to be utilized for one or more frequencies defined for which a notch es is desired in a waveform e.g. for the one or more frequencies defined in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . In an aspect any constant amplitude signal can effect a notch being formed in a waveform but a zero amplitude signal can avoid adding a DC bias to a signal being outputted from DAC .

In an embodiment a control component can be connected to the frequency dependent blanking LUT . The control component can monitor the instantaneous frequency being received at the frequency dependent blanking LUT and determine whether the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is not a restricted frequency the switch can be controlled e.g. by a first indicator in a signal sent from the control component to operate utilizing the instantaneous amplitude signal at the input e.g. a first switch position with the instantaneous amplitude signal being passed through the switch and output as signal to be subsequently input into the DAC . Hence with the switch in the first switch position a signal e.g. the instantaneous amplitude signal received at the switch input can pass through the switch unmodified.

Alternatively in response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency listed in the frequency dependent blanking LUT the switch can be controlled to operate e.g. by a second indicator in the signal sent from the control component utilizing an input e.g. a second switch position with the amplitude signal being passed through the switch as signal to be input into the DAC and subsequently utilized in the formation of the chirp . Hence with the switch in the second position a signal e.g. the instantaneous amplitude signal received at the switch input can be replaced by an amplitude signal e.g. signal being a zero amplitude signal received on the input .

In an embodiment a dither component can be incorporated into the system and can be utilized to apply a dither to a notch width when a plurality of waveforms e.g. a sequence or group of waveforms are being generated. The dither component can be communicatively coupled to the frequency dependent blanking LUT and or the controller . The dither component can be programmed with at least one notch dither width whereby a notch dither width can identify a range over which a dither operation is to occur. A notch dither width can be established based upon a sampling frequency of a waveform as further described with reference to and . The dither component can operate in isolation e.g. by identifying a notch transition in a waveform and dithering the frequency at which the notch transition will occur. Alternatively the dither component can operate based upon one or more forbidden frequencies defined in the frequency dependent blanking LUT and adjust the frequency at which a notch transition can occur based upon the one or more forbidden frequencies. Accordingly the dither component can adjust a frequency at which the notch transition will occur at the switch .

Turning to system is presented whereby system can be a WFS circuit configured to synthesize a desired waveform s such as one or more chirps and or e.g. a LFM chirp s . System can be utilized to generate a quadrature WFS whereby a quadrature WFS comprising the chirp and or chirp can be utilized to provide one or more outputs for a single sideband SSB mixer for example. In an aspect such a WFS is capable of double the signal bandwidth of a single ended WFS e.g. as generated by system . As described further herein system can be configured to generate one or more notches in one or both of chirps and or chirp whereby the one or more notches correlate to one or more frequencies for which signaling e.g. radar signaling is not to occur. Chirp can be a Q channel output and chirp can be an I channel output.

System includes comparable components to those included in system and per the common labeling the comparable components can function in a similar manner to that described with regard to system above. However owing to system being utilized to generate a quadrature WFS system further includes a cos ROM component which is connected to a second switch and a second DAC . The second switch operates in a manner similar to a first switch and the second DAC operates in a manner similar to a first DAC .

The control component can monitor the instantaneous frequency being received at the frequency dependent blanking LUT and determine whether the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is not a restricted frequency the switch can be controlled e.g. by a signal sent from the control component to operate utilizing the input with the instantaneous amplitude signal generated by the cos ROM component being passed through the switch as signal to be input into the DAC . Alternatively in response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency listed in the frequency dependent blanking LUT the switch can be controlled e.g. by the signal sent from the control component to operate utilizing the input with the amplitude signal being passed through the switch as signal to be input into the DAC and subsequently utilized in the formation of the notch in chirp .

It is to be appreciated that while illustrates a frequency dependent PEC LUT being common to both the sin ROM component input channel and the cos ROM component input channel separate frequency dependent PEC LUT s can be utilized whereby one for each of the respective input channels would enable correction of differential channel errors particularly such errors that can be manifest when operating SSB analog mixers.

In an embodiment one or more dither components can be incorporated into the system and can be utilized to apply a dither to a notch width when a plurality of waveforms are being generated as previously described with reference to system and as further described with reference to .

System includes comparable components to those included in system and per the common labeling the common components can function in a similar manner to that described with regard to system above. However system operates by switching an input to the sin ROM component and accordingly in comparison with system a switch can be located in the system prior to the sin ROM component . In contrast for the system the switch is located after the sin ROM component . Further while the switch of system operates to apply an amplitude signal switch can operate with a constant phase e.g. a zero phase being utilized to generate a notch in a waveform.

In an embodiment a switch control component can be connected to the frequency dependent blanking LUT . The switch control component can monitor the instantaneous frequency being received at the frequency dependent blanking LUT and determine whether the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is not a restricted frequency the switch can be controlled e.g. by a signal sent from the control component to operate with the switch utilizing the instantaneous phase signal received at input with the instantaneous phase signal being passed to the sin ROM component as output and subsequently to be utilized as an input into the DAC . Alternatively in response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency listed in the frequency dependent blanking LUT the switch can be controlled e.g. by the signal sent from the control component to operate utilizing the input with the phase signal being passed through the switch as signal to be input into the sin ROM component and accordingly into the DAC to subsequently form the chirp .

In an embodiment a dither component can be incorporated into the system and can be utilized to apply a dither to a notch width when a plurality of waveforms are being generated as previously described with reference to system and as further described with reference to .

Turning to system is presented whereby system can be a WFS circuit configured to synthesize a desired waveform s such as one or more chirps and or e.g. LFM chirps . System can be utilized to generate a quadrature WFS whereby a quadrature WFS comprising the chirp and or chirp can be utilized to provide one or more outputs for a single sideband SSB mixer for example. In an aspects such a WFS is capable of double the signal bandwidth of a single ended WFS e.g. as generated by system . As described further herein system can be configured to generate one or more notches in a respective chirp e.g. chirp and or analog chirp whereby the one or more notches correlate to one or more frequencies for which signaling e.g. radar signaling is not to occur. Chirp can be a Q channel output and chirp can be an I channel output.

System includes comparable components to those included in system and per the common labeling function in a similar manner to that described with regard to system above. However owing to system being utilized to generate a quadrature WFS system further includes a cos ROM component which is connected to a second switch and a second DAC . The second switch operates in a manner similar to the first switch and the second DAC operates in a manner similar to a first DAC . The switch control component can monitor the instantaneous frequency being received at the frequency dependent blanking LUT and determine whether the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . In response to determining that the instantaneous frequency is not a restricted frequency the control component can control e.g. with control signal to operate the switch to utilize the input with the instantaneous phase signal generated by adder component being passed unmodified through the switch to form output signal at output . The signal can be input into the cos ROM component to form a signal to be input into the DAC and ultimately form chirp .

Alternatively in response to the control component determining that the instantaneous frequency is a restricted frequency listed in the frequency dependent blanking LUT the switch can be controlled e.g. by the signal sent from the control component to operate utilizing the input with a 2 phase signal being passed through the switch as signal to be input into the cos ROM component to form a signal to be input into the DAC and ultimately form a notch in chirp .

In an embodiment one or more dither components can be incorporated into the system and can be utilized to apply a dither to a notch width when a plurality of waveforms are being generated as previously described with reference to system and as further described with reference to .

To facilitate understanding of the systems and their respective application the following examples are provided whereby 

and furthermore the following are restricted frequencies and accordingly notches are desired in a waveform s 

Accordingly the first frequency range and the second frequency range values can be entered into the frequency dependent blanking LUT as utilized in systems e.g. The first frequency range values and the second frequency range values can be utilized by the control component to determine whether a respective switch e.g. by restriction and or restriction any of switches and or is to be switched to a respective constant amplitude signal or a constant phase signal as previously described. The following description is presented with regard to the system however it is to be appreciated that the aspects described below with regard to quadrature phase switching are equally applicable to the amplitude and phase switching embodiments presented in systems .

In an aspect if increasing a time bandwidth product of a chirp is impractical in an alternate embodiment whereby for example a desired radar data includes multiple pulses then the edges e.g. sidewalls of the notches and can be modulated to deepen a respective notch.

For example in an embodiment a band edge of a desired notch can be dithered randomly from one pulse to the next in a plurality of pulses. illustrates a graph of frequency GHz versus LUT values depicting 10 pulses overlaid plots . As shown the plots are taken from the second notch region of the waveform presented in . In the example depicted in the dithering was applied in the form of a random adjustment of the width w of the notch e.g. notch with the adjustment limited to about 0.1 of the sampling frequency. Accordingly the width w was adjusted by about 1 MHz which equates to the edges of the notch being adjusted inward or outward by as much as about 0.5 MHz. It is to be appreciated that the dithering adjustment values presented here are example values and any values can be utilized to engender a dithering effect.

In a further embodiment it is possible to improve and or increase a depth of a notch in a single pulse waveform. In the previously described embodiments systems the frequency dependent blanking LUT effectively operates in a binary manner whereby the signal indicates that a respective switch e.g. any of switches and or is to be switched to allow a signal to pass through the switch unmodified e.g. the signal is in a frequency range that is allowed to be transmitted or the signal is replaced e.g. with a zero amplitude signal a zero phase signal a 2 phase signal to render the waveform to have a zero magnitude e.g. for one or more restricted frequency ranges . Accordingly the signal can be considered to comprise of an off state e.g. signaling is unmodified and an on state e.g. signaling is modified to zero magnitude .

However rather than utilizing a transition from a first region of unrestricted frequency transmission to a region of restricted frequency transmission and then subsequently transitioning to a second region of unrestricted frequency transmission in a signaling off on off mechanism as previously described an amplitude indication can be utilized to generated a sampled continuum of values between 0 e.g. no transmission and 1 e.g. unrestricted transmission .

System includes components which are common to system as described earlier. In comparison with system system includes a pair of multiplier components and respectively located between the sin ROM component and a first DAC and the cos ROM component and a second DAC whereby the second DAC is equivalent to a DAC . As previously described control component can monitor an instantaneous frequency and compare the instantaneous frequency with one or more signaling frequencies stored in the frequency dependent blanking LUT . If an instantaneous frequency is not restricted then instantaneous amplitude signals and respectively generated by the sin ROM component and the cos ROM component can be fed unmodified into the respective DAC s and . However if an instantaneous frequency is restricted then the control component can send a control signal such that the instantaneous amplitude signal undergoes modification at the multiplier component prior to being fed into the DAC . Further if an instantaneous frequency is restricted then the control component can also send a control signal such that the instantaneous amplitude signal from the cos ROM component undergoes modification at the multiplier component prior to being fed into the DAC . As mentioned with regard to the signal transition can be configured to occur over a particular range of the sampling frequency.

It is to be appreciated that the switch components and and multiplier components and can be considered to be performing signal modification with respect to the respective signals being input into the respective switch component s and or multiplier component s e.g. signals etc. Accordingly the switch components and and multiplier components and are also referred to herein as signal modifier components. Furthermore the controller can be utilized in the respective embodiments to switch or adjust operation of a signal modifier component from a first state e.g. unmodified operation to a second state modified and or transitioned operation .

In an aspect for the spectrum of plot to be maintained between WFS output and transmitted signal the analog signal channel should be strongly linear such that the amplitude scaling is maintained. Owing to the spectrum of plot being based on amplitude scaling any signal path amplitude compression such as is often exhibited by many components including power amplifiers can alter the amplitude scaling and thereby alter the spectrum characteristics. Accordingly depending on the specific magnitude compression characteristics exhibited by various analog RF components in the signal path and the specific notch edge tapering employed the notch characteristics might be either degraded or even improved in some cases. Hence a notch tapering can be selected to enable tapering to specifically compensate for subsequent analog component linearity and thus achieve a more precise transmitted spectrum.

As previously mentioned the various systems and presented herein can preserve phase linearity across the notch. A LFM chirp generator component e.g. the phase generator comprising the frequency accumulator and the phase accumulator can be configured such that generation of a chirp waveform can continue to update as a background operation and unaware whether its output is being passed to a sin ROM component a cos ROM component and or ultimately to a DAC or not. Each system is configured such that generation of an instantaneous frequency and or instantaneous phase signals can occur prior to any modification or notching circuitry. Hence the instantaneous frequency signals can be generated by the LFM chirp generator componentry without regard for any subsequent notching operation being performed.

At an instantaneous frequency can be obtained whereby the instantaneous frequency can be generated by a frequency accumulator. The frequency accumulator can form a first part of a phase generator system whereby the second part of the phase generator can be a phase accumulator.

At a determination can be made as to whether the instantaneous frequency is included in the one or more forbidden frequencies identified in the frequency list. The determination can be performed by a control component. The control component can be configured to transmit a control signal indicating whether the instantaneous frequency is forbidden or not. The control component can be connected to a switch as further described below.

At in response to a determination of NO the instantaneous frequency is not included in the one or more forbidden frequencies the instantaneous frequency can be utilized in a radar signal. Accordingly the control component can transmit the control signal to the switch indicating that the radar signal is to be generated for that frequency and a signal having a given magnitude or phase is to be passed through the switch unmodified. As previously described depending upon a system configuration the switch can be located at any of 

 a between an output of a sin ROM component and an input of a DAC. In this configuration a signal having an amplitude output from the sin ROM component can pass through the switch unmodified to the DAC.

 b between an output of a cos ROM component and an input of a DAC. In this configuration a signal having an instantaneous amplitude output from the cos ROM component can pass through the switch unmodified to the DAC.

 c between an output of a phase accumulator component and an input of a sin ROM component. In this configuration a signal having an instantaneous phase output from the phase accumulator component can pass through the switch unmodified to the sin ROM component.

 d between an output of a phase accumulator component and an input of a cos ROM component. In this configuration a signal having an instantaneous phase output from the phase accumulator component can pass through the switch unmodified to the cos ROM component.

Based upon any of the above described systems any of the signals based upon the instantaneous frequency the instantaneous amplitude or the instantaneous phase can be utilized in the generation of the radar signal.

At a determination can be made regarding whether the frequency range for the waveform is complete e.g. have all instantaneous frequencies in the waveform been processed In response to a determination that YES all of the frequencies in the frequency range have been processed the flow can return to either of whereby a new frequency list can be received. Alternatively the flow can return to generation of a subsequent waveform and reception of another instantaneous frequency for the waveform.

Returning to in response to a determination that YES the instantaneous frequency is included in the one or more forbidden frequencies a modified signal is to be utilized for the waveform. Accordingly the control component can transmit the control signal to the switch indicating a signal having a different magnitude or value e.g. different to any of the instantaneous frequency the instantaneous amplitude or the instantaneous phase is to be passed through the switch. Accordingly at based upon the previously mentioned configurations the following can occur in response to a control signal being generated by the control component and forwarded to the switch whereby the control signal indicates waveform modification 

 a where the switch is located between the output of a sin ROM component and the input of a DAC the switch can be switched to a second input facilitating a signal of constant amplitude e.g. zero amplitude to be output from the switch as an input into to the DAC.

 b where the switch is located between the output of a cos ROM component and the input of a DAC the switch can be switched to a second input facilitating a signal of constant amplitude e.g. zero amplitude to be output from the switch as an input into to the DAC.

 c where the switch is located between an output of a phase accumulator component and the input of a sin ROM component the switch can be switched to a second input facilitating a signal of constant phase e.g. zero phase sin 0 0 to be output from the switch as an input to the sin ROM component.

 d where the switch is located between an output of a phase accumulator component and the input of a cos ROM component the switch can be switched to a second input facilitating a signal of constant phase e.g. zero phase cos 2 0 to be output from the switch as an input to the cos ROM component.

 e where a multiplier component is being utilized e.g. to replace a switch at the output of a sin ROM component and or a cos ROM component such that a signal can be controlled to gradually transition from a first signal magnitude e.g. signal transmission to a second signal magnitude e.g. no signal transmission and vice versa.

Based upon any of the above described systems any of the modified frequency the modified amplitude or the modified phase can be utilized in the generation of the radar signal. Accordingly the flow can continue to where a determination of waveform complete can be performed as previously described.

At a plurality of parameters can be defined to facilitate one or more dithering operations. A notch dither width can be defined whereby the notch dither width can identify a range over which a dither operation is to occur. Per the previous example the notch dither width can be established based upon a sampling frequency of a waveform. For example for a waveform having a sampling frequency of 1 GHz a notch dither width of about 0.1 of the sampling frequency can be defined e.g. 1 MHz. Accordingly for a notch transition from a high state e.g. 1 to a low state e.g. 0 and vice versa the actual frequency at which a notch transition can occur per the example settings can be about 0.5 MHz e.g. the frequency range over which a respective edge of a notch can be adjusted inward or outward . The plurality of parameters can be stored and operated on by a dither component wherein the dither component can be communicatively coupled to a frequency dependent blanking look up table LUT and or a control component. In an embodiment the dither component can be configured to review a pre existing waveform e.g. as generated by a DAC to identify notch transitions and accordingly the transition frequency at which the signal is to transition from a first magnitude to a second magnitude or from the second magnitude to the first magnitude can be adjusted per the defined notch dither width. The dither component can be further communicatively coupled to a switch e.g. via the control component such that the dithering operation can be performed by dither component instructing when the frequency transition is to occur at the switch via the control component.

At generation of a waveform can occur. In an aspect a frequency spectrum for a waveform can be defined e.g. 1 GHz. Further based upon the restricted frequencies programmed into a frequency dependent blanking LUT respective frequencies for which one or more notches are to occur can be identified by the dither component.

At one or more dither operations can be applied to the waveform. For example a first undithered waveform is to transition from a high magnitude to a low magnitude at 0.2 GHz. A second waveform is to be dithered with the transition from the high magnitude to the low magnitude is to occur at 0.2005 GHz e.g. 0.005 GHz about a mean frequency of 0.2 GHz . Further a third waveform is to be dithered with the transition from the high magnitude to the low magnitude is to occur at 0.1995 GHz e.g. 0.005 GHz about a mean frequency of 0.2 GHz . Accordingly the average transition frequency for the three waveforms is 0.2 GHz over a range of 0.0005 GHz. In another embodiment as a notch transition occurs during generation of a waveform the notch transition can be adjusted in accordance with the notch dither width. Accordingly the dither component can instruct a transition to occur for each waveform whereby an instruction for transition at 0.2000 GHz for the first waveform a transition at 0.2005 GHz for dithering the second waveform and a transition at 0.1995 GHz for dithering the third waveform can be generated.

At a determination can be made as to whether the plurality of waveforms for which the dithering operation is to be applied have been transmitted. In response to a determination that NO not all of the waveforms have been transmitted the flow can return to for another waveform to be generated. For example a plurality of waveforms e.g. 1024 waveforms can be generated. In an embodiment the notch dither width can be divided by the number of waveforms to be generated such that a mean frequency of the notch transition s is the same as if only one waveform was being generated.

Returning to in response to a determination that YES the required number of waveforms have been transmitted the flow can proceed to . At the transmission of the required waveforms can end. Alternatively if another sequence of waveforms are to be transmitted the flow can return to as indicated by the hashed line.

At a frequency at which a waveform transitions from a first signal magnitude e.g. signal transmission to a second signal magnitude e.g. no signal transmission or vice versa can be identified. Accordingly as previously described the frequency transition can correlate to a sidewall of a notch. In an embodiment a transition from the first signal magnitude to the second signal magnitude can occur in such a manner that forming a frequency notch with a low e.g. zero magnitude can be difficult to achieve. However if a gradual transition is applied from the first signal magnitude to the second signal magnitude across the frequencies in the transition range a notch having a trough with a lower magnitude can be achieved. Accordingly a transition in frequency can be defined e.g. per a transition factor such that a notch sidewall thereformed can have an angular profile e.g. as shown in .

At the transition factor to facilitate achieving the sidewall having the gradual transition can be applied to a waveform comprising one or more notches and according sidewalls.

At the waveform with the gradual transition sidewalls can be transmitted. The flow can return to either of whereupon a different frequency transition can be defined or whereupon a waveform can be modified with the defined frequency transition.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be utilized to generate one or more notches in a waveform whereby the one or more notches can coincide with one or more restricted frequencies. For example computing device can operate as a control component in conjunction with the frequency dependent blanking LUT . Alternatively computing device can operate as a dither component . The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices. The terms component and system are also intended to encompass hardware configured to cause certain functionality to be performed where such hardware can include but is not limited to including Field programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Application specific Standard Products ASSPs System on a chip systems SOCs Complex Programmable Logic Devices CPLDs etc.

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

