---

title: Magneto-elastic non-volatile multiferroic logic and memory with ultralow energy dissipation
abstract: Memory cells, non-volatile logic gates, and combinations thereof have magneto-tunneling junctions (MTJs) which are switched using potential differences across a piezoelectric layer in elastic contact with a magnetostrictive nanomagnet of an MTJ. One or more pairs of electrodes are arranged about the MTJ for supplying voltage across the piezoelectric layer for switching. A permanent magnetic field may be employed to change the positions of the stable magnetic orientations of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet. Exemplary memory cells and universal non-volatile logic gates show dramatically improved performance characteristics, particularly with respect to energy dissipation and error-resilience, over existing methods and architectures for switching MTJs such as spin transfer torque (STT) techniques.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09379162&OS=09379162&RS=09379162
owner: Virginia Commonwealth University
number: 09379162
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141118
---
This invention was made with government support under contract numbers ECCS 1124714 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention pertains to non volatile memory and Boolean logic and more particularly memory cells and Boolean logic gates implemented with magneto tunneling junctions MTJs where the soft layer of the MTJ is switched with strain generated by a voltage resulting in ultralow energy dissipation during logic operation or writing of data into memory.

Magnetic random access memory MRAM for non volatile storage of data is typically implemented with a magneto tunneling junction MTJ whose two resistance states high and low encode the binary bits 1 and 0 . The MTJ has a hard and a soft magnetic layer separated by a spacer. Each of the two layers is usually elliptical and has two stable magnetization states along the major axis of the ellipse. When the magnetizations of the two layers are parallel the MTJ resistance is low and when they are anti parallel the resistance is high. Writing a bit into an MRAM cell therefore merely involves changing the resistance of the MTJ by orienting the magnetization of the soft layer either parallel or anti parallel to that of the hard layer.

The oldest bit writing scheme used a current induced magnetic field to orient the soft layer s magnetization. More recent schemes use spin transfer torque STT generated by passing a current through the MTJ or domain wall motion or manipulation of Rashba spin orbit interaction at interfaces or modulation of interface exchange coupling at a ferroelectric ferromagnetic interface with an electric field to orient the soft layer s magnetization. Most of these schemes are extremely dissipative and result in dissipating 10kT of energy per bit at room temperature 1 kT 4 10Joules at room temperature making them extremely energy inefficient and power hungry. Recently more energy efficient schemes have been demonstrated and involve rotating the soft layer s magnetization either with a spin polarized current generated via spin Hall effect or with voltage controlled magnetic anisotropy in oxides or with voltage controlled spin orbit torque in ferromagnets and magnetically doped topological insulators or with voltage generated uniaxial strain stress in a shape anisotropic magnetostrictive piezoelectric multiferroic nanomagnet. The strain stress is generated by applying an electrical voltage across the piezoelectric layer of the multiferroic nanomagnet.

Unfortunately strain stress as used in methods in the preceding paragraph can only rotate the magnetization of an elliptical multiferroic nanomagnet by up to 90 which means that it is not able to flip the magnetization from one stable state to the other since that requires a 180 rotation. When the magnetization is rotated to 90 there is an approximately equal probability of the magnetization going to either of the two stable orientations once strain is removed. This gives a 50 probability of successfully writing a bit into an MRAM cell. The only way to reliably achieve a full 180 rotation with each application of stress is to withdraw the stress as soon as the magnetization vector has rotated exactly 90 from the original orientation. If this withdrawal is timed with very high precision a residual torque due to the magnetization vector s out of plane component may continue to rotate it beyond 90 and achieve a flip with very high probability 99.99 at room temperature resulting in very high likelihood of writing a bit successfully into an MRAM cell. The problem with this methodology however is that such precisely timed withdrawal of stress requires a feedback mechanism that determines when the magnetization has completed the 90 rotation and feeds that information back to the voltage generator to withdraw the stress at exactly the right juncture. Such feedback circuitry introduces extremely high dissipative energy loss and defeats the benefits of using straintronic memory. This makes this strategy unappealing.

With respect to Boolean logic there is significant interest in non volatile logic because the ability to store and process information with the same device affords immense flexibility in designing computing architectures. Non volatile logic based architectures can reduce overall energy dissipation by eliminating refresh clock cycles improve system reliability improve reliability by eliminating processor memory communication and produce instant on computers with virtually no boot delay. A number of non volatile universal logic gates have been proposed to date but they do not necessarily satisfy all the requirements for a logic gate and therefore may not be usable in all circumstances. Cowburn et al. Cowburn R. P. Welland M. E. Room temperature magnetic quantum cellular automata. 287 1466 1468 2000 proposed an idea where digital bits are stored in the magnetization orientations of an array of dipole coupled nanomagnets and dipole coupling between neighbors elicits logic operation on the bits. This gate is not concatenable since the input and output bits are encoded in dissimilar physical quantities the inputs are encoded in directions of magnetic fields and the output is encoded in the magnetization orientation of a magnet. Thus the output of a preceding gate cannot act as the input to the succeeding gate without additional transducer hardware to convert the magnetization orientation of a nanomagnet into the direction of a magnetic field. Such transducer hardware drastically reduces the energy efficiency of the logic gates and makes them more error prone. The gate also lacks true power gain since the energy needed to switch the output comes from the inputs and not an independent source such as a power supply. This makes its operation unreliable. More importantly logic information cannot unidirectionally stream from the input gates to the output gates without multiphase clocking of the gates a scheme known as Bennett clocking C. H. Bennett The thermodynamics of computation A review. International Journal of Theoretical Physics 21 905 940 1982 which dissipates exorbitant amount of energy. Bennett clocking cannot be dispensed with since the unidirectional streaming is required for every logic operation. Additionally the strength of dipole coupling between magnets which is critical for logic operation decreases as the square of the magnet s volume. This limits scalability because the magnets sizes cannot be scaled down arbitrarily without endangering safe operation of the gates. Finally dipole coupling between the magnets is never sufficiently resilient against thermal noise resulting in unacceptably large dynamic bit error probability in dipole coupled logic gates.

Ney et al. Ney A. Pampuch C. Koch R. Ploog K. H. Programmable computing with a single magnetoresistive element. 425 485 487 2003 proposed a different construct where a NAND gate was implemented with a single magneto tunneling junction MTJ placed close to four current lines two of which ferry the two input bits to the gate the third is required for an initialization operation and the fourth carries the output. The magnetic fields generated by the input currents flip the magnetization of the MTJ s soft layer and switch its resistance thereby switching the magnitude of the output current and performing NAND logic operation. This gate has the advantage of not requiring Bennett clocking and has also been experimentally demonstrated Wang J. Meng H Wang J P Programmable spintronics logic device based on magnetic tunneling junction element. J. 97 10D509 2005 . Unfortunately this gate too is not directly concatenable since the input bits are encoded in the directions of the input currents while the output bit is encoded in the magnitude of the output current. Moreover since it is difficult to confine magnetic fields to small regions the separation between neighboring devices must be large. Individual devices can be small in size but because the inter device pitch is large the device density will be small. Finally there is some chance that the output current can also by itself switch the magnetization of the magnetic layers and therefore affect its own state. This is equivalent to lack of isolation between the input and the output. Thus while these devices are interesting in their own right they may not be universally usable.

A more recent scheme that overcomes some of the above shortcomings was proposed by Behin Aein et al. Behin Aein B. Datta D. Salahuddin S. Datta S. Proposal for an all spin logic device with built in memory. 5 266 269 2010 and Srinivasan et al. Srinivasan S. Sarkar A. Behin Aein B. Datta S. All spin logic device with in built non reciprocity. 47 4026 4032 2011 . It implements a non volatile universal logic gate with magnets switched by spin currents as opposed to charge currents hence the name all spin logic abbreviated as ASL . Unlike charge currents spin currents ideally dissipate no energy and therefore it was thought that this paradigm will be extremely energy efficient. However spin currents ultimately do require flow of charge currents whether the spin current is generated by a spin polarizer or the spin Hall effect and hence some dissipation is unavoidable. More importantly providing isolation between input and output requires introducing an asymmetry in the gate. The original ASL idea Behin Aein B. Datta D. Salahuddin S. Datta S. Proposal for an all spin logic device with built in memory. 5 266 269 2010 proposed introducing this asymmetry via different spin injection efficiencies engineered with tunnel barriers at the input and output ends while a later idea suggested introducing a ground terminal asymmetrically disposed between the input and output magnets Srinivasan S. Sarkar A. Behin Aein B. Datta S. All spin logic device with in built non reciprocity. 47 4026 4032 2011 . The latter idea simpler of the two invariably necessitates charge current flow with accompanying dissipation. Recent calculations Nikonov D. E. Young I. A. Overview of beyond CMOS devices and a uniform methodology for their benchmarking. Proc. IEEE 101 2498 2013 and Sharad M. Yogendra K. Gaud A. Kwon K W Roy K. Ultrahigh density high performance and energy efficient all spin logic. arXiv 1308.2280 have predicted that ASL is not particularly energy efficient the energy delay product exceeds 10Joules sec which makes it two orders of magnitude worse than traditional CMOS gates. That is a high price to pay for non volatility.

Moreover both computation and communication between gates are carried out with a sequence of clock pulses. Unfortunately its error resilience has not been examined. Normally magnetic devices are much more error prone than transistors since magnetization dynamics is easily disrupted by thermal noise. Logic has stringent requirements on error rates and it is important to evaluate the dynamic bit error probability of any gate to assess its viability.

Finally the most important metric for a logic gate is the energy delay cost. All existing non volatile magnetic logic schemes fail in this area. The scheme in Ney et al. uses current generated magnetic fields to switch magnets and hence would dissipate at least 10kT of energy per gate operation at room temperature to switch in 1 ns energy delay product 4 10J s . A different experiment conducted to demonstrate this scheme used on chip current generated magnetic fields to switch magnets and ended up dissipating approximately 10kT of energy per switching event despite switching in 1 s energy delay product 4 10J s . The scheme in Behin Aein et al. is expected to dissipate between 10and 10kT of energy when it switches in 1 ns energy delay product 4 10 4 10J s . In contrast a low power transistor may dissipate only 10kT of energy when it switches in 0.1 ns energy delay product 3 10J s . In short all the above non volatile schemes appear to be far inferior to transistors in energy delay product which may preclude their widespread application despite the non volatility.

Exemplary embodiments of non volatile magnetic memory and logic gates are disclosed which flip e.g. complete 180 rotation the magnetization of the soft layer of an MTJ with stress alone and without the need for any feedback circuitry to precisely time the stress strain cycle which undermines the energy efficiency and reliability of the bit writing scheme. Stress is applied to the soft layer sequentially in two steps instead of a single step to rotate the magnetization by 180 with 99.9999 probability at room temperature without requiring precisely timed stress application withdrawal and therefore dispensing of the feedback circuit. This results in an MRAM cell where writing a bit dissipates extremely small amount of energy. The elimination of feedback circuitry for timing makes the scheme fault tolerant and also greatly enhances the energy efficiency since the feedback circuitry would have been both unreliable and energy inefficient. This scheme for a memory element results in extremely low energy dissipation low write and read error rate and reasonably fast writing speed. It may be used as a foundation for a new generation of super energy efficient and reliable non volatile memory.

In another aspect of the invention there is provided a non volatile nanomagnetic reconfigurable NAND NOR logic gate. The inputs to the gate are provided in the form of voltages that result in a net strain in the soft magnetostrictive layer of an MTJ. If the strain due to any one input voltage being high e.g. encoding logic bit is sufficient to rotate the soft layer s magnetization then the gate acts as a NOR gate. However if the strain due to just one input voltage being high is not sufficient to rotate the magnetization but the strain due to both input voltages being high is sufficient then the gate acts as a NAND gate. This reconfigurable NAND NOR Boolean logic gate t has a superior energy delay product of 1.6 10J s and superior error probability of 10 which makes it ideal for current device trends dictated by Moore s law. Furthermore it satisfies all the requirements of logic. The gate error probability has been evaluated rigorously with stochastic simulation to establish its reliability. With careful choice of parameters it is possible to reduce the gate error probability to below 10at room temperature which is remarkable for magnetic logic. Therefore it is the first nanomagnetic logic gate that has the advantages of magnetic logic gates e.g. non volatility without the traditional disadvantages.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown a schematic of an exemplary memory element where the bit storing magneto tunneling junction MTJ is placed on top of a piezoelectric film deposited on an n silicon substrate . Note the use of n silicon is exemplary. The substrate may be any conducting substrate on which a piezoelectric material such as but not limited to PZT PMN PT Lead Niobate etc. can be deposited. Alternatively the substrate may be a nonconducting material in which case an additional conducting layer not shown in is interposed between the substrate and the piezoelectric film . Generally substrate will have greater thickness than what is shown in the drawing having a reduced thickness for simplicity of illustration. The piezoelectric film may be for example a Lead Zirconate Titanate PZT thin film and is poled in the direction indicated by arrow using an electric field. The hard layer of the MTJ has a fixed magnetic orientation e.g. . The soft layer has a magnetization with two stable orientations e.g. and and is separated from the hard layer by a thin insulating spacer layer . The geometry of the soft layer or more specifically the magnetostrictive nanomagnet may be in the shape of an ellipse rectangle parallelogram or any other shape having two stable magnetic orientations. The illustrative exemplary embodiment shown in has a magnetostrictive nanomagnet that is elliptical in shape.

In some exemplary embodiments the soft layer consists entirely of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet. As a result descriptions herein such as magnetization orientation magnetization state or other qualities or characteristics may be made with respect to the soft layer or the magnetostrictive nanomagnet the two nouns generally referring to the same structural element. As such for exemplary embodiments discussed herein the numeric identifier may be used with a few interchangeable names for the same structural element of the MTJ including but not limited to soft layer soft magnetic layer magnetostrictive nanomagnet magnetostrictive magnet nanomagnet soft magnet or simply magnet but not hard magnet . On a similar note in some exemplary embodiments hard layer consists entirely of the hard magnet of the MTJ . Context will also make apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art whether a given description refers to the magnetostrictive nanomagnet soft layer or the hard magnet hard layer .

The easy axes e.g. the major axis of an elliptical magnetostrictive nanomagnet of the hard and soft layers and are collinear and the hard layer is permanently magnetized in one direction e.g. along its easy axis. Two pairs of electrodes e.g. electrode pads AA and BB are arranged on the piezoelectric film where the arrangement is preferably such that a line LA joining members of a first pair of electrodes AA and a line LB joining members of a second pair of electrodes BB cross and or pass through the magnetostrictive nanomagnet . A line joining the members A and A of the first pair of electrodes and a line joining the members B and B of the second pair of electrodes are non parallel to one another and to both stable orientations and of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet . As used herein non parallel means neither parallel nor anti parallel. According to the illustrative embodiment shown in the line joining the pair of electrodes AA subtends an angle of 30 with the common major axis of the two layers and and the other pair of electrodes BB subtends an angle of 150 . This is just one example and other angles greater or less than 30 and other angles greater or less than 150 may also be used.

The magnetostrictive nanomagnet is in elastic contact with the piezoelectric film . According to the elliptical configuration shown in the magnetostrictive nanomagnet has a major axis a 110 nm minor axis b 90 nm and thickness d 6 nm. These are exemplary and non limiting dimensions. The dimensions of the magnet must be such that they ensure that the magnetostrictive nanomagnet has a single domain and the in plane potential energy barrier separating the stable magnetization orientations and along its easy axis is sufficiently large so as to substantially prevent spontaneous magnetization flipping. For example the in plane potential energy barrier may be 62.5 kT at room temperature. The probability of spontaneous magnetization flipping between the two stable states and due to thermal noise static error probability is therefore eper attempt leading to memory retention time 1 f e 4.4 10yr assuming the attempt frequency fis 1 THz. These dimensions are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting. Other embodiments may have different dimensions which also meet the criteria of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet having a single domain and having a sufficiently high in plane potential energy barrier separating the stable magnetization orientations along the easy axis. In general the two stable magnetization orientations and will be in mutually opposite directions.

As further aspects pertaining to the illustrative embodiment shown in all four electrodes A A B and B have square cross sections although alternative embodiments may have electrodes with different cross sections such as rectangles parallelograms or some other shape. Each of the electrodes A and A of the first pair of electrodes has an edge dimension of 120 nm but this dimension is exemplary and not limiting. Each of the electrodes B and B of the second pair of electrodes has an edge dimension of 80 nm again being exemplary and not limiting. The electrode thickness is not critical and may be between 1 nm and 1000 nm for example. The thickness of the piezoelectric film is 100 nm this size being exemplary and not limiting. The dimensions of the electrodes and piezoelectric film contribute to the following features one or more of which are generally desired for generating proper stresses in the soft magnet 1 the line joining the centers of each pair of electrodes subtends a unique angle between 0 and 180 e.g. either 30 or 150 with the common major axis of the ellipses 2 the spacing between the facing edges of the electrodes in either pair is 1 2 times the electrodes edge dimension and the edge dimension is comparable to the piezoelectric film thickness and 3 no two electrodes touch and electrically short. In the ratio of the distance between the facing edges of the electrodes in a pair to the lateral dimension of the electrodes is 1.67 this is true for electrode pair AA and separately BB as well. Different dimensions for one or more of the MTJ elements the first pair of electrodes AA the second pair of electrodes BB and the piezoelectric film may be used in alternative embodiments provided the combination of elements satisfy the aforementioned features that will generate proper stresses in the magnet. In some aspects of the invention the hard layer of the MTJ is a synthetic anti ferromagnet SAF whose in plane shape anisotropy energy barrier is so high that any transferred strain cannot perceptibly rotate its magnetization. When the magnetizations of the hard and soft layers and are parallel e.g. state in the stored bit is 0 and when they are anti parallel e.g. state the stored bit is 1. 

In order to write a bit i.e. 1 or 0 to the memory element the resistance of the MTJ is first read to determine what the stored bit is. The bit is read by simply measuring the resistance of the MTJ between the soft magnetic layer and hard magnetic layer using e.g. two terminals and attached to the hard 104 and soft magnetic layers respectively. High resistance indicates the stored bit is 1 and low resistance indicates the stored bit is 0 or vice versa.

As an example consider the scenario of writing a bit . After reading what the stored bit is if it is bit no change is made to the MTJ . If the stored bit is read and it s 0 then the magnetization of soft layer is at and must be switched to . To accomplish this a voltage V is applied between the electrode pair AA and the grounded n silicon substrate . The voltage V generates a biaxial strain in the piezoelectric layer underneath the soft layer . This biaxial strain compression tension along the line joining the electrodes A and A and tension compression along the perpendicular axis is transferred to the magnetostrictive magnet by elastic coupling despite any substrate clamping and despite the fact that the electric field in the piezoelectric layer just below the magnet is approximately zero since the metallic magnet shorts out the field.

According to aspects of the exemplary memory element and in continuation of the example of writing a bit the magnetostriction coefficient of the soft layer is positive and the applied voltage between AA and ground of the polarity shown in by arrow has generated compressive stress along the line connecting electrodes A and A and tensile stress in the direction perpendicular to this line. In this case the magnetization will rotate away from towards . Once steady state is reached and the magnetization settles at some intermediate state which is roughly perpendicular to the axis joining the electrodes A and A a voltage is applied between the electrode pair BB and the grounded substrate while the voltage at AA is withdrawn timing is not critical as long the voltage at AA is not withdrawn before application of the voltage at BB . This will rotate the magnetization farther towards . Finally upon reaching the new steady state at which is roughly perpendicular to the line joining the electrode pair BB the voltage at electrode pair BB is withdrawn again timing is not critical and the magnetization vector will rotate spontaneously to the closer of the two global energy minima which is now . Thus the result is flipping the magnetization and writing the desired bit . Writing bit when the initial stored bit is 1 is accomplished by exactly the same steps although the effect is a clockwise rotation of the magnetization of the soft layer from . Note that a two phase clock is generally required to flip the bit one phase tied to electrode pair AA and the other phase tied to electrode pair BB .

In order to estimate the energy dissipated in writing the bit the minimum time required to write and the write error probability stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert calculations have been carried out. For the sake of simplicity we always consider uniaxial strain along the line joining the two electrodes of a pair AA or BB but the strain is actually biaxial resulting in tension compression along that line and compression tension along the perpendicular direction. The torques acting on the magnetization vector due to these two components add and enforce each other. Therefore per these example calculations the torque that makes the magnetization vector rotate is underestimated which makes dissipation error probability and switching delay calculations herein conservative.

Consider the case when the magnetization of the nanomagnet is initially in the stable state e.g. initial stored bit is 0 . If the electrode pair AA is activated a compressive uniaxial stress component is generated along the line joining that electrode pair which will rotate the magnetization vector to since that corresponds to the only accessible global energy minimum see the energy profile corresponding to 90 in . Although another global minimum exists at this minimum is inaccessible owing to the energy barrier between and see energy profile corresponding to 270 in the peak of the energy barrier separating and is located roughly at 35 . Thus the magnetization will rotate clockwise instead of anti clockwise in . Next deactivating AA and activating BB causes a uniaxial compressive stress component along the line joining BB that will rotate the magnetization clockwise to the new global energy minimum which is the only accessible global energy minimum the inaccessible minimum being . Finally removal of stress by deactivating BB will drive the magnetization to writing the new bit since it is the only accessible global energy minimum at that point. The other global energy minimum at is inaccessible because of the energy barrier between and . The height of this energy barrier is 20 kT which prevents the magnetization from migrating to as opposed to .

If the electrode pairs are activated in the opposite sequence i.e. BB first and then AA second the magnetization will first rotate anti clockwise from to then anti clockwise to and finally anti clockwise to see the energy profile corresponding to 270 . Therefore the sequence does not matter activating the electrode pairs in either sequence always flips the bit either by clockwise rotation or anti clockwise rotation depending on the sequence. This is true whether the bit is flipped from 0 to 1 or alternatively from 1 to 0 .

In 1000 randomly chosen switching trajectories magnetization orientation versus time are shown out of 10trajectories simulated in the presence of room temperature thermal noise. These switching trajectories are generated from stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert simulations. The initial values of and are chosen from their thermal distributions around 0 with appropriate weight the fluctuation of the magnetization around the initial orientation is simulated for 2.3 ns and then the pair AA is activated stress is turned on . The intermediate steady state 60 4 is reached by all 10trajectories within 0.45 ns after activation at which point BB is activated and then AA is deactivated. The next intermediate steady state 120 4 is reached by all trajectories within another 0.45 ns and then BB is deactivated stress is turned off . The simulation of the trajectories is continued until for every one of the 10trajectories reaches within 4 of 180 successful flip . This takes another 0.46 ns. The trajectories in are all slightly different from each other since they are probabilistic in the presence of room temperature thermal noise. One million trajectories were simulated not all shown in the figures and all of them showed successful transition from 0 to 180 implying that the switching failure probability is 

In order to avoid erroneously writing the wrong bit every time the stored bit happens to be the desired bit since the stored bit is always flipped in the write step a write cycle should include as a preliminary step a read step to determine the stored bit. If the stored bit is determined to be the same as the desired bit no writing step is performed thus no stress strain is applied and the magnetostrictive nanomagnet is not flipped. Otherwise the bit is flipped following the above described procedure. Although this requires an extra read step for every write step it saves time and energy by obviating the write step whenever the stored and desired bits are the same. Since writing is both slower and more dissipative than reading there may be an overall gain in efficiency for a plurality of write cycles comprising the read followed by write if needed steps.

The write error probability may be made negligible by writing the bit when needed then post reading i.e. verifying it to verify if it was written correctly re writing it if it was written incorrectly followed by another post read and so on until the bit is verified to have been written correctly. Alternatively a fixed number of write if needed verification steps may be carried out. The error probability after n such cycles of write if needed verify is 10since it is the probability of having written the bit incorrectly n times in a row. It is overkill to reduce the write error probability to below the static error probability of e 10 hence just four n 4 or fewer write if needed verify cycles is sufficient. As a consequence of reducing the write error probability using verification steps the write time increases. Even if the bit was written correctly in the first attempt three additional idle cycles are still needed since all bits are written simultaneously in parallel. This will increase the effective write time to 1.36 4 ns 5.44 ns again assuming that the read time is negligible compared to the write time resulting in a clock rate of 180 MHz.

The results in were generated assuming the following material parameters for the soft layer s 106 nanomagnet made of Terfenol D saturation magnetization M 8 10A m magnetostriction coefficient 3 2 90 10 Young s modulus Y 80 GPa and Gilbert damping coefficient 0.1. Terfenol D has one of the highest magnetostriction coefficients and a relatively high Young s modulus. Therefore it requires relatively low strain for magnetization rotation. We also assume strain t 3.75 10 stress 30 MPa .

The electric field needed to generate a local strain of 10in the magnet was 3 MV m. Using a linear interpolation the electric field needed to generate a strain of 3.75 10would be 1.125 MV m. Therefore the potential that needs to be applied to each of the electrode pairs AA and BB is 1.125 MV m 100 nm 112.5 mV.

The energy dissipated in writing the bit has two components 1 the internal dissipation in the magnetostrictive nanomagnet due to Gilbert damping and 2 the external CVdissipation associated with applying the voltage between the electrode pair AA or BB and the grounded substrate which act as a capacitor. Since the piezoelectric response of PZT is much faster than the magnet switching the strain generation may be viewed as instantaneous.

The larger electrodes A and A have a lateral dimension of 120 nm and the piezoelectric film made of PZT has a thickness of 100 nm. Therefore the capacitance associated with activation of a single electrode A or A is C 1.275 fF if it s assumed that the relative dielectric constant of PZT is 1000. Since the two electrodes of a pair are always activated together the external energy dissipation will be twice CVdissipation and that value is 3896 kT at room temperature V 112.5 mV . The smaller electrode pair BB has a lateral dimension of 80 nm and hence a smaller capacitance of 0.567 fF per each individual electrode B or B . Consequently the electrode pair BB dissipates CVenergy of 1733 kT. The mean internal dissipation could depend on whether the initial stored bit was 0 or 1 and we will take the higher value. In this case the higher value was 514 kT thus making the total dissipation 6143 kT which is at least three orders of magnitude less than what spin transfer torque memory STT RAM dissipates in a write cycle since STT RAM typically dissipates 10 million kT.

A scheme that also uses four different electrodes to rotate the magnetization of a magnetostrictive magnet with electrically generated strain has appeared in print C Y Liang et al. Electrical control of a single magnetoelastic domain structure on a clamped piezoelectric thin film analysis J. Appl. Phys. 116 123909 2014 . The magnet s magnetization in this case has two stable orientations that are mutually perpendicular. Activating one pair of electrodes switches the magnetization to one stable orientation and activating the other switches it to the other stable orientation. Liang et al. teach only how to rotate the magnetization by up to only 90 with strain. This was also taught in N. Tiercelin et al. J. Appl. Phys. 109 07D726 2011 . It does not teach how to flip the magnetization i.e. rotate it by complete 180 . The complete 180 rotation is far superior to 90 rotation since that allows the MTJ on resistance to be significantly different from the off resistance. Having two stable orientations which are 180 apart maximizes the difference between the two resistances of the MTJ associated with the two stable orientations. That in turn provides for much better noise tolerance when the bit is read.

The previous discussion described a non volatile magneto elastic memory element. The ensuing discussion pertains to a non volatile magneto elastic universal NAND logic gate . As mentioned earlier the described NAND gate is configurable into a NOR gate by changing the shape of the magnetic layers. For simplicity an exemplary NAND gate will be the focus of an exemplary embodiment described next. To reconfigure the NAND gate into a NOR gate one can reduce the shape anisotropy of the soft layer e.g. by making the ellipse less eccentric so that a smaller amount of stress is able to rotate the magnetization. In that case the strain produced by either one of the input voltages being high would be sufficient to rotate the magnetization and result in the NOR operation. On the other hand if the shape anisotropy of the magnet is increased e.g. by making the ellipse more eccentric then the strain produced by just one input voltage being high would not be sufficient to rotate the magnetization but the strain produced by both input voltages being high would be sufficient. In that case the NAND operation will result.

The bottom soft layer of the MTJ stack is a magnetostrictive metallic nanomagnet e.g. Terfenol D and the top hard layer is a non magnetostrictive metallic synthetic antiferromagnet SAF with large shape anisotropy. The top hard layer acts as the hard or pinned layer and the bottom soft layer acts as the soft or free layer of the MTJ . The layers and are separated by a thin insulating spacer layer . Both layers and have magnetizations with two stable orientations. In some exemplary embodiments each layer is elliptical in shape. Alternative embodiments may have layers and or which are elliptical rectangular parallelogrammatic or of any other shape having two stable magnetic orientations. In the arrow labeled m next to the coordinate system indicates any arbitrary orientation of the magnetization vector of the soft layer .

In some exemplary embodiments the soft layer consists entirely of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet. As a result descriptions herein such as magnetization orientation magnetization state or other qualities or characteristics may be made with respect to the soft layer or the magnetostrictive nanomagnet the two nouns generally referring to the same structural element. As such for exemplary embodiments discussed herein the numeric identifier may be used with a few interchangeable names for the same structural element of the MTJ including but not limited to soft layer soft magnetic layer magnetostrictive nanomagnet magnetostrictive magnet nanomagnet soft magnet or simply magnet but not hard magnet . On a similar note in some exemplary embodiments hard layer consists entirely of the hard magnet of the MTJ . Context will also make apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art whether a given description refers to the magnetostrictive nanomagnet soft layer or the hard magnet hard layer .

There is a small permanent magnetic field B directed along the hard axis e.g. minor axis of an ellipse of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet y direction which brings its two stable magnetization orientations out of the original easy axis e.g. major axis of an ellipse and aligns them along two mutually perpendicular in plane directions that lie between the original easy and hard axes . The permanent magnetic field B is provided by a magnetic field source which may be for example one or more permanent magnets that are placed either on chip or off chip. Permanent magnets are shown schematically in . The magnetic flux density generated by the permanent magnets may have a strength between 0.1 and 1 Tesla although higher and lower strengths are possible if the shape of the magnet is changed to accommodate a stronger or weaker field. The same magnetic field can also be generated with a combination of permanent magnets and the dipole field due to the hard layer acting on the soft layer. The easy axis e.g. a major axis of an ellipse of the top hard layer is aligned along one of the two stable magnetization orientations of the bottom soft layer subject to the permanent magnetic field B. The hard layer is permanently magnetized in the direction anti parallel to that orientation. Note that anti parallel means two orientations are collinear with the additional requirement that they be in opposite directions i.e. having directions which differ by substantially 180 . Parallel as used herein means that the two orientations are collinear and have the same direction i.e. having directions which differ by substantially 0 .

Two electrodes E and E are arranged on the surface of the piezoelectric layer preferably in such a way that a line LE joining their centers is substantially parallel with the orientation of an easy axis of the hard layer . In an exemplary embodiment the electrodes lateral dimensions e.g. width and length the separation between their edges which face one another and the piezoelectric film thickness are all approximately equal. The piezoelectric film may be e.g. a PZT film.

The two electrodes E and E are electrically shorted. Whenever an electrostatic potential difference appears between the electrode pair EE and the silicon substrate e.g. between node M and node N in the piezoelectric layer is strained. Since the electrode in plane dimensions are comparable to the piezoelectric film thickness the out of plane d expansion contraction and the in plane d contraction expansion of the piezoelectric regions underneath the electrodes E and E produce a highly localized strain field under the electrodes. Furthermore since the electrodes are separated by a distance approximately equal to the piezoelectric layer film thickness the interaction between the local strain fields below the electrodes leads to a biaxial strain in the piezoelectric layer underneath the soft magnet of bottom soft layer . This biaxial strain compression tension along the line joining the electrodes E and E and tension compression along the perpendicular axis is transferred to the soft magnetostrictive magnet in elastic contact with the piezoelectric layer causing a rotation of its magnetization. This occurs despite any substrate clamping and despite the fact that the electric field in the piezoelectric layer just below the magnet is approximately zero. Some of the generated strain may reach the hard magnet of the top hard layer but since the hard magnet is very anisotropic in shape and is not magnetostrictive its magnetization will not rotate perceptibly.

Simply by selecting the polarity of the voltage between nodes M and N it is possible to make the system deterministically visit either state B or state C and orient the magnetization along either of the two stable states and respectively. The nanomagnet will remain in the chosen state after the voltage is withdrawn. This is used as the basis for deterministically writing the bit or in non volatile memory irrespective of the initial stored bit.

According to an aspect of the invention a gate may be operated as an NAND gate as follows. The binary logic bits and are encoded in voltage levels Vand V 2 respectively. The bias voltage is set to V 5V 12. Every logic operation is preceded by a RESET operation which sets the resistance Rof the MTJ to a high state represented herein as either R or R these being interchangeable this state being characterized by the condition that the magnetizations of the hard layer and the soft layer are substantially anti parallel. The two input voltages Vand V are set to a predetermined value in this case V 4 . The voltage at node M with respect to ground may be calculated by superposition and is V 6. Since the bias voltage Vis set to 5V 12 the voltage at node N is fixed at 5V 12. Thus during RESET the voltage drop potential difference Vappearing between the nodes M and N across the piezoelectric film in is V V 4. The negative voltage stresses strains the piezoelectric film . This strain is transferred to the magnetostrictive nanomagnet resulting in in plane tensile stress along a direction parallel with the line LE joining the centers of the two electrodes E and E and in plane compressive stress in the in plane direction perpendicular to line LE. This moves the system to state B in the energy profile in or keeps the system at state B if this is the initial state prior to the start of the RESET operation . At state B the magnetization vector of the soft layer is nearly substantially anti parallel to the magnetization of the hard magnet e.g. SAF of the top hard layer . That is to say the magnetization vector of the soft layer is substantially oriented in the direction . It is not necessary that the magnetization vector of the soft layer be exactly anti parallel to the magnetization of the hard layer. This makes the resistance of the MTJ high . When the input voltages Vand Vare subsequently withdrawn by for example grounding the inputs Vdrops nearly to zero provided resistors R are of much greater resistance than the resistance of the piezoelectric layer . As a result of Vsubstantially dropping to zero the stress in the magnet relaxes but the system remains at state B with the magnetization oriented substantially along . Consequently the MTJ is always left in the high resistance state after the RESET step is completed. By applying Kirchoff s voltage law in the output loop one arrives at

In the logic operation stage the following scenarios may occur 1 both inputs are low e.g. V V V 2 so V V 12 2 either but not both inputs are low e.g. V Vand V V 2 or vice versa so V V 12 and 3 both inputs are high e.g. V V V so V V 4 . These three scenarios as well as a RESET operation are illustrated schematically in . The potential energy profiles for these scenarios are shown in .

When both inputs are low V V V 2 therefore V i.e. the voltage at node M with respect to ground is V 3 and Vis V 12. This negative voltage causes tensile stress in the magnetostrictive nanomagnet and produces a global energy minimum at B B . Since the RESET operation left the system at state B i.e. magnetization of soft magnet in orientation the magnetization vector of the nanomagnet barely rotates i.e. it does not rotate or rotates by an insubstantial amount the magnetizations of the hard and soft layers and of the MTJ remain anti parallel and the resistance of the MTJ remains high. Therefore from Equation 1 V V. In other words when both inputs are bit the output is bit .

When one input is high and the other low V V 2 and V V or equivalently V Vand V V 2 making V V 2 and V V 12. This positive voltage causes a compressive stress in the magnetostrictive nanomagnet but is insufficient in magnitude to rotate the magnetization vector of the nanomagnet by overcoming the shape anisotropy energy barrier of the elliptical magnet. The global energy minimum is B which is closer to the stable magnetization orientation . However there is still a local energy minimum close to B i.e. approximately at state B . As shown in a potential energy barrier separates minima B and B which the system is incapable of crossing. As a result the system remains stuck in the metastable state corresponding to the local minimum near B and the magnetization of magnet does not rotate perceptibly. Hence once again the resistance of MTJ remains high and the output voltage remains V V. In other words when one input bit is 1 and the other input bit is 0 the output is bit . After the inputs are removed e.g. by grounding Vand V the strain in the magnet relaxes and the magnetization settles into the only accessible stable state namely state B. It remains there in perpetuity thereby implementing non volatile logic i.e. memory of the last output state is retained .

When both inputs are high V V V. In that case V 2V 3 and V V 4. This stresses strains the piezoelectric layer and by elastic contact the magnetostrictive nanomagnet . The strain in the nanomagnet becomes in plane compressive in the direction parallel with the line LE joining the centers of the two electrodes E and E and in plane tensile in the direction perpendicular to the line joining the two electrodes. The stress strain generated by the magnitude of the positive voltage of Vis sufficient to overcome the shape anisotropy barrier and change the potential energy profile. Now the global energy minimum becomes D . The system moves to D since there is no local minimum where the system can get stuck. In other words there is no energy barrier between states B and D that prevents the system from shifting all the way from state B to state D once the global energy minimum has become D . Consequently the magnetization vector of magnet rotates 90 to an orientation nearly perpendicular to the magnetization of the top hard layer . Specifically the magnetization rotates to state in . The resistance of the MTJ then drops by 50 i.e. to R 2 since the resistance is approximately proportional to cos 2 where is the angle between the magnetizations of the magnets of the hard layer and soft layer provided that the spin injection and detection efficiencies of the magnet spacer interfaces are 100 if the efficiencies are less than 100 the logic levels will be encoded in Vand xV where x 0.5 . From Equation 1 the output voltage drops to V 2. Thus when both inputs are bit the output is bit . Subsequent removal of the input voltages Vand V e.g. by grounding them drives the system to state C where the resistance of MTJ remains low thereby retaining memory of the last output state i.e. thus exhibiting non volatility .

In order to choose the value of V which ultimately determines the amount of dissipation switching delay and energy delay product the compressive stress generated by V V 4 needs to be sufficient to overcome the shape anisotropy barrier in the soft layer which may be e.g. elliptical and rotate its magnetization. However compressive stress generated by V V 12 needs to be insufficient to overcome the barrier. In short there is a predetermined threshold for compressive and or tensile stress strain. When the threshold whether for tensile or compressive stress or strain is exceeded the magnetization vector of the soft layer is driven to the appropriate stable orientation. Compressive strain which exceeds a first threshold causes the magnetization vector of the soft layer to maintain or rotate to one of the two stable orientations and tensile strain which exceeds a second threshold causes the magnetization vector to maintain or rotate to the other of the two stable orientations. If a threshold is not exceeded the magnetization vector does not flip. The thresholds are determined by the shape anisotropy material composition and processing i.e. the growth manufacturing method of the soft magnetic layer as well as the magnitude and direction of the permanent magnetic field B. The amount of stress generated by a certain voltage and the effective shape anisotropy barrier in the presence of the permanent magnetic field B depend on many parameters such as the strength of the magnetic field B the shape and size of the magnetostrictive nanomagnet the electrode size of E E and their placement the thickness of piezoelectric layer and the piezoelectric and magnetostrictive materials. For the exemplary choices made for the calculations and descriptions herein it was found from stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert simulations of magnetodynamics in the presence of room temperature thermal noise that a compressive stress of 30 MPa rotates the magnetization with greater than 99.999999 probability and switches the MTJ resistance from high to low in the presence of room temperature thermal fluctuations while a compressive stress of 10 MPa has less than 10probability of rotating the magnetization and switching the MTJ resistance. Therefore in this exemplary illustrative embodiment V V 4 needs to generate a stress of 30 MPa compressive strain is negative . The material chosen for the magnetostrictive material is Terfenol D because of its large magnetostriction. From the Young s modulus of Terfenol D it was calculated that the strain required to generate a stress of 30 MPa is 3.75 10. To generate this amount of strain the strength of the electric field in the PZT of the piezoelectric layer between the shorted electrodes E E and the n Si substrate should be 1.125 MV m. This value is well below the breakdown field of PZT. Since the PZT layer thickness is 100 nm the voltage Vneeded to generate the strain of 3.75 10will be 112.5 mV. Hence V 4V 0.45 V in this exemplary embodiment.

The error probability associated with operation of a gate the internal energy dissipated during switching and the switching delay all in the presence of room temperature thermal noise is calculated from stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert simulations of the magnetization dynamics and that probability was found to exceed 99.999999 in all cases. First expressions are written for the various contributions to the potential energy of the magnetostrictive layer. Then the effective torques due to these contributions are found as well as the random torque due to thermal noise. These torques rotate the magnetization vector. The entire procedure is described next.

As shown in the coordinate system is defined such that the soft magnet s easy major axis lies along the z axis and the in plane hard minor axis lies along the y axis. Application of a positive or negative voltage between the electrode pair and the conducting n Si substrate i.e. application of a non zero voltage V generates biaxial strain leading to compression expansion along the z axis and expansion compression along the y axis. The latter two axes are the axes of and as is apparent in . The angle between the z and z axes is which is therefore the angle between the major axes of the hard and soft layers.

To derive general expressions for the instantaneous potential energies of the nanomagnet due to shape anisotropy stress anisotropy and the static magnetic field the primed axes of reference x y z were used and the magnetization orientation of the single domain magnetostrictive magnet was represented in spherical coordinates with representing the polar angle and representing the azimuthal angle. The magnitude of the magnetization is invariant in time and space owing to the macrospin assumption. Note that the symbols and are used interchangeably herein.

Using the rotated coordinate system see the shape anisotropy energy E t of the nanomagnet can be written as 

The potential energy E t due to the static magnetic flux density B applied along the in plane hard axis is given by cos sin sin sin cos Equation 3 

The total potential energy of the nanomagnet at any instant of time t is therefore . Equation 5 The above result is used to plot the energy profiles as a function of for 90 in .

The time evolution of the polar and azimuthal angles of the magnetization vector in the rotated coordinate frame is determined under the actions of the torques due to the shape anisotropy stress anisotropy magnetic field and thermal noise.

The torques that rotate the magnetization of the shape anisotropic magnet in the presence of stress can be written as

At non zero temperatures thermal noise generates a random magnetic field h t with Cartesian components h t h t h t that produces a random thermal torque which can be expressed as circumflex over circumflex over where cos cos cos sin sin sin cos . Equation 7 

In order to find the temporal evolution of the magnetization vector under the vector sum of the different torques mentioned above we solve the stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert LLG equation 

From the above equation we can derive two coupled equations for the temporal evolution of the polar and azimuthal angles of the magnetization vector 

The permanent magnetic field B 0.1305 T applied along the y direction hard axis of the soft magnet makes the two stable states of the soft magnet s magnetization align along 46.8 and 133.2 leaving a separation angle of 86.3 between them. Thermal noise however will make the magnetization of the soft magnet fluctuate around these two orientations and in order to determine the thermal distribution around which is where the RESET operation leaves the magnetization the last two equations are solved in the absence of any stress by starting with the initial state 46.8 and 90 and obtaining the final values of and by running the simulation for a long time. This process is repeated for 100 million switching trajectories. A histogram is then generated from these 100 million switching trajectories for the final values of and which yields the thermal distribution around .

To study the switching dynamics under the influence of stress 100 million switching trajectories were generated in the stressed state of the magnet by solving Equations 9 and 10 again using a time step of 1 ps. This time the initial magnetization orientation for each of the 10trajectories is chosen from the thermal distributions generated in the previous step with the appropriate weighting since the RESET step always leaves the magnetization around state . The simulation is continued for 1.5 ns. It was found that when the stress is either tensile 10 MPa corresponding to V V 12 or compressive but weak 10 MPa corresponding to V V 12 the magnetization s polar angle returns to within 4 of 46.8 in 1.3 ns or less for every one of the 10trajectories. After 1.3 ns the stress is removed abruptly and the simulation is continued for an additional 0.2 ns to ensure that the final state does not change. It did not change for any of the 10trajectories. This procedure indicates that when the inputs to the logic gate are both low or one is high and the other is low the magnetization of the soft layer of the MTJ does not rotate and the MTJ resistance remains high with 99.999999 probability. This fulfills the requirements of an NAND gate with 99.999999 probability.

In the case of one input low and one input high what prevents rotation from to is the energy barrier of 23.63 kT between these two states. This barrier is high enough to reduce the switching probability to below 10.

When both inputs are high a compressive stress of 30 MPa is generated in the magnetostrictive magnet. Once again the initial orientations of the magnetization from the thermal distribution are chosen around which is where the RESET step leaves the magnet and 100 million switching trajectories are generated as before. This time approaches within 4 of final state 133.2 in 1.3 ns or less. The simulation was continued for an additional 0.2 ns to confirm that once the magnetization reaches the vicinity of it settles around that orientation and does not return to the neighborhood of the initial orientation . This procedure was repeated for 10times with the result that every single switching trajectory behaved in the above manner. Therefore it is concluded that when the inputs to the logic gate are both high the magnetization of the soft layer of the MTJ does rotate and the MTJ resistance goes low with 99.999999 probability. That fulfills the remaining requirement of an NAND gate with 99.999999 probability.

The above described behavior and operation of gate translates to NAND logic. Since there is no substantial electric field in the piezoelectric layer directly under the MTJ stack it is acceptable to neglect any voltage drop in the piezoelectric layer between the magnetostrictive magnet and the silicon substrate . Therefore V IR where Ris the resistance of the MTJ stack . As used herein the terms MTJ stack and MTJ are interchangeable. The biasing constant current source Iis set to V R where Ris the resistance of MTJ in the high resistance state. Therefore whenever MTJ is in the high resistance state the output voltage is V and whenever MTJ is in the low resistance state the output voltage is IR V 2 because R R 2 Ris the resistance of MTJ in the low resistance state . Since the logic bit is encoded in voltage Vand logic bit is encoded in the voltage level V 2 we find that the output bit is 1 when either input bit is 0 and the output bit is 0 when both input bits are 1. In other words we have successfully implemented a NAND gate see the truth table shown in Table 1 below .

Gate fulfills one or more and in a preferred embodiment all of the following requirements of a Boolean logic gate 

a. Concatenability For concatenability the output voltage of a preceding gate has to be fed directly to the input of a succeeding gate. This requires that V high V high IR V and V low V low IR V 2 which is easily achieved by choosing I V R. In some embodiments the logic levels may be encoded in Vand xV 0.5 x 1 in which case the resistive network at the input side and Vshould be adjusted accordingly. Such adjustments of resistances for resistors R and the voltage for Vis within the skill of one of ordinary skill in the art once such person is familiarized with the teachings herein.

b. Non linearity Since the resistance of MTJ has only two values i.e. high and low the gate is inherently non linear.

c. Isolation between input and output The output voltage Vcannot change the input voltage levels Vand Vof the same gate in any way. This results in isolation.

d. Gain Gain is ensured when the energy to switch the output bit does not come from the input energy but rather comes from an independent power source. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the energy to switch the output bit is supplied by the constant current source I. Whenever the inputs Vand Vswitch the resistance of MTJ be it low to high or high to low the independent current source Iswitches V. As such gate has gain.

This is a notable and consequential difference from prior art which use magnetic fields to switch gates. When magnetic fields are used for switching neighboring gates must be spaced relatively far apart on the substrate to ensure that fringing magnetic fields from one gate do not influence a neighboring gate. This limitation is overcome by exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. Because magnetic fields are not used to switch specific gates gates do not have to be spaced far apart. As a result gates can be placed close to each other thereby increasing the gate density. Gates can scale all the way down to the superparamagnetic limit of the nanomagnets at the operating temperature e.g. room temperature .

g. Error resilience Two types of errors afflict non volatile gate operation i static errors caused by the magnetization of the soft magnetostrictive layer flipping spontaneously owing to thermal noise thereby switching the output bit erroneously when the inputs are grounded and V V0 and ii dynamic errors that occur when the output switches to an incorrect state in response to the inputs changing. The static error probability is determined by the energy barrier separating the two stable magnetization states in the soft layer . The minimum barrier height is determined by the strength of the magnetic field B applied with the permanent magnets the dimensions of the soft magnet and material parameters. In the case of a gate with specific dimensions as provided above as an illustrative exemplary embodiment the minimum barrier height was 69.26 kT at room temperature giving a static error probability of e 10per spontaneous switching attempt. In other words the retention time of an output bit in an exemplary non volatile logic gate at room temperature is 1 f e 3.8 10years since the attempt frequency fin nanomagnets will very rarely exceed 1 THz. In other words gate is indeed non volatile. Dynamic gate errors however are much more probable than static errors and accrue from two sources 1 thermal noise causing erratic magnetization dynamics that drive magnets to the wrong stable magnetization state resulting in bit error and 2 complicated clocking schemes that require precise timing synchronization for gate operation and whose failure cause bit errors.

The gate in Behin Aein B. Datta D. Salahuddin S. Datta S. Proposal for an all spin logic device with built in memory. 5 266 269 2010 works with Bennett clocking which is predicated on the principle of placing the output magnet in its maximum energy state and then waiting for the input signal to drive it to the desired one among its two minimum energy states to produce the correct output bit. This strategy is risky since the maximum energy state is also maximally unstable. While perched on the energy maximum thermal fluctuations can drive the output magnet to the wrong minimum energy state with unacceptably high probability resulting in unacceptable bit error rates. A later modification Srinivasan S. Sarkar A. Behin Aein B. Datta S. All spin logic device with in built non reciprocity. 47 4026 4032 2011 overcame this shortcoming but at the expense of much increased energy dissipation. Moreover the logic gate disclosed by Srinivasan et al. also requires a complicated clocking sequence without which it cannot operate. In contrast exemplary embodiments for a logic gate as disclosed herein never place any element of the gate at the maximum energy state no Bennett clocking and no complicated clocking sequence is needed.

An important consideration for Boolean logic is logic level restoration. If noise broadens the input voltage levels Vand V 2 thereby making it harder to distinguish between bits and the gate restores the distinguishability by ensuring that the output voltage levels Vare not broadened and remain well separated. To achieve this effect the transfer characteristic Vversus V of the gate when used as an inverter must show a sharp transition. When the two inputs of the NAND gate are shorted with one another the gate behaves like a NOT gate inverter . If the input voltage to the inverter is between V 12 and V 4 e.g. the compressive stress is between 10 MPa and 30 MPa the energy profile becomes such that the magnetization of the soft layer may rotate to an intermediate state between and and fluctuate around that orientation because of thermal noise. A time average over the fluctuations determines the steady state mean orientation at that input voltage V. From this Rand V VR Rare calculated. In order to do this the stress generated by the Vcorresponding to the input is calculated. The stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert simulation is then run to determine the steady state magnetization orientation and V. The purpose of this exercise is to find the transfer characteristic Vversus V. The transition range was determined to be from 0.38 V to 0.41 V a range of 0.03 V of input voltage whereas the logic levels are 0.225 V and 0.45 V in the exemplary embodiment. This portends excellent logic level restoration capability. In the high state the input voltage can drift down by 0.04 volts and still produce the correct output state while in the low state the input voltage can drift up by 0.155 volts and still produce the correct output state. The transfer characteristic is shown in . The evident sharpness of the transition allows for excellent logic level restoration capability.

A gate such as is shown in has unprecedented energy efficiency that far exceeds that of prior non volatile NAND gates. There are four contributions to the energy dissipated in this logic gate during a logic operation internal dissipation due to Gilbert damping that occurs while the magnetostrictive layer s magnetization switches rotates energy C V dissipated in turning on off the potential V V 4 112.5 mV abruptly or non adiabatically during the RESET stage or logic operation stage where C is the capacitance between the shorted pair of electrodes EE and the n Si substrate the energies dissipated in the resistors R and the maximum energy V Rdissipated in the MTJ when the output is high the energy dissipated when the output is low is V 4R V 2R which is 50 lower . The energies dissipated in the resistors R are made arbitrarily small by choosing arbitrarily high values for R hence this contribution is negligible and may be treated as zero. The energy dissipated due to Gilbert damping in a magnet is given by

The next component is the C V dissipation. In the exemplary example described electrodes E and E have dimensions 100 nm 100 nm and the thickness of the piezoelectric layer is 100 nm. Thus the capacitance between either electrode E or E and the substrate is C 0.88 fF assuming that the piezoelectric layer is PZT and the relative dielectric constant of PZT is 1000. The voltage V V 4 112.5 mV . Since we have a pair of electrodes EE the dissipation will be roughly twice C V . That value is calculated to be 2688 kT.

Finally the maximum energy dissipation due to current flow through the MTJ stack is considered. This is the bias current Ineeded to convert the MTJ resistance state to an output voltage state that encodes the logic bit or . Note that the bias current is always flowing and hence results in standby energy dissipation which would be unacceptable in certain applications where the circuit is mostly dormant and wakes up to perform an operation infrequently e.g. cell phones that wake up and perform a function only when a call or message is received . However there are many applications where the circuit is constantly busy and seldom if ever in a standby mode e.g. medical applications where the implanted device constantly monitors and processes signals . For such applications standby dissipation is a not a serious concern.

In order to calculate this energy dissipation let us assume that for the sake of adequate noise margin the bias current Ican be no less than 1 pA. This restricts Rto V I 0.45 10ohms. The MTJ s resistance will increase super linearly almost exponentially with the spacer layer thickness since current flows by tunneling through this layer so the above resistance is not difficult to achieve. The resulting maximum energy dissipation Vt Ris 0.28 kT which is negligible. Consequently in a gate operation the maximum energy dissipation is 2688 316 kT 3004 kT 12.5 aJ which is comparable to that of low power CMOS based NAND gates. Notably however the latter is volatile while the present gate is non volatile. The energy dissipation of a gate is almost two orders of magnitude smaller than that in other magnetic non volatile logic gates. The overall energy delay product 1.6 10J s is at least one order of magnitude superior to that of any other magnetic non volatile logic gate while the associated error probability of 10is also vastly superior.

Logic gates such as is shown in and may have applications such as but not limited to medically implanted processors such as pacemakers or devices implanted in an epileptic patient s brain that monitor brain signals and warn of an impending seizure. Such devices need to wake up and process signals immediately after receipt of an erratic pulse with minimal boot time hence there is a need for non volatile logic. Such devices also need to dissipate very little energy so that they may be powered by the patient s movements e.g. head movements and not require a battery. Logic gates such as is shown in are well tailored for such applications as well as human powered wearable computing devices in general.

The following is one exemplary method of manufacturing a gate such as is shown in although manufacture of such a gate is not limited to the following description and may be subject to variations and some differences depending on the implementation of a particular embodiment. To fabricate the gate a piezoelectric PZT thin film 100 nm thick is deposited on a conducting n Silicon substrate which is grounded through a bias voltage V. A skewed MTJ stack is fabricated on top of the PZT film. The bottom layer material is chosen as Terfenol D because of its large magnetostriction 900 ppm . The magnetostriction is positive which tends to make the magnetization align along the direction of tensile stress and perpendicular to the direction of compressive stress. The angle between the major axes of the two elliptical nanomagnets is determined by the angular separation between and . In the embodiment shown in the angle between and is approximately 90 and the angle between the major axes of the two elliptical nanomagnets is approximately 30 . The current source Iis connected across the MTJ stack. The magnetostrictive nanomagnet has a major axis of 100 nm minor axis of 42 nm and thickness of 16.5 nm which ensures that it has a single ferromagnetic domain.

To evaluate the dynamic error probability the magnetization dynamics of the soft magnetostrictive magnet induced by stress in the presence of thermal noise is modeled by the stochastic Landau Lifshitz Gilbert equation. Above results are presented of simulations to show that if V 0.45V then switching is accomplished in 1.3 ns and the dynamic error probability associated with incorrect switching is less than 10in every gate operation if the voltage is kept on for 1.3 ns. Therefore the gate can work at a clock frequency of 1 1.3 ns 0.75 GHz with an error probability 99.999999 and the probability of it being low when either input is low is 99.999999 fidelity. This number may be unimpressive if used to describe a transistor based volatile logic gate. However in regard to magnetic non volatile logic gates it is remarkable. Known non volatile magnetic logic gates typically have very high error probabilities. The degree of error resilience in a gate may be sufficient for use in stochastic logic architectures.

In an embodiment the logic gate is usable as an artificial neuron that performs a threshold function. There are many input terminals instead of just two and the resistors connected to the input terminals e.g. V V are R R . . . R instead of all being R. Using superposition we obtain that the voltage Vthat is dropped over the piezoelectric layer is given by

While the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited to the embodiments as described above but should further include all modifications and equivalents thereof within the spirit and scope of the description provided herein.

