---

title: Presentation-based quality determination
abstract: A solution for evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document in which one or more presentation attributes of a physical reproduction (e.g., a printed copy) of the electronic document are considered. A perceived quality of the physical reproduction of the electronic document can be determined using a set of properties of the electronic document and the one or more presentation attributes. The perceived quality can be utilized in various ways as part of a printing process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111202&OS=09111202&RS=09111202
owner: Mimeo.com, Inc.
number: 09111202
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
The current application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 152 636 titled Presentation Based Quality Determination which was filed on 3 Jun. 2011 and which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The disclosure relates generally to document printing and more particularly to determining a perceived quality of a printed document.

Frequently a print provider will issue an image quality warning based on static information of the image. For example a print provider may require a minimum quality threshold of 300 dots per inch dpi for the horizontal resolution of an image to be printed. When an image quality is determined to be below the threshold the print provider can issue a warning or reject the image for printing. While a particular threshold can vary among providers it is typically determined by best practices and or by the experience of the print provider. Such static quality thresholds do not take into consideration an intended use of the printed image.

Aspects of the invention provide a solution for evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document in which one or more presentation attributes of a physical reproduction e.g. a printed copy of the electronic document are considered. A perceived quality of the physical reproduction of the electronic document can be determined using a set of properties of the electronic document and the one or more presentation attributes. The perceived quality can be utilized in various ways as part of a printing process.

A first aspect of the invention provides a computer implemented method comprising obtaining at least one presentation attribute of a physical reproduction of an electronic document during an intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document and determining a perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document in response to obtaining the at least one presentation attribute wherein the determining is based on at least one of a set of electronic document properties corresponding to the electronic document and the at least one presentation attribute of the intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document.

A second aspect of the invention provides a computer system comprising a component for evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document by performing a method of obtaining at least one presentation attribute of a physical reproduction of the electronic document during an intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document and determining a perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document in response to obtaining the at least one presentation attribute wherein the determining is based on at least one of a set of electronic document properties corresponding to the electronic document and the at least one presentation attribute of the intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document.

A third aspect of the invention provides a computer program comprising program code embodied in at least one computer readable medium which when executed enables a computer system to implement a method of evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document the method comprising obtaining at least one presentation attribute of a physical reproduction of the electronic document during an intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document and determining a perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document in response to obtaining the at least one presentation attribute wherein the determining is based on at least one of a set of electronic document properties corresponding to the electronic document and the at least one presentation attribute of the intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document.

A fourth aspect of the invention provides a method of generating a computer system the method comprising providing a computer system for evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document wherein the computer system is configured to perform a method comprising obtaining at least one presentation attribute of a physical reproduction of the electronic document during an intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document and determining a perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document in response to obtaining the at least one presentation attribute wherein the determining is based on at least one of a set of electronic document properties corresponding to the electronic document and the at least one presentation attribute of the intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document.

A fifth aspect of the invention provides a method comprising at least one of providing or receiving a copy of a computer program that is encoded in a set of data signals wherein the computer program enables a computer system to implement a method of evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document the method comprising obtaining at least one presentation attribute of a physical reproduction of the electronic document during an intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document and determining a perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document in response to obtaining the at least one presentation attribute wherein the determining is based on at least one of a set of electronic document properties corresponding to the electronic document and the at least one presentation attribute of the intended use of the physical reproduction of the electronic document.

Other aspects of the invention provide methods systems program products and methods of using and generating each which include and or implement some or all of the actions described herein. The illustrative aspects of the invention are designed to solve one or more of the problems herein described and or one or more other problems not discussed.

It is noted that the drawings may not be to scale. The drawings are intended to depict only typical aspects of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements between the drawings.

As indicated above aspects of the invention provide a solution for evaluating a printing configuration for an electronic document in which one or more presentation attributes of a physical reproduction e.g. a printed copy of the electronic document are considered. A perceived quality of the physical reproduction of the electronic document can be determined using a set of properties of the electronic document and the one or more presentation attributes. The perceived quality can be utilized in various ways as part of a printing process. As used herein unless otherwise noted the term set means one or more i.e. at least one and the phrase any solution means any now known or later developed solution.

Turning to the drawings shows an illustrative environment for determining a perceived quality for a physical reproduction of an electronic document according to an embodiment. To this extent environment includes a computer system which can perform a process described herein in order to determine the perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document . In particular computer system is shown including an analysis program which makes computer system operable to determine the perceived quality for the physical reproduction of the electronic document by performing a process described herein.

Computer system is shown including a processing component e.g. one or more processors a storage component e.g. a storage hierarchy an input output I O component e.g. one or more I O interfaces and or devices and a communications pathway . In general processing component executes program code such as analysis program which is at least partially fixed in storage component . While executing program code processing component can process data which can result in reading and or writing transformed data from to storage component and or I O component for further processing. Pathway provides a communications link between each of the components in computer system . I O component can comprise one or more human I O devices which enable a human user to interact with computer system and or one or more communications devices to enable a system user to communicate with computer system using any type of communications link. To this extent computer system can manage a set of interfaces e.g. graphical user interface s application program interface and or the like that enable human and or system users to interact with analysis program . Furthermore computer system can manage e.g. store retrieve create manipulate organize present etc. the data such as analysis data using any solution.

In any event computer system can comprise one or more general purpose computing articles of manufacture e.g. computing devices capable of executing program code such as analysis program installed thereon. As used herein it is understood that program code means any collection of instructions in any language code or notation that cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular action either directly or after any combination of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form and or c decompression. To this extent analysis program can be embodied as any combination of system software and or application software.

Computer system can perform a process described herein using a set of task based components each of which is configured to perform a set of tasks as part of the process. Furthermore analysis program can be implemented using a set of modules . In this case a module can comprise program code which enables computer system to perform a set of tasks as part of the process and can be separately developed and or implemented apart from other portions of analysis program . As used herein the term component means any configuration of hardware with or without software which implements the functionality described in conjunction therewith using any solution while the term module means program code that enables a computer system to implement the actions described in conjunction therewith using any solution. When fixed in a storage component of a computer system that includes a processing component a module is a substantial portion of a component that implements the actions. Regardless it is understood that two or more components modules and or systems may share some all of their respective hardware and or software. Additionally it is understood that some of the functionality discussed herein may not be implemented or additional functionality may be included as part of computer system and or analysis program .

It is understood that computer system and analysis program are only representative of various possible equivalent computer systems that may perform a process described herein. To this extent in other embodiments the functionality provided by computer system and analysis program can be at least partially implemented by one or more computing devices that include any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware with or without program code. In each embodiment the hardware and program code if included can be created using standard engineering and programming techniques respectively.

When computer system comprises multiple computing devices each computing device can have only a portion of the components e.g. one or more modules of analysis program associated therewith. Furthermore the computing devices can communicate over any type of communications link. Similarly while performing a process described herein computer system can communicate with one or more other computer systems such as a user using any type of communications link. In either case the communications link can comprise any combination of various types of optical fiber wired and or wireless links comprise any combination of one or more types of networks and or utilize any combination of various types of transmission techniques and protocols.

As discussed herein analysis program enables computer system to determine a perceived quality for a physical reproduction of an electronic document . While referred to herein as a document it is understood that the electronic document can be embodied as any collection of electronic data. For example the electronic document can comprise any number of one or more data files. Additionally the electronic document can comprise data stored in any data storage format. For example the electronic document can include data stored using the page description language PDL format a raster image format and or the like. The electronic document can store data which can be desired to be printed on various types of media for various purposes including for example a poster a banner a mounted medium a billboard an office document an advertisement and or the like.

In an embodiment the computer system can comprise a plurality of format specific agents each of which is configured to determine e.g. calculate retrieve and or the like the set of electronic document properties A from electronic documents including data stored in a corresponding data format. For example an illustrative format specific agent can comprise a PDL parser which is configured to parse electronic documents storing data using the PDL format to acquire calculate the set of electronic document properties A.

The electronic document properties A can define various characteristics of the electronic document which are related to printing the electronic document . Illustrative electronic document properties A can include for example a number of pages a number of images image resolution information document data dimensions e.g. height and width in pixels electronic color space information font information and or the like.

Additionally computer system e.g. a printing component B can acquire a set of printing attributes B corresponding to a printing configuration for printing the electronic document using any solution. To this extent the computer system can provide a user interface which can enable a human user to define some or all of the printing attributes B. Similarly the computer system can interact with a system user such as a print driver or an intermediate system which communicates the printing attributes B to the computer system . Furthermore the computer system can determine some or all of the set of printing attributes B from data stored in the electronic document . For example when the electronic document comprises a PDL document some or all of the set of printing attributes B can be included in the PDL document.

The set of printing attributes B can include various data related to printing the electronic document . For example the set of printing attributes B can include a set of media attributes e.g. paper type color physical dimensions and or the like color black and white grayscale printing any desired transformations to the data stored in the electronic document e.g. zoom in out stretch brightness contrast anti aliasing and or the like a set of attributes of a target printer for performing the printing binding information a number of copies and or the like.

In any event computer system can determine a set of physical document properties C from the printing attributes B and or electronic document properties A. The set of physical document properties C can define various properties of a printed copy of the electronic document . For example the set of physical document properties C can define a resolution of the printed copy a physical size in the printed copy of each pixel of data from the electronic document data corresponding to region s of the media that will include printed data physical color space information and or the like.

Furthermore the set of physical document properties C can include a page model of one or more of a set of pages in the printed copy. To this extent computer system can generate the page model based on the electronic document the electronic document properties A and or the physical document properties C using any solution. In an embodiment the page model comprises a representation of the printed copy of a page of the electronic document . In a more particular embodiment the representation comprises a bitmap representation of the page. Alternatively the representation can comprise a set of PDL commands a vector graphic representation and or the like.

Computer system e.g. a quality component C also can evaluate one or more of the electronic document properties A and or physical document properties C and a set of presentation attributes D to dynamically determine a perceived quality E of a printed copy of the electronic document . Computer system can obtain the set of presentation attributes D using any solution. For example computer system can manage a user interface including a set of user interface controls application programming interface and or the like which enables a user to explicitly provide the set of presentation attributes D for processing by the computer system . Furthermore computer system can use a default value for one or more of the set of presentation attributes D. The default value can be selected based on for example one or more physical document properties C such as a size and or type of the media a specified intended use for the printed copy and or the like. In an embodiment computer system can determine a value for one or more of the presentation attributes D that maximizes the perceived quality E of the printed copy of the electronic document and assign the default value for the one or more of the presentation attributes D to the corresponding determined value.

Referring to the set of presentation attributes D can comprise one or more attributes corresponding to a viewing environment during an intended use F of the physical reproduction e.g. printed copy of the electronic document . For example the set of presentation attributes D can include one or more attributes corresponding to a typical location of an observer with respect to the printed copy of the electronic document during the intended use F. Such observer location related attributes can include for example an approximate distance of an observer from the printed copy a relative position of the observer with respect to the printed copy e.g. expressed as a horizontal angle horizontal distance from a designated location on the printed copy and or the like a viewing angle between the observer and a designated location e.g. a center point on the printed copy e.g. expressed as a vertical angle vertical distance from a designated location on the printed copy and or the like and or the like.

The set of presentation attributes D also can include one or more attributes corresponding to a display environment during the intended use F of the printed copy. The display related attributes can include for example an attribute of the ambient environment e.g. outdoor indoor lighted indoor dark and or the like a set of attributes corresponding to a light source for the printed copy and or display environment e.g. a brightness of the light source a type of the light source a color of the light source directed or ambient illumination of the printed copy a relative location of the light source to the printed copy e.g. backlit directed from above below horizontal and or vertical angles and or the like and or the like a visibility of the display environment e.g. is visibility in the display environment hindered by smoke fog and or the like and or the like.

The computer system can determine the perceived quality E using any solution. For example the computer system can generate a presentation model G e.g. a bitmap based on one or more of the presentation attributes D and the page model for a corresponding page of the printed copy e.g. by adjusting one or more aspects of the page model based on one or more of the presentation attributes D. In particular based on the observer location related attributes the computer system can enlarge reduce a size of the page model to generate the presentation model G. Furthermore based on the relative position and or viewing angle of the observer the computer system can skew the page model in a horizontal and or vertical direction to generate the presentation model G. Similarly based on one or more of the display related attributes computer system can increase decrease a contrast and or brightness of the page model to account for a visibility and or brightness of the display environment adjust a hue of the page model to account for use of a colored light source in the display environment and or the like to generate the presentation model G.

Computer system can analyze the presentation model G to determine a perceived quality E for the printed copy using any solution. For example the computer system can analyze color information stored in the presentation model G to determine whether an observer will be able to distinguish adjacent color areas e.g. by using a minimum threshold change between color values identify a disparity between the original color space for the electronic document and the color space that will be perceived by the observer and or the like. Additionally the computer system can analyze the presentation model G to determine whether line spacing is sufficient to be distinguished by the observer determine whether anti aliasing will successfully smooth lines from the perspective of the observer make the image blurry looking and or the like. When an electronic document includes multiple pages computer system can use all of the pages select one or more representative pages and or the like. For example computer system can automatically select the first page or a page having the most data as a representative page enable a user to select a representative page and or the like. It is understood that generation and use of the presentation model G in the analysis as well as the various factors described herein as being analyzed are only illustrative of various approaches and factors that computer system can consider in determining the perceived quality E for the printed copy.

As discussed herein computer system can determine a perceived quality E for the printed copy using the presentation attributes D. In an embodiment computer system can calculate a value for the perceived quality E which is indicative as to whether the printed copy is likely may or may not be or is unlikely to be acceptable for the intended use F. For example computer system can use a numeric scale to individually evaluate each of the presentation attributes D and the resulting evaluations can be combined to calculate the perceived quality E. Additionally computer system can use a weighted formula to combine the evaluations according to a relative importance of each presentation attribute D to the perceived quality E. In response to calculating the value for the perceived quality E computer system can provide a warning message for presentation to a user identify a set of adjustment options H which can be used to change e.g. improve the perceived quality E and or the like.

Furthermore computer system can generate a quality preview for presentation to a user based on the presentation model G. In an embodiment as shown in computer system manages a user interface e.g. a web page which includes both a set of user interface controls for enabling a user to provide one or more presentation attributes D and a preview area which displays the presentation model G. The presentation model G can be configured to approximate how the printed copy will look to an observer during the intended use F e.g. as defined by the observer location and or display environment attributes defined using the user interface .

In an embodiment the computer system can enable a user to select an intended use F which defines a set of observer location and or display environment attributes corresponding to the intended use F. Similarly the computer system can enable the user to define change the various presentation attributes D and save a set of presentation attributes D as a new revised intended use F. Regardless in response to a selection change to the presentation attributes D and or intended use F computer system can update the presentation model G according to the presentation attributes D and redisplay the presentation model G in the user interface for presentation to the user . In another embodiment the computer system can provide one or more presentation attributes D which computer system has determined would maximize the perceived quality E of the printed copy of the electronic document for use by the user . For example computer system can generate a user interface which displays the one or more presentation attributes D. Subsequently the user can select to use the one or more presentation attributes D change one or more of the presentation attributes D assign value s to one or more previously unassigned presentation attributes D and or the like. Subsequently computer system can determine the impact of any change s made by the user on the perceived quality E.

As discussed herein computer system can evaluate the electronic document properties A physical document properties C and or the presentation attributes D to determine a perceived quality E of a printed copy of at least one page of the electronic document . When computer system determines that the perceived quality E may be unacceptable to the user e.g. too low or overly high computer system can present a set of adjustment options H for presentation to the user each of which can result in a change to the perceived quality E. Similarly a user can request that the computer system suggest a set of adjustment options H which can change the perceived quality E regardless of whether it is currently acceptable or unacceptable . The set of adjustment options H can include for example one or more possible changes to the electronic document one or more possible changes to the printing process e.g. printing attributes B FIG. for generating the printed copy of the electronic document and or one or more possible changes to the presentation attributes D currently defined for the printed copy.

To this extent computer system can present a change in one or more colors included in the electronic document a resolution of the electronic document a size type of a font included in the electronic document and or the like. Similarly computer system can present a change in a media selected for the printed copy a printer designated to generate the printed copy and or the like. Furthermore computer system can present a change to the distance of the observer from the printed copy one or more lighting attributes and or the like.

As described herein the determination of a perceived quality for a printed copy of an electronic document can be performed as part of a process for printing the electronic document . To this extent shows an illustrative process for printing an electronic document which can be implemented by computer system according to an embodiment. In process computer system can obtain a print request for an electronic document using any solution e.g. via a user interface API and or the like which can define a printing configuration e.g. printer media etc. for the electronic document . In response to receiving the print request in process computer system can determine a set of physical document properties C of a printed copy of the electronic document using any solution and in process computer system can determine a set of presentation attributes D for an intended use of the printed copy using any solution.

In process computer system can determine a perceived quality E for the printed copy of the electronic document using any solution. For example as described herein computer system can calculate a metric based on the electronic document set of physical document properties C and or set of presentation attributes D which is indicative of how the printed copy will be perceived by a typical observer. In response to the calculation computer system can continue with the printing process e.g. when the perceived quality E is indicative that the electronic document is highly likely to be perceived as acceptable present a result of the calculation for use by the user and or the like. Furthermore the computer system can present a preview of the printed copy to the user which is configured to approximate the perceived quality of the printed copy during the intended use.

In process the user can select to make one or more adjustments to the electronic document printing process and or presentation attributes D. For example the computer system can present a set of adjustment options each of which can result in a change e.g. an increase in the perceived quality of the printed copy. Similarly computer system can present one or more adjustment options that may adversely impact the perceived quality e.g. when the perceived quality is very high but may result in a cost savings for the printing process. In response the user can select one or more of the adjustment options and computer system can return to update the physical properties of the printed copy and or the presentation attributes in response to the adjustment s . Once the perceived quality of the printed copy is acceptable to the user computer system can proceed with printing the document in process .

By determining the perceived quality using a process described herein computer system can reduce printed document waste by mitigating instances where the resulting printed copy is perceived as unacceptable by a user . Additionally computer system can lead to higher user satisfaction by giving the user clear choices and perceived quality ramifications of available document configurations processing and finishing options. Furthermore computer system can utilize the perceived quality to suggest other products and or applications which are better suited for generating a printed copy of the electronic document having the electronic document properties A given a set of presentation attributes D.

While primarily shown and described herein as a method and system for determining a perceived quality of a printed copy of an electronic document it is understood that aspects of the invention further provide various alternative embodiments. In one embodiment the perceived quality of other types of physical reproductions of an electronic document can be determined. For example the perceived quality of a three dimensional object can be determined from an electronic document from which the three dimensional object is to be created. The electronic document can comprise for example an image file from which a three dimensional rendering will be generated. The three dimensional rendering can be for example carved out of a translucent material such as a polymer a plastic and or the like according to the image data e.g. pixel data values stored in the electronic document . Subsequently the three dimensional rendering can be backlit to reproduce a grayscale equivalent of the image data stored in the electronic document . Similarly the electronic document can comprise data defining a three dimensional object such as a computer aided design CAD file. A three dimensional printing process can be used to create a three dimensional object from the electronic document which can be intended for presentation in a display environment. In either case computer system can determine a perceived quality of the three dimensional object using the set of presentation attributes and the set of electronic document properties and a process as described herein. However it is understood that computer system can further account for various three dimensional attributes of the physical reproduction such as its width at one or more locations as well as one or more additional presentation attributes such as any shadows resulting from the lighting and or the like.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer program fixed in at least one computer readable medium which when executed enables a computer system to determine a perceived quality of a printed copy of an electronic document. To this extent the computer readable medium includes program code such as analysis program which implements some or all of a process described herein. It is understood that the term computer readable medium comprises one or more of any type of tangible medium of expression now known or later developed from which a copy of the program code can be perceived reproduced or otherwise communicated by a computing device. For example the computer readable medium can comprise one or more portable storage articles of manufacture one or more memory storage components of a computing device paper and or the like.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of providing a copy of program code such as analysis program which implements some or all of a process described herein. In this case a computer system can process a copy of program code that implements some or all of a process described herein to generate and transmit for reception at a second distinct location a set of data signals that has one or more of its characteristics set and or changed in such a manner as to encode a copy of the program code in the set of data signals. Similarly an embodiment of the invention provides a method of acquiring a copy of program code that implements some or all of a process described herein which includes a computer system receiving the set of data signals described herein and translating the set of data signals into a copy of the computer program fixed in at least one computer readable medium. In either case the set of data signals can be transmitted received using any type of communications link.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a method of generating a system for determining a perceived quality of a printed copy of an electronic document. In this case a computer system such as computer system can be obtained e.g. created maintained made available etc. and one or more components for performing a process described herein can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer system. To this extent the deployment can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device 2 adding one or more computing and or I O devices to the computer system 3 incorporating and or modifying the computer system to enable it to perform a process described herein and or the like.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to an individual in the art are included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

