---

title: Vaccination composition
abstract: The present invention is directed to vaccination composition comprising a particle comprising a polymer matrix incorporating an adjuvant and/or an antigen, to method of making them and use. Particularly, the present invention results in adjuvants and/or antigens, covalently entrapped in or coupled to polymer carriers or polymeric devices, such as micelles, nanoparticles, microspheres and other types of polymer devices for controlled release; the adjuvant and/or antigen are covalently bonded in or to the polymer carriers or polymeric devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09539212&OS=09539212&RS=09539212
owner: CRISTAL DELIVERY B.V.
number: 09539212
owner_city: Maastricht
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140310
---
This application is the national phase of PCT application PCT NL2014 050139 having an international filing date of 10 Mar. 2014 which claims benefit of Dutch patent application No. 2010427 filed 11 Mar. 2013. The contents of the above patent applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to vaccination composition comprising a particle for controlled release of antigens and or adjuvants.

Vaccination is a powerful method against diseases. According to the World Health Organization WHO around 2.5 million children s lives are saved each year due to the availability of vaccines against a variety of antigens. Vaccines are not only used in a preventive manner but also therapeutically as well e.g. in oncology or in Alzheimer s disease. The immune system works by first capturing antigens subsequently amplifying a complex network of specialized cells that are adept at clearing pathogens and ultimately creating an immunological memory of that agent in the event of future exposure. Antigen presenting cells APCs such as B cells macrophages and dendritic cells DCs take up antigens and process these and present fragments of these antigens on the surface through MHC class I and II pathways for recognition by the T cell receptors present on the T cells. DCs are unique in their ability to activate naive T cells. Dendritic Cells DC play therefore a central role in the vaccination process. This process of antigen presentation typically takes place in the regional lymph node after chemokine dependent migration of the antigen loaded DC. Also antigen presenting cells APCs perceive danger signals from cells and offer co stimulatory signals through co stimulatory molecules present on their surface for recognition by receptors on recirculating T cells to initiate an immune response in the lymph node. Upon encountering the danger signals immature DCs change to a mature stage where they present the antigen on their surface. This step is usually concurrent with the migration of DCs from peripheral tissue to the lymph node for T cell activation. It is believed that soon after antigen presentation the DCs undergo apoptosis in the lymph nodes.

In addition to antigens vaccine composition often comprise adjuvants. Adjuvants are agents that enhance or boost the immune response of a recipient to a administered antigen. For instance subunit vaccines require the addition of adjuvants for a proper immune response.

Nanoparticles and microparticles have been used in vaccine compositions. Biodegradable nanoparticles comprising of poly D L lactic co glycolic acid PLGA have been used to encapsulate antigens or adjuvants. Also polystyrene beads with ovalbumin OVA have been tested.

It was disclosed that Micelles Peptide Cross linked micelles PCMs PCMs that are composed of block copolymers and encapsulate immuno stimulatory DNA in the core and bind peptide antigens through disulphide linkages. In the presence of a high concentration of glutathione they deliver antigenic peptides and immuno stimulatory DNA to APCs Hao et al Int J Nanomedicine. 2006 1 97 103 Hirosue et al Vaccine 28 2010 7897 7906 . However disulphide bridges do not allow for controlled release.

However the use of nanoparticles in vaccination still has several bottlenecks. It is e.g. required that sufficient antigens should be presented to dendritic cells DC in a way that leads to a sufficient immune activation. thereby preferably avoiding tolerance or auto immunity. Often several vaccinations are needed to require long immunisation.

Furthermore for each purpose the vaccine composition needs optimisation. It requires the appropriate selection of immunisation methods and or adjuvants. It depends very much on the type of use preventive or therapeutic. Moreover one tries to avoid unwanted side effects such as autoimmune disease and tolerance.

It is also seen that the majority of nanoparticles are taken up by macrophages upon administration while the target is preferably DCs. Another disadvantage of the current nano and microparticle is that they comprise physically encapsulated antigen and or adjuvant i.e. the antigen and or adjuvant is not covalently entrapped by the nano or microparticle. This means that there is no or minimal control over the release profile while this is crucial for best immune system presentation activation. It is often seen that there is a burst release of the antigen and or adjuvant when the particles are administered because of the inherent biological instability of the nano or microparticles of the prior art. The release of the antigen and or adjuvant takes place at the site of administration instead of the site cells where it is most useful to present the adjuvant and antigen. Furthermore the nanoparticles in the prior art themselves are all physical assemblies meaning the forces holding the particle together are physical forces and not covalent linked and thus often these particle are instable. In addition antigens and or adjuvants are mostly physically adsorbed to the nanoparticle surface which is much less stable than covalent bonding and does not allow for a controlled release or to a much lower extent. Moreover although the nanoparticles themselves are described as single molecular entities the structural integrity of these nanoparticles is largely unknown because of the method of production and the physical assembly and encapsulation. Often these nanoparticles to a large extent disrupt after administration to the animals. The instability of the nanoparticle may result in that not all antigen is associated with the carrier. For example it was shown that 25 of the OVA was not associated with the liposomes. Trimethylchitosan TMC nanoparticles and showed a burst release of approx. 20 OVA within the first day followed by no further detectable release of OVA over three weeks. Similarly PLGA microspheres produced an immediate OVA burst release which amounted to 32 and 10 of the total dose for the microspheres loaded with OVA alone or with both OVA and CpG respectively. No further protein release was detectable during the subsequent three weeks. Mohanan et al J. Control Rel 2010 vol 147 3 342 349 .

Another disadvantage is that the production of the nanoparticle may affect the antigen structure e.g. see the advantages and disadvantages of nanoparticle preparation methods Kunda et al Pharm Res 2013 30 325 341 .

It appears that the uptake of nanoparticle in target cells is largely size and composition dependent thus requiring full control of the size and composition. For many nanoparticles and methods of production in the prior art however it is not possible to control the size and or composition. Indeed most of the particles of the prior art show a large distribution in size thereby rendering a vaccine composition based on the particles heterogeneous or requiring further purification. Furthermore for vaccination purposes there has to be a tight control over the encapsulation of antigen and or adjuvant and or attachment of the targeting agent to ensure batch to batch reproducibility. Most of the nanoparticles in the prior art do not enable such a tight control and are therefore not suitable for vaccination purposes and to generate a robust therapeutic response.

Often for the nanoparticles of the prior art the immune response is not long enough e.g. because of the burst release and thus additional boosting schedules are required for sufficient immune response.

WO2010 138193 is directed to compositions of synthetic nanocarriers that may target sites of action in cells such as antigen presenting cells and comprise immunomodulatory agents that dissociate from the synthetic nanocarriers in a pH sensitive manner. The synthetic nanocarriers of WO2010 138193 are preferentially taken up by APCs. Upon being taken up by the APC the synthetic nanocarriers are presumed to be endocytosed into an endosomal lysosomal compartment where the pH becomes more acidic as opposed to the neutral pH outside the cells. Under these conditions the immunomodulatory agent exhibits a pH sensitive dissociation from the synthetic nanocarrier and is released from the synthetic nanocarrier. The immunomodulatory agent is then free to interact with receptors associated with the endosome lysosome and stimulate a desired immune response. However WO2010 138193 does not discloses cross linking of the polymers when the immunomodulatory agent is present. There is no disclosure of a system wherein the immunomodulatory agent is covalently entrapped into the nanoparticle. In WO2010 138193 particles are made by first conjugating the immunomodulatory agent to the polymer and then make nanoparticles of the immunomodulatory agent polymer complex. The system of WO2010 138193 thus requires different routes for conjugation for each different immunomodulatory agent.

US2009 011993 is directed to particles that deliver active agents such as vaccines immune modulatory agents and or drugs that target antigen presenting cells. US2009 011993 discloses a new type of hydrophobic polymers comprising ketal groups in the polymer backbone wherein the ketal groups are arranged in a way such that both oxygen atoms are located in the polymer backbone. US2009 011993 discloses the use of an external crosslinking agent to cross link the polymers to the immune modulatory agents and does not disclose a crosslinking step of the polymers in the presence of immune modulatory agents.

Unfortunately there seems to be no universal formulation that can be universally be applied to various subunit vaccines. For most systems of the prior art the particles and conjugation needs an optimisation for each different immunomodulatory agent. This requires extensive research for each new particle with a another immunomodulatory agent and creates differences between the different immunomodulatory agents. The optimum formulation preferably depends on the type of response required for protective immunity and the intended route of administration. Various formulation aspects such as particles size choice of adjuvant and co localization of antigen and adjuvant are preferably adjusted based on the selected administration route. The nanoparticles described in the prior art may be suitable for one particular antigen and or adjuvant and for one particular route of administration but are often unsuitable for another antigen adjuvant and or other route of administration. Thus for different vaccination routes each time a different nanoparticle has to be developed.

WO 2010 033022 and WO2013 002636 disclose a controlled release system comprising drugs such as dexamethasone and paclitaxel however they do not disclose that antigens and or adjuvants may be entrapped in the polymeric matrix particles.

WO2012 039602 discloses biodegradable linker molecules that may be used in a covalent polymer matrix particle such as disclosed in WO 2010 033022 and WO2013 002636. WO2012 039602 does not disclose antigens or adjuvants in such a system.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a vaccination composition. It is furthermore an object of the present invention to provide a vaccination composition that is easily adjustable for different administration routes. In addition the vaccination composition preferably provides a system with covalent bonding of an antigen and or adjuvant thereby ensuring full control over the local and time spatial exposure to adjuvant or antigen. Another object of the invention is to provide a vaccination composition comprising nano and or microparticles. Furthermore another object of the present invention is to provide a vaccine composition wherein the controlled release particles have a narrow size distribution. Yet another object of the invention is to provide a vaccination composition that may accommodate different antigens and or adjuvants e.g. both hydrophilic and hydrophobic compounds and over a large size range. Moreover another object of the invention is to provide a vaccination composition wherein the release of the adjuvant and or antigen can be controlled. Another object of the invention is to provide a vaccination composition wherein each entrapped adjuvant and or antigen has its own unique release profile. Even another object of the present invention is to provide a vaccination composition that comprises targeting agents covalently attached to the particle e.g. to its surface. The targeting agent may direct the particle of the present invention to the cells or site of interest such as APCs. Moreover another object of the invention is to provide a vaccination system wherein the antigen and or adjuvant may be encapsulated but may also be present on the surface of a particle or both. Yet another object of the invention is to provide method for producing the vaccination composition that is safe and or non destructive for the antigen and or adjuvant.

The present invention provides a vaccination composition that meets one or more of the above mentioned objects.

In a first aspect the present invention provides a vaccination composition comprising a particle comprising an antigen and or a adjuvant wherein the particle is obtainable by a method comprising the steps of 

 i mixing an antigen and or adjuvant comprising a reactive moiety with an aqueous solution or dispersion comprising polymer chains comprising at least one reactive moiety capable of reacting with the reactive moiety of the adjuvant and or antigen the polymer chains further being capable of cross linking intra or intermolecularly and

 ii subjecting this mixture to conditions wherein the polymers self assemble into particles with the antigen and or adjuvant encapsulated in the core of the micelles

 iii subjecting the particle mixture to cross linking forming a polymer matrix under such conditions that simultaneous with the formation of the polymer matrix the adjuvant and or antigen is entrapped in this polymer matrix that is in the polymeric network formed.

The polymer matrix is the polymeric network formed. The antigen and or adjuvant are thus entrapped in the polymer matrix in the polymer network formed by the crosslinking. The antigen and or adjuvant cross link to the polymer chains and thus form also part of the polymer network and the polymer matrix.

In a second aspect the present invention provides a method to produce a vaccination composition comprising a particle comprising an antigen and or a adjuvant said method comprising the steps of 

i mixing an antigen and or adjuvant comprising a reactive moiety with an aqueous solution or dispersion comprising polymer chains comprising at least one reactive moiety capable of reacting with the reactive moiety of the adjuvant and or antigen the polymer chains further being capable of cross linking intra or intermolecularly and

 ii subjecting this mixture to conditions wherein the polymers self assemble into particles with the antigen and or adjuvant encapsulated in the core of the micelles

 iii subjecting the particle mixture from step ii to cross linking forming a polymer matrix under such conditions that simultaneous with the formation of the polymer matrix the adjuvant and or antigen is entrapped in this polymer matrix that is in the polymeric network formed.

In a further aspect of the invention the present invention provides a method to produce a vaccination composition comprising a particle comprising an antigen and or a adjuvant said method comprising the steps of 

 i providing an aqueous solution or dispersion comprising polymer chains comprising at least one reactive moiety capable of reacting with the reactive moiety of the adjuvant and or antigen the polymer chains further being capable of cross linking intra or intermolecularly and

 iii mixing the particle from step ii with a solution comprising an adjuvant and or antigen such that the antigen and or adjuvant is encapsulated in the particle and 

 iv subjecting the particle mixture from step iii to cross linking forming a polymer matrix under such conditions that simultaneous with the formation of the polymer matrix the adjuvant and or antigen is entrapped in this polymer matrix that is in the polymeric network formed.

Suitably in all aspects and or embodiments of the invention after crosslinking a targeting agent and or an antigen and or an adjuvant is conjugated to the surface of the generated particles. Preferably the conjugation is covalent. Suitably the polymer chains comprise reactive moieties that do not react in the cross linking step and may be used to link a targeting agent and or an antigen and or an adjuvant to the surface of the formed and cross linked particle. Alternatively after the crosslinking additional linking groups are attached to the surface of the generated cross linked particles that may further react to conjugate a targeting agent and or an antigen and or an adjuvant to the surface of the cross linked particle. Also reactive moieties on the polymer chains may be blocked during the cross linking step and deblocked when the polymer network has formed. These deblocked reactive moieties may then be reacted with a targeting agent and or an antigen and or an adjuvant such that these will be attached to the surface of the cross linked particle. In addition the targeting agent and or antigen and or adjuvant may comprise a reactive moiety that is able to conjugate to the polymer chains of the cross linked particles.

In another aspect the invention is related to the use of a vaccine composition in a prophylactic manner.

Yet another aspect of the invention is related to a method of treatment using the vaccine composition of the invention.

In all aspects and or embodiments of the invention the polymer comprises at least one reactive moiety per polymer chain. Also in all aspects and or embodiments of the invention the adjuvant and or antigen comprise at least one reactive moiety. Advantageously the adjuvant and or antigen are covalently entrapped in the polymer matrix during the cross linking step. During the cross linking step the polymers form a network together with the adjuvant and or antigen which form the polymer matrix which entrap the antigen and or adjuvant. The antigen and or adjuvant are thus also cross linked to the polymers during the cross linking step such that the antigen and or adjuvant are covalently linked to the polymer chains and form part of the network formed. Simultaneously the polymer chains are cross linked to each other to form a polymer network the polymer and entrapped adjuvant and or antigen form the polymer matrix.

The present invention provides for a vaccination composition comprising a particle comprising an antigen and or a adjuvant. The particle may covalently entrap an antigen and or an adjuvant on the inside of the particle. In addition it may also provide for an antigen and or adjuvant on the outer surface of the particle. The controlled release particle of the present invention may simultaneous carry several different antigens and or adjuvants in one particle thereby ensuring that the different antigen and or adjuvant are released at the same site. It may also be possible to target the controlled release particle to a specific target site for example by conjugation of a specific targeting agent to the outer surface of the cross linked particle. In addition the release profile of the adjuvant and or antigen may be tuned as desired. The particle of the present invention may use different linkers for different molecules thereby providing the desired release for each adjuvant and or antigen. One system may be produced with different molecules each having its own release profile. The system of the present invention provides a true tuneable system for optimisation of the therapeutic effect.

The vaccination composition of the present invention is unique as it comprises the essential required elements for tailor made optimised vaccination products. The vaccination composition of the present invention allows for stimulation of the dendritic cells in an optimal manner by full control over 

In accordance with the present invention the vaccination composition comprises a particle. Particularly the present invention results in antigens and or adjuvants entrapped preferably covalently in or otherwise incorporated in or coupled to polymer carriers or polymeric devices such as micelles nanoparticles microspheres hydrogels and other types of polymer carriers or devices for vaccination the antigens and or adjuvants are covalently entrapped within the particle and or bonded to the polymeric devices or carriers.

In a preferred embodiment the particle is a controlled release system and may encompass all kinds of controlled release including slow release sustained pulsatile and delayed release.

For the present invention it should be understood that the particle may a nanoparticle and or a microparticle.

In general particles are classified according to diameter. Coarse particles cover a range between 10 000 and 2 500 nanometers. Fine particles such as microparticles are sized between 2 500 and 100 nanometers. Ultrafine particles such as nanoparticles are sized between 1 and 100 nanometers. For the present invention microparticle range in size of between 100 and 0.5 micrometer preferably between 50 and 1 micrometer more preferably between 25 and 0.5 micrometer and more preferably between 10 and 0.1 micrometer. Nanoparticles may range in size between 0.1 and 1000 nanometer preferably between 1 and 500 nanometer more preferably between 5 and 250 nanometer more preferably between 10 and 200 nanometer and more preferably between 30 and 150 nanometer. The size may influence the ability to be taken up by target cells. Generally virus sized particles in the size range of 20 to 200 nm

are usually taken up by endocytosis resulting in a cellular based immune response whereas particles with sizes between 500 nm and 5 micron are mainly taken up by phagocytosis and or macro pinocytosis and are more likely to promote a humoral immune response. Specific cells usually have a upper and lower limit size for particles that may be taken up. A skilled person knows how to tune this. Alternatively if one wishes that certain cells do not take up the particles of the invention a skilled person may choose for a size that is outside the range for these cells. The particles of the present invention may be tuned to a desired size enabling to target specific cells. In addition the particles made by the methods of the invention have a narrow distribution so that a large part of the particles have the desired particle size and thus can target the desired cells.

In a preferred embodiment the particles of the present invention have a very narrow size distribution meaning that the larger part of the particles have a the same size. Preferably the particles have polydispersity index DPI of less than 0.5 more preferably less than 0.4 even more preferably less than 0.3 more preferably less than 0.2 and most preferably less than 0.1 or even less than 0.05.

Nanoparticulate vaccine compositions such as micelles are considered to be promising candidates for immunization against diseases. The particle of the present invention may contain a broad variety of antigens and or adjuvants including both hydrophobic and hydrophilic compounds. A suitable particle is described in WO 2010 033022. In the particle of the present invention and or embodiment thereof antigens and or adjuvants are first non covalently entrapped in polymer phases and especially in polymer rich phases in an aqueous environment and subsequently are covalently conjugated to a 3D polymer network.

In step ii formation of the particles the antigen and or antigen are physically or non covalently entrapped. Or in the alternative method in step iii wherein the adjuvant and or antigen are mixed with the formed particle the antigen and or adjuvant are physically or non covalently entrapped. In the crosslinking step the antigen and or adjuvant are covalently entrapped rendering a particle wherein the antigen and or adjuvant is covalently entrapped in the inside of the particle. It should be noted that the prior art discloses systems wherein first a cross linking step is performed without the present of the antigen and or adjuvant. In the invention of the application the adjuvant and or antigen are present during the cross linking step thereby covalently linking the adjuvant and or antigen to the polymer matrix. Also when linking the adjuvant and or antigen to the surface of the particle the adjuvant and or antigen is covalently linked to the polymer matrix of the particle.

The particle of the present invention and or embodiments thereof are prepared by first mixing an antigen and or adjuvant with a polymer and then subsequently cross linking the polymer to form a polymer matrix. The crosslinking may be done with polymer and adjuvant and or antigen each derivatised with polymerisable moieties and in the presence of free radical initiators but also other types of covalent conjugation linker are possible.

Particles with covalently entrapped and or conjugated antigens and or adjuvants may have several advantages as explained above. The resulting vaccine compositions may have therapeutic curative or prophylactic properties. The particle of the present invention and or embodiments thereof may provide a tuneable system for providing the adjuvant and or antigen to the location where it is needed. In addition the particle may be decorated with antigens and or other agents such as ligands to target to a desired location and or particular cell type. Entrapment of antigens and or adjuvants in a particle may make these compounds suitable for vaccination e.g. by oral or subcutaneous administration.

Antigens are often proteinaceous and thus vulnerable. Crosslinking of polymers may be carried out by free radical cross linking. Free radical cross linking may potentially harm the antigen and may thus not be preferred.

In step i the polymer chains preferably interact with each other see herein below forming polymer sub phases in an aqueous phase. That is relatively polymer chain rich and relatively polymer chain poor phases are created. In a preferred embodiment the antigen and or adjuvant is present in the polymer chain rich phases. A sub location of antigen and or adjuvant in polymer chain rich sub phases occurs based on physical interactions between the antigen and or adjuvant and the polymer chains.

In step i the antigen and or adjuvant do not form covalent conjugates with the polymer chains. Only in the cross linking step ii or iii the antigen and or adjuvant and the polymer chains together form a 3D network.

The antigen and or adjuvant are covalently bonded to the polymer carrier preferably via a linker molecule simultaneously with the cross linking of the polymers forming the polymeric carrier or device. The cross linked antigen and or adjuvant polymer conjugates which are formed in step ii or iii exhibit a higher thermodynamic stability than the non cross linked polymer particles. In addition the entrapped antigen and or adjuvant molecules are prevented from rapid release due to covalent bonding to the polymeric carrier.

The vaccine composition of the invention does not require the coupling of the antigen and or adjuvant directly to single polymer chains up front to particle formation thereby fully retaining the initial properties of the polymers used such as thermo sensitive properties and or the ease of antigen and or adjuvant loaded micelle formation. The use of a fixed type of polymer for example thermo sensitive biodegradable block copolymers provides a broadly applicable platform technology that allows a rapid and easy change optimization of the composition of the antigen and or adjuvant loaded devices.

The vaccine composition of the present invention is applicable to all antigen and or adjuvant that are capable of non covalently interacting with polymer chains which are capable of forming polymeric carriers after cross linking. In the aqueous phase the polymer chains before the cross linking step preferably assemble in a certain structure or at least in polymer chain rich domains and the antigen and or adjuvant localise in these assemblies. All types of physical interactions are possible see below .

The only further requirement is that the antigen and or adjuvant contains a moiety or can be modified with a reactive substituent that is capable to react with a moiety of the polymer chains that form the basis of the polymeric particle.

In a preferred embodiment the antigen and or adjuvant is provided with a linker molecule preferably a degradable linker.

By covalent entrapment of the antigen and or adjuvant in the core of the carrier such as in the micellar core the antigen and or adjuvant does not come free at the beginning it does not have a burst release . It will benefit from the prolonged residence and or blood circulation of the cross linked carrier in the body thereby acting as a depot on the injection site and or in the blood stream while simultaneously this can lead to elevated antigen and or adjuvant concentrations in the target tissue e.g. tumour lymph node or inflamed tissue. In addition the vaccine composition of the present invention may obtain a long term product stability by subjecting these to lyophilisation. For example vaccine compositions according to the present invention comprising antigen and or adjuvant loaded particles may easily be freeze dried and subsequently suspended without loss of morphology as dry powder a long shelf life is obtained. This is advantageous as especially in developing countries vaccine compositions that do not need refrigeration and or are a dry powder are preferred.

Hence the present invention concerns a vaccine composition wherein the particle starts with the non covalent entrapment of antigens and or adjuvants in polymeric carriers in an aqueous environment whereby the polymer chains of the polymeric carrier contain at least one reactive moiety. This non covalent entrapment is followed by a simultaneous crosslinking reaction between the antigen and or adjuvant and the polymer chains and between the polymer chains themselves thereby forming an intertwined network. In a preferred embodiment a further conjugation step is performed to conjugate antigen and or adjuvants and or targeting ligands to the surface of the particle.

The resulting antigen and or adjuvant loaded polymeric devices such as micelles do not display a premature release of antigens and or adjuvant burst release but demonstrate a prolonged residence at site of injection and or blood circulation e.g. upon parenteral administration. In a preferred embodiment the antigen and or adjuvant comprises a suitable linker that allows sustained release of entrapped compounds in time preferably each with its own specific release rate. This may result for instance in a greatly enhanced dendritic cell DC targeting and accumulation in the lymph node thereby activating the immune system.

In a preferred embodiment the antigen and or adjuvant is entrapped via a linker to the polymer matrix preferably a degradable linker and more preferably a biodegradable linker. Such a system allows a pulsatile or constant release of the adjuvant and or antigen. Controlled release of the antigen and or adjuvant from the carrier is accomplished by cleavage of the preferably degradable linker or linking group between the antigen and or adjuvant and the polymeric carrier under physiological conditions or by local environmental triggers or external stimuli as explained and elaborated herein below. In addition the entrapment prevents exposure of blood to toxic high antigen and or adjuvant peak levels that would otherwise be present immediately after intravenous administrations of free antigens and or adjuvants or in non covalently entrapped antigens and or adjuvants. More importantly by preventing migration of the system to normal tissues acute toxic effects may be diminished. The other way around the antigen and or adjuvant are fully protected from the environment by confinement in the formed three dimensional network of the cross linked polymer carrier such as a cross linked micellar core thereby preventing a premature degradation and or clearance. These unique aspects deliver the antigen and or adjuvant at the right place and time and at an anticipated efficacious dose.

Alternatively in a preferred embodiment of the invention and embodiments thereof adjuvants and or antigens on the surface of the particles may not need to be released as they will be available for the immune system by being present on the outer surface of the particles.

The stepwise method of making the particle of the vaccine composition of the invention comprises two essential consecutive steps.

In the first step a cross linkable polymer and a antigen and or adjuvant are mixed in an aqueous environment. This is preferably achieved by adding the antigen and or adjuvant optionally in a suitable solvent that preferably is water or a water miscible solvent such as a lower alcohol like ethanol tetrahydrofuran or dimethylsulphoxide to an aqueous polymer solution or dispersion. The polymer present and the antigen and or adjuvant are selected so that the polymer and the antigen and or adjuvant will be in intimate contact and in a preferred embodiment the antigen and or adjuvant is in contact with the polymer chains. Said in other words in the first step physical non covalent interactions between the polymer chains and the antigen and or adjuvant result in the selective localisation of compounds in specific regions of a polymeric device.

As a result of the first step the molecules forming the antigen and or adjuvant are non covalently entrapped in and between the polymer chains in solution. In the present description and the appending claims the concept of non covalent interaction means any interaction which is not covalent i.e. any bonding between atoms or bonds which bonding does not involve the sharing of electron pairs. Examples of non covalent interaction are hydrophobic aromatic hydrogen bonding electrostatic stereocomplex and metal ion interactions.

In the second or third essential step of the method of making the particle of the vaccine composition of the invention following the first step the non covalently entrapped antigens and or adjuvants are covalently coupled to the newly forming formed polymer network. That is a reaction is carried out wherein the polymer chains are cross linked. This can occur both inter and intramolecularly but the intermolecular cross links are clearly preferred and any steps that favour intermolecular cross linking are preferred embodiments of the presently claimed process. Simultaneously with the cross linking step the reactive moieties of the antigen and or adjuvant are also co crosslinked to the polymer chains and an intertwined network of the polymers and antigen and or adjuvant is formed. Suitably the polymer comprises more than one reactive group and may react with more than one antigen and or adjuvant. In a preferred embodiment the polymer comprises different reactive groups that are capable of reacting with each other thereby forming a 3 D network of the polymer and the antigen adjuvant. Polymers that comprise two or more different reactive groups may be used. In addition the different reactive groups may be present on different polymers.

This step may require initiators and or catalysts but also physical circumstances may lead to the reactions forming cross links and conjugates. In case initiators and or catalysts are required these may be added to the polymer solution together with the antigens and or adjuvants but can also be added to the reaction system at an earlier or later stage. In a preferred embodiment the initiator is not a free radical Free radicals may react with the antigen and or adjuvant itself thereby altering their properties. This is especially true for sensitive amino acids such as tyrosine and or tryptophan. Aromatic side chains or sulfhydryl groups are thereby usually considered to be the most reactive parts of amino acids with respect to free radicals.

Suitable amounts of antigen and or adjuvant are amounts of 0.1 30 wt. preferably 0.5 15 wt. such as amounts of 1 10 wt. drawn to the weight of polymer antigens and adjuvants. Since the degree of incorporation of antigen and or adjuvant may be as high as 95 100 similar amounts may be incorporated in the formed 3D network.

According to a preferred method of the present invention amphiphilic polymers may be fully dissolved in a solvent.

Antigens and or adjuvants may be present in the solvent or may be added after the dissolution of said polymers or even upon self assembly into loose micelles and the antigens and or adjuvants will form a general distribution over the polymer or micellar solution 

then this system may be subjected to a change of certain circumstances e.g. temperature pH solvent leading to a situation that at least parts of the polymers display a different behaviour than other parts of the polymers and clustering takes place 

due to the physical properties of the antigen and or adjuvant these antigen and or adjuvant localise in certain regions of the newly formed clustered polymeric solution 

after this localisation cross linking takes place to fixate the antigen and or adjuvant in their preferred regions.

In a preferred embodiment of the method of the invention thermosensitive block copolymers are used. For example the antigen and or adjuvant is mixed in an aqueous environment wherein also a non cross linked thermosensitive block copolymer is present at a temperature lower than its Lower Critical Solution Temperature LCST or lower than its critical micelle formation temperature CMT . At any temperature below this LCST the system is in solution at any temperature below this CMT micelle formation does not occur. However by heating such systems particles or micelles are formed thereby entrapping the antigen and or adjuvant in their hydrophobic core. Alternatively empty micelles are formed in step i without the antigen and or adjuvant. Subsequently an antigen and or adjuvant solution is added to the empty micelles. Next the cross linking reaction that forms the intertwined micellar network in the core is also carried out at a temperature higher than the LCST or the CMT. This cross linking reaction can be accelerated by the addition of an initiator and or catalyst either prior to heating of the polymer solution or after formation of the non cross linked particles or micelles. The method of forming first the nanoparticles and then adding the antigen and or adjuvant before the crosslinking may be very suitable for peptides.

In another preferred embodiment of the method of the invention and embodiments thereof the polymers do not need harsh conditions for making the particles. Suitably the formation of the particles is without organic solvents and or other chemicals or solvents that may harm the adjuvant and or antigen. Suitable polymer chains that can be used in the present invention are e.g. thermo sensitive block copolymers. Particularly copolymers based on PEG b poly N hydroxyalkyl methacrylamide oligolactates with partially methacrylated oligolactate units are preferred. Various other meth acrylamide esters can be used to construct the thermosensitive block e.g. esters and preferably oligo lactate esters of HPMAm hydroxypropyl methacrylamide or HEMAm hydroxyethylmethacrylamide and N meth acryloyl amino acid esters. Preferred thermo sensitive block copolymers are derived from monomers containing functional groups which may be modified by methacrylate groups such as HPMAm lactate polymers.

Other types of functional thermosensitive co polymers which can be used are hydrophobically modified poly N hydroxyalkyl meth acrylamides copolymer compositions of N isopropylacrylamide NIPAAm with monomers containing reactive functional groups e.g. acidic acrylamides and other moieties such as N acryloxysuccinimide or similar copolymers of poly alkyl 2 oxazalines etc.

Further preferred thermo sensitive groups can be based on NIPAAm and or alkyl 2 oxaxolines which monomers may be reacted with monomers containing a reactive functional group such as meth acrylamides or meth acrylates containing hydroxyl carboxyl amine or succinimide groups.

However also other types of amphiphilic block copolymers or ionic micelles that are not necessarily thermo sensitive and contain or can be modified with cross linkable reactive groups may be used. In such cases state of the art methods can be used to form the particles and or micelles such as direct dissolution dialysis salting out and solvent evaporation.

These other types of polymers that conform polymer rich phases in water e.g. due to hydrophobic interactions or ionic interactions and that contain reactive moieties or contain moieties that can be used to couple reactive moieties e.g. PEG PLA methacrylate e.g. as described in detail in Kim et al. Polym. Adv. Technol. 10 1999 647 654 methacrylated PLA PEG PLA e.g. as described by Lee et al. in Macromol. Biosci. 6 2006 846 854 methacrylated PEG poly caprolactone e.g. as described by Hu et al. in Macromol. Biosci. 9 2009 456 463 as well as other reactive moieties containing block co polymers based on poly lactic acid poly lactic acid glycolic acid and or poly caprolactones.

In addition polymers capable of forming micelles because of ionic interactions may be used such as block ionomer complexes of poly ethylene oxide b polymethacrylic acid copolymers and divalent metal cations e.g. as described by Kim et al. in J. Control. Rel. 138 2009 197 204 and by Bontha et al. in J. Control. Rel. 114 2006 163 174 polyionic complexes based on block copolymers of poly ethylene glycol and poly amino acid e.g. as taught in Lee et al. Angew. Chem 121 2009 5413 4516 in Nishiyama et al. in Cancer Res. 63 2003 8977 8983 or in Miyata et al. J. Control. Rel. 109 2005 15 23.

In general all polymers that are able to create different subphases in a suitable solvent system can be used together with an adjuvant and or antigen that can localize selectively in such subphases.

The polymer chains and the antigen and or adjuvant contain or may be modified such that these contain reactive moieties. The polymers used should contain a sufficiently high number of reactive substituents capable of cross linking and reacting with the reactive groups of the adjuvant and or antigen. Suitable results are obtained when for instance 10 15 15 20 20 25 25 30 30 35 35 40 40 45 or 45 50 of the monomer units of the polymer have a reactive substituent however also up to 100 of the monomer units may be derivatised with reactive substituents. For example 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 or 95 of the monomer units may be derivatised with reactive substituents. Also 1 10 2 8 3 7 4 6 and 2 5 of the monomer units may be derivatised with reactive substituents.

Also the adjuvant and or antigen have reactive substituents that are capable of crosslinking preferably to the polymers so that an adjuvant antigen polymer matrix is formed. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention and embodiments thereof the adjuvant and or antigen have at least one reactive moiety or substituent that is capable of cross linking. Preferably more than 1 such as 2 3 4 or 5 reactive moieties are present on the adjuvant and or antigen. It should be understood that larger molecules may have more reactive moieties than smaller molecule and it thus the amount of reactive moieties largely depends on the size of the adjuvant and or antigen. Antigens and adjuvants may be large biomolecules and hence may contain more than 5 or even more than 10 or even more than 15 or even more than 20 or even more than 25 reactive moieties. In the context of the present invention reactive moiety reactive substituent and reactive group are used interchangeably and all mean a group that is capable of an action such as cross linking and linking to another molecule.

The release rate of the antigen and or adjuvant can easily be controlled by using different type of linkers to conjugate the reactive moiety to the antigens and or adjuvants. Suitable types of well known degradable linker molecules include but are not limited to esters carbonates imines carbamates succinate or ortho oxime esters ketals acetals hydrazone and enzymatically degradable linkers e.g. peptides or a combination of these. In addition all kinds of well known stimuli sensitive linkers such as photo temperature ultrasound sensitive and other linkers can also be used. When modifying antigens and or adjuvants one takes care of the type of conjugation such that upon release only the antigen and or adjuvant is released and no derivatives that may have other activities as to assure its full activity. By using a biodegradable linkage the original antigen and or adjuvant will be released according to a specific controlled release profile and subsequently exert its activity and especially its immunogenic or stimulating effect.

Vaccine composition of the present invention are polymer carriers such as micelles nanoparticles microspheres hydrogels and other types of polymer carriers or devices comprising entrapped or otherwise incorporated antigens and or adjuvants for controlled release such as devices with a coating with entrapped antigens and adjuvants.

As said in the second or third essential step of the method of the invention cross linking and conjugation is effected. Free radical initiators may not be suitable for use with an antigen and or an adjuvant because they may react to the antigen and or adjuvant itself thereby altering its properties. The crosslinking may therefore be performed without a free radical. Preferable the crosslinking is non propagating e.g. forming only 1 bond per reaction. A suitable cross linking can be via Michael addition Censi et al J. Contol Rel 148 2010 e28 e29 . Suitable crosslinking according to the invention is cross linking resulting in a bond selected from the group consisting of ester hydrazine amide Schiff base imine acetal bonds and similar biodegradable bonds including any potential corresponding derivatives of them. Suitable crosslinking according to the invention is cross linking with a reactive moiety selected from alcohol acid carboxyl hydroxyl amine hydrazine etc. Also photopolymerisation is suitable Censi et al J. Control Rel 140 2009 230 236 . The reactive moieties may be present in the polymer chain and or in the antigen and or adjuvant and or on a linking molecule. In a preferred embodiment the linker or polymer comprises more than 1 reactive moiety so as to form multiple bond. A suitable example is a star like structures e.g. 8 arm COOH derivatised PEG that may react with OH containing polymers and or antigens and or adjuvants. Without any radical a dense 3D network may be formed while protecting sensitive compounds.

In a preferred embodiment the reaction conditions are fairly mild and take place in aqueous environment to protect the integrity of the antigen and or adjuvant. Preferably the crosslinking results in biodegradable linkages.

When the adjuvant and or antigen is entrapped via a degradable linker a constant release of the therapeutically active compound is assured. Controlled release of the adjuvant and or antigen from the carrier is accomplished by cleavage of the preferably degradable linker or linking group between the active ingredient such as adjuvant and or antigen and the polymeric carrier under physiological conditions or by local environmental triggers or external stimuli as explained and elaborated herein below. A suitable example of degradable linker may be found in WO2012 039602 which is incorporated by reference.

wherein n and m are integers from 0 to 20 and preferably from 1 to 10. In preferred embodiments n is an integer from 1 5 more preferably from 1 3 and m is an integer from 1 7 more preferably from 1 5 

In the following preferred linker formula the HO Q group is a carboxylic acid group and the conjugation moiety A is a polymerisable methacrylate which moieties are also exemplified in the working examples herein below 

It should be understood that the above example is not limited and that for example the methacrylate group may be substituted with any polymerisable group as described in the specification. Suitable conjugation groups are polymerisable moieties of the formula PL RC CRR wherein PL is a linking group such as an O a NH a substituted N the substituent being a C Calkyl an O C O an O C O CH wherein r is 0 or 1 and b is an integer from 1 to 6 and R Rand R independently represent a hydrogen atom or a C Cgroup.

In a preferred embodiment an additional step comprises the conjugation of one or more compounds to the outer surface of the particle. In the conjugation step the adjuvant antigen and or targeting compound is conjugated to the reactive moieties of the polymer. Suitably the polymer comprises a reactive moiety that may interact with an adjuvant antigen and or targeting compound after the cross linking step. In a preferred embodiment the end terminal of the polymer comprises a reactive moiety that may interact with a antigen adjuvant and or targeting compound that may be suitably derivatised. The reactive moiety of the end terminal of the polymer ensures that the physical chemical properties of the polymer are unchanged while an additional functionality is employed. For particles wherein the surface is not further modified the polymer has a non reactive moiety such an methoxy on the end terminal. A suitable polymer is X PEG b HPMAmLacx whereby X can be any reactive moiety that can interact with an Y derivatised compound resulting in a stable or biodegradable bond. The latter is dependent on the type of compound use i.e. when its biological activity is negatively affected by the conjugation it might require a biodegradable bond whereas for internalizing ligands a stable bond is required to assure integer intracellular uptake of the entire particle.

In a preferred embodiment the percentage if the X polymer can be between 0 and 100 in a preferred setting between 0 50 more preferred 0 20 and is a good control for the of reactive moieties that can be conjugated to the surface.

In this way the particles not only entrap antigens and or adjuvant but really target the particles to antigen presenting cells APCs that are required for eliciting the desired type of immuneresponse. In a preferred embodiment the adjuvant antigen and or targeting compound on the surface of the particle is utilised with a linker preferably a degradable linker. For large antigens and or adjuvants that do not fit inside the particle and or are not suitable to be entrapped inside the particle conjugation on the surface of the particle may be very suitable. For nucleic acids conjugation to the outside surface preferably via a degradable linker is very suitable.

In a preferred embodiment targeting compounds are conjugated to the surface of the particles. The targeting compounds may suitably target dendritic cells DCs . The human DCs are identified by over expression of human leukocyte antigen HLA DR major histocompatibility complex class II . In addition the specific markers for identifying the myeloid DCs include CD11c CD1a BDCA 1 BDCA 3 HLA DR whereas for the plamacytoid DCs they are CD11c HLADR BDCA 2 and CD123 . In a preferred embodiment the targeting compound binds or is able to bind to CD11 CD1a BDCA 1 BDCA 3 HLA DR BDCA 2 and CD123 toll like receptors TLR C type lectin receptors CU and nod like receptors NLR . Suitable targeting compounds are presented in table 1

In addition suitable targeting compounds for cancer vaccination may be selected from the group consisting of mannose mannan ligands for the Fc receptors for each immunoglobulin class CD11c CD18 and DEC 205 receptor targets DC SIGN receptor targets. A skilled person is well aware of suitable targeting compounds for desired target cells and is able to select the desired targeting compounds. In the context of this invention targeting ligand targeting agent targeting compound or targeting group are used interchangeably and all mean a compound that is able to target a specific cell or specific tissue.

In a preferred embodiment the antigen is a peptide or part of a protein. According to the present invention a peptide is a polymer of amino acids linked by peptide bonds. They have the same peptide bonds as those in proteins but are commonly shorter in length. The shortest peptides are dipeptides consisting of two amino acids joined by a single peptide bond. According to the invention a peptide may be up to 1000 amino acids long e.g. between 10 and 500 amino acids preferably between 12 and 450 amino acids more preferably between 15 and 400 amino acids more preferably between 17 and 375 amino acids more preferably between 20 and 350 amino acids more preferably between 22 and 300 amino acids more preferably between 25 and 250 amino acids more preferably between 27 and 225 amino acids more preferably between 30 and 200 amino acids more preferably between 33 and 175 amino acids more preferably between 35 and 150 amino acids more preferably between 37 and 150 amino acids more preferably between 40 and 125 amino acids more preferably between 45 and 100 amino acids more preferably between 50 and 85 amino acids more preferably between 55 and 75 amino acids and most preferably between 60 and 70 amino acids. Suitable peptides comprise 3 to 100 amino acids more preferably 3 to 90 amino acids more preferably 3 to 80 amino acids and most preferable from 3 to 70 amino acids. Peptides have an amino end and a carboxyl end unless they are cyclic peptides. It is to be understood that polypeptides oligopeptides and even proteins are envisioned under the term peptides according to the present invention.

It should be understood that a mixture of an antigen and an adjuvant may be entrapped in a particle according to the present invention. Preferably the antigen and or adjuvants should be of a nature such that these tend to interact in a physical non covalent manner with the polymer chains of the polymers described herein above. In a preferred embodiment the invention is especially useful for encapsulation of hydrophobic compounds preferably using thermosensitive polymers.

Nanoparticle based vaccine recapitulates the immunogenicity of live viral vaccines and may induce long lived protection possibly as a consequence of persistent antigen adjuvant complexes.

In the vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof the antigen may be any antigen. In the case the antigen is a nucleic acid the antigen is preferably conjugated to the surface of the particle. In a preferred embodiments the antigen may be selected form the group of chemicals bacteria bacterial excretions such as toxins LPS bacteriophages mycobacterial antigens ovalbumin viruses or any part thereof. Suitably the antigen is a surface protein or part thereof from bacteria viruses bacteriophages and or mycobacteria. Suitable examples are antigens from diphtheria toxoid diphtheria CRM 197 human papillomavirus malaria virus antigens west Nile virus recombinant hepatitis A or B surface or core antigens cytomegalovirus HIV anthrax rabies candidiasis influenza various type e.g. subunit like hemagglutinin and neuraminidase ortuberculosis e.g. Ad35 vectored tuberculosis TB AERAS 402. The skilled person will be able to select the appropriate antigen based on the type of vaccine and route of administration.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention and or embodiments thereof the particle may comprise more than one antigen. More than one antigen of the same disease agent may be used and or antigens from different disease agents may be used for e.g. multivaccines.

The vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof preferably comprises an adjuvant. Known adjuvants are a very diverse set of compounds ranging from bacterial toxins particulates plant derivatives and pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs . A useful database for potential adjuvants is Vaxjo and may be found on http www.violinet.org . The database Vaxjo is hereby incorporated by reference.

Suitable examples of adjuvants may be selected from the group consisting of cobalt oxide aluminum hydroxide hydrate aluminumphosphate potassium aluminumsulfate inactivated and dried mycobacteria usually part of Freund s adjuvant CT Cholera toxin including CTB B subunit of cholera toxin LT heat labile toxin Imiquimod Montanide including Montanide ISA51 MF59 squalene oil dispersed in the form of 160 nm droplets conveniently stabilized with a mixture of a high HLB polysorbate 80 and a low HLB surfactant sorbitan trioleate AS02 squalene and two hydrophobic immune adjuvants MPL1 a synthetic derivative of LPS and QS 21 a purified saponin plant extract. Preferred adjuvants are alum aluminium hydroxide squalene or MF59.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention and or embodiments thereof the particle may comprise more than one adjuvant.

The vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiment thereof may suitably be used for therapeutic and or prophylactic purposes. Examples of fields of use may be oncology tuberculosis bacterial infections diphtheria hepatitis B influenza HIV HCV flavivirus west nile virus dengue virus. It is understood that any kind of indication may be possible and that the present invention is not limited to the examples indicated above.

Suitably the invention and or embodiments thereof is related to the use of a vaccine composition in a prophylactic manner. Suitable the present invention is directed to the use of vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof for immunisation against a disease.

Furthermore the vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof is for use as a medicine. In a preferred embodiment the vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof is for use against a disease. The invention is also related to a method of treatment using and or administering to a subject the vaccine composition of the invention.

In a preferred embodiment the disease is selected form the group consisting of cancer infection ophthalmological diseases viral infection bacterial infection fungal infection mucoplasma infection parasite infection inflammation Dermatological diseases Cardiovascular diseases diseases of the central nerve system auto immune disease proliferative diseases arthritis psychotic diseases psoriasis diabetes metabolic disorders lung diseases respiratory diseases pulmonary diseases COPD diseases of the muscoskeletal system emphysema edema hormonal diseases. More specifically the vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof is suitable for treatment of diseases including but not limited to diseases selected from the group consisting of spinal cord injuries heart attacks ischaemi arthritis fungal infections post operative pain pain non small cell lung cancer or cancer small cell lung bladder non Hodgkin s lymphoma general gastrointestinal colorectal head and neck breast general solid acute lymphocytic and acute myelogenous leukemia breast cancer brain cancer general leukaemia liver cancer pancreas cancer colorectal cancer cervical cancer general lymphoma ovarian cancer squamous cell cancer general lung cancer pancreatic cancer bladder cancer renal cancer liver cancer small cell lung cancer stomach cancer Hodgkin s lymphoma non small cell lung cancer oesophageal cancer adrenal cancer melanoma Myelodysplastic syndrome hairy cell leukaemia general skin bladder head and neck non small cell lung oesophageal ovarian melanoma leiomyosarcoma biliary breast prostate systemic Lupus erythematosus mesothelioma and or general sarcoma.

Moreover the vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiments thereof is suitable for treatment of disease including but not limited to a disease selected from the group consisting of diseases to the eyes infectious diseases inflammatory diseases cancer cardiovascular diseases diseases from the central nervous system autoimmune disease and or other diseases such as diabetes insipidus polyuria polydipsia post surgery pain and or spinal cord injuries.

Infectious diseases may be selected from the group including bacterial infections including gram negative infections infections of skin and or fungal infections.

Inflammatory diseases may be selected from the group including rheumatoid arthritis diabetes type I diabetes type II appendicitis bursitis colitis cystitis dermatitis meningitis phlebitis rhinitis tendonitis tonsillitis and or vasculitis.

Cancer may be selected from the group including hormone sensitive prostate cancer hormone sensitive breast cancer non small cell lung cancer small cell lung cancer bladder cancer non Hodgkin s lymphoma general gastrointestinal cancer colorectal cancer head and neck cancer breast cancer acute lymphocytic leukaemia acute myelogenous leukaemia breast cancer brain cancer leukaemia liver cancer testicular cancer small cell lung carcinoma ovarian cancer cervical cancer squamous cell cancer pancreatic cancer renal cancer stomach cancer Hodgkin s lymphoma oesophageal cancer adrenal cancer melanoma Myelodysplastic syndrome hairy cell leukaemia skin cancer leiomyosarcoma prostate cancer systemic Lupus erythematosus mesothelioma and or sarcoma.

Diseases to the eyes may be selected from the group including macular degeneration acute postoperative endophthalmitis macular edema and or cataract.

Cardiovascular diseases may be selected from the group including vasoconstriction coronary heart disease ischaemic heart disease coronary artery disease cardiomyopathy hypertensive heart disease heart failure cor pulmonale cardiac dysrhythmias inflammatory heart disease endocarditis inflammatory cardiomegaly myocarditis valvular heart disease stroke and cerebrovascular disease peripheral arterial disease hypertension and or atherosclerosis.

Diseases from the central nervous system may be selected from the group including encephalitis poliomyelitis neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis or acute disseminated encephalomyelitis and genetic disorders such as Krabbe s disease Huntington s disease and or adrenoleukodystrophy.

Autoimmune diseases may be selected from the group including Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM Addison s disease Agammaglobulinemia Alopecia areata Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Ankylosing Spondylitis Antiphospholipid syndrome Antisynthetase syndrome Atopic allergy Atopic dermatitis Autoimmune aplastic anemia Autoimmune cardiomyopathy Autoimmune enteropathy Autoimmune hemolytic anemia Autoimmune hepatitis Autoimmune inner ear disease Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome Autoimmune peripheral neuropathy Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome Autoimmune progesterone dermatitis Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura Autoimmune urticaria Autoimmune uveitis Balo disease Balo concentric sclerosis Beh et s disease Berger s disease Bickerstaff s encephalitis Blau syndrome Bullous pemphigoid Cancer Castleman s disease Celiac disease Chagas disease Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Churg Strauss syndrome Cicatricial pemphigoid Cogan syndrome Cold agglutinin disease Complement component 2 deficiency Contact dermatitis Cranial arteritis CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Cushing s Syndrome Cutaneous leukocytoclastic angiitis Dego s disease Dercum s disease Dermatitis herpetiformis Dermatomyositis Diabetes mellitus type 1 Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis Dressler s syndrome Drug induced lupus Discoid lupus erythematosus Eczema Endometriosis Enthesitis related arthritis Eosinophilic fasciitis Eosinophilic gastroenteritis Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita Erythema nodosum Erythroblastosis fetalis Essential mixed cryoglobulinemia Evan s syndrome Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva Fibrosing alveolitis or Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Gastritis Gastrointestinal pemphigoid Giant cell arteritis Glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Guillain Barr syndrome GBS Hashimoto s encephalopathy Hashimoto s thyroiditis Henoch Schonlein purpura Herpes gestationis aka Gestational Pemphigoid Hidradenitis suppurativa Hughes Stovin syndrome Hypogammaglobulinemia Idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura See Autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura IgA nephropathy Inclusion body myositis Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Interstitial cystitis Juvenile idiopathic arthritis aka Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Kawasaki s disease Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome Leukocytoclastic vasculitis Lichen planus Lichen sclerosus Linear IgA disease LAD Lou Gehrig s disease Also Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Lupoid hepatitis aka Autoimmune hepatitis Lupus erythematosus Majeed syndrome M ni re s disease Microscopic polyangiitis Miller Fisher syndrome see Guillain Barre Syndrome Mixed connective tissue disease Morphea Mucha Habermann disease aka Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia gravis Myositis Narcolepsy Neuromyelitis optica also Devic s disease Neuromyotonia Occular cicatricial pemphigoid Opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome Ord s thyroiditis Palindromic rheumatism PANDAS pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcus Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH Parry Romberg syndrome Parsonage Turner syndrome Pars planitis Pemphigus vulgaris Pernicious anaemia Perivenous encephalomyelitis POEMS syndrome Polyarteritis nodosa Polymyalgia rheumatica Polymyositis Primary biliary cirrhosis Primary sclerosing cholangitis Progressive inflammatory neuropathy Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Pyoderma gangrenosum Pure red cell aplasia Rasmussen s encephalitis Raynaud phenomenon Relapsing polychondritis Reiter s syndrome Restless leg syndrome Retroperitoneal fibrosis Rheumatoid arthritis Rheumatic fever Sarcoidosis Schizophrenia Schmidt syndrome another form of APS Schnitzler syndrome Scleritis Scleroderma Serum Sickness Sj gren s syndrome Spondyloarthropathy Still s disease see Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Stiff person syndrome Subacute bacterial endocarditis SBE Susac s syndrome Sweet s syndrome Sydenham chorea see PANDAS Sympathetic ophthalmia Systemic lupus erythematosis see Lupus erythematosis Takayasu s arteritis Temporal arteritis also known as giant cell arteritis Thrombocytopenia Tolosa Hunt syndrome Transverse myelitis Ulcerative colitis one of two types of idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease IBD Undifferentiated connective tissue disease different from Mixed connective tissue disease Undifferentiated spondyloarthropathy Urticarial vasculitis Vasculitis Vitiligo and or Wegener s granulomatosis.

Other diseases may be selected from the group including diabetes insipidus polyuria and or polydipsia pruritus post surgery pain and or spinal cord injury including paraplegia.

The vaccine composition of the present invention and or embodiment thereof may suitably used for several routes of administration. Suitable routes are parenteral intravenous i.v. subcutaneous s.c. intramuscular intralymphatic intraperitoneal oral including buccal and sublingual mucosal develivery such as intra nasal and pulmonary dermal such as topical transdermal transcutaneous.

For the purpose of clarity and a concise description features are described herein as part of the same or separate embodiments however it will be appreciated that the scope of the invention may include embodiments having combinations of all or some of the features described.

By way of example the formation of a specific embodiment of the method of the present invention is described. The examples are in no way to be construed as limiting to the invention.

In this example one starts from copolymers based on thermo sensitive PEG b poly N hydroxyalkyl methacrylamide oligolactates with partially methacrylated oligolactate units. Leuprolide is derivatised with a reactive moiety that is attached to a sulfoxide methacrylate L2 in WO2012 039602 which is a degradable linker. An aqueous solution of said thermo sensitive block copolymers is subsequently mixed with a small amount of a concentrated solution typically 10 1 volume ratio of leuprolide in tetrahydrofuran at a temperature below the polymers CMT i.e. that does not allow micelle formation i.e. 0 degrees C. Then an initiator catalyst solution potassium persulphate KPS N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine TEMED is added immediately followed by rapid heating till above the critical micelle formation temperature CMT i.e. 20 degrees celsius. This results in the formation of monodisperse polymeric micelles size around 70 nm PDI less than 0.2 where the leuprolide is non covalently localised in the hydrophobic core. After micelle formation a nitrogen atmosphere is created. Thereby the initiator radicals induce polymerisation of the methacrylated polymers and the polymerisable leuprolide having the reactive moiety. This cross linking process results in the formation of an intertwined network and fixates the leuprolide covalently inside the micellar core without affecting the micellar size or uniformity.

Thus the leuprolide is covalently entrapped in the cross linked micelles. The leuprolide is released by hydrolysis and the micelles swell in a physiological environment by hydration after partial hydrolysis of the unmodified oligolactate units. Thus the release of the leuprolide and degradation of the micelles occurs parallel. This cleavage can also be the result of local environmental triggers or external stimuli.

The composition and or method of the invention is not limited to the use of polymers that can form micelles. It also allows for the non covalent entrapment and subsequent covalent cross linking of drug molecules in polymeric nanoparticles microspheres hydrogels or coatings.

The vaccine composition of the present invention with antigen and or adjuvant loaded particles are flexible systems that assure the rational design of the antigen and or adjuvant loaded nanoparticle as to target specific cells and or indications e.g. mucus adhesive particle for sustained release of therapeutic or vaccination purposes nasal pulmonary or gastro intestinal tract in case of vaccination with viruslike particle sustained release of antigens and adjuvants loaded nanoparticle.

Leuprolide is a peptide and a rather hydrophilic compound. Controlled release is dependent on the type of linker used 

The particles are made as indicated in example 1 except that L1 is used as degradable linker. X is leuprolide and R S whereas in L2 example 1 R SO. See also WO2012 039602. Body weight and behaviour of rats is evaluated to monitor safety

Data is obtained after i.v. administration to healthy rats. Body weight and behaviour of rats is evaluated to monitor safety.

Cross linked micelles with octreotide are made in the same way as the crosslinked micelles with leuprolide of example 1 or 2. Data is obtained after i.v. administration to healthy rats. Body weight and behaviour of rats is evaluated to monitor safety. Release of octreotide over time is measured as well as PK profile sustained release upon systemic exposure and dose response curve.

Cross linked micelles with exenatide a 39 amino acid peptide are made in the same way as the cross linked micelles with leuprolide of example 1 or 2. Conjugation of the biodegradable linker occurs via amine reactive linker to the lysine moiety of exenatide. Particles with a average size of 64 nm with a PDI of 0.03 were obtained. Release of the exenatide was measured in vitro under physiological condition. Exenatide was released over 4 days.

Adjuvant and antigen are derivatised by the same linker such as L1 or L2. The derivitised adjuvant and antigen are mixed with a thermosensitive polymer PEG b poly N hydroxyalkyl methacrylamide oligolactates with partially methacrylated oligolactate units and cross linked micelles are made essentially as described in example 1. The adjuvant and antigen are both entrapped co valently inside the core of the nanoparticle.

The nanoparticle is purified by vivaspin or tangential flow filtration to remove any unconjugated adjuvant and or antigen resulting in only 1 type of nanoparticle in solution.

The nanoparticle is tested in an animal model by i.v. administration in healthy rats see also example 2. Release over time and PK profile is tested Controls are used Body weight and behaviour of rats is evaluated to monitor safety. Antibody titres are measured.

The particle of the present invention may be prepared in a very controlled way either small down to at least 30 nm and even up to 80 nm. In all cases these particles have a low polydispersity i.e. lower than 0.2 .

Block copolymers with HPMAmDPx theoretical ratio between HPMAmDP1 and HPMAm2 is 53 47 as thermosensitive block and mPEGas hydrophilic block were prepared by free radical polymerisation using mPEG 2 ABCPA as macroinitiator essentially as described previously Biomaterials 28 2007 5581 5593 . In short the concentration of the starting materials monomers plus macroinitiator varying ratios mol mol were prepared was 300 mg mL in acetonitrile in airtight glass vials. The solution was flushed with nitrogen for at least 10 min heated to 70 C. and stirred for 24 h. Next by dropwise addition of the solution to an excess of diethyl ether the polymers were precipitated. After centrifugation the residue was dried in a vacuum oven. Afterwards the polymers were dissolved in water and dialysed membrane with a cut off of 12 14 kDa against water for at least 24 h with recovery by freeze drying.

Subsequently methacrylate groups were coupled to parts of the thermosensitive block of mPEG b p HPMAmDP1 co HPMAmDP2 by reaction of methacrylic anhydride with the terminal hydroxyl groups of the lactate side chains also as previously described.

The obtained polymer lengths were very nicely controlled by using different monomer initiator ratios which in turn determined the particle size as plotted in the .

