---

title: Method for reducing power consumption and electronic device thereof
abstract: Disclosed herein are an electronic device and method for reducing power consumption while roaming. A state of the electronic device is detected. It is determined whether the firmware executes roaming based at least partially on a channel list and a state of the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392540&OS=09392540&RS=09392540
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09392540
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140922
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Oct. 8 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0120133 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for reducing power consumption and an electronic device thereof.

The advancement of communication and semiconductor technologies has resulted in the development of electronic devices that behave as multimedia devices executing various multimedia functions. For example electronic devices today may provide voice communication services video communication services messenger services broadcasting services wireless Internet services camera services and music playback services.

Aspects of the present disclosure address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages. Even if the communication is finished the electronic device consumes the current by roaming.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus and method for minimizing power consumption by roaming using the firmware itself without waking up a host when the firmware determines that the host is in a sleep state.

Other aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus and method for ensuring reliability of data by waking up a host before firmware transmits incoming data to the host and transmitting stored roaming connection information to the host.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method in an electronic device is provided. The method may include analyzing using firmware a channel list for roaming detecting using the firmware a state of the electronic device and determining whether the firmware is to execute the roaming based at least partially on the channel list and a state of the electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device may include at least one processor to analyze a channel list for roaming detecting a state of the electronic device and identify whether to execute the roaming with firmware based at least partially on the channel list and a state of the electronic device.

Examples of the present disclosure will be described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or configurations are not described in detail since they may obscure the disclosure with unnecessary detail.

In one example an electronic device may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may be one or a combination of one or more devices including but not limited to a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace electronic accessories a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wristwatch smart white appliances e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner a cybot a TeleVision TV a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player an audio an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner an electronic picture frame etc. various medical devices e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Artery MRA a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI a CT Computed Tomography an imaging apparatus a ultrasonic machine etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a car infotainment device electronic equipment for ship e.g. a navigation device for ship a gyrocompass etc. avionics a security device electronic clothes an electronic key a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display an electronic album a part of furniture or a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device or a projector. It is understood that the electronic device is not limited to the above described examples.

Referring to the example electronic device denoted by may include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module or a communication module . The bus may be a circuit which may connect the above described components with each other and transmit communication e.g. a control message between the components.

The processor may receive for example commands from the above described other components e.g. the memory the user input module the display module the communication module etc. through the bus decode the received commands and perform calculation or data processing in accordance with the decoded commands.

The memory may store commands or data received from the processor or other components e.g. the user input module the display module the communication module etc. or are generated by the processor or other components. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Herein the above described respective programming modules may be composed of software firmware hardware or combination of at least two or more of them.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. used to execute an operation or function implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface which may access a separate component of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application and control or manage the separate component.

The middleware may facilitate communication such that the API or the application communicates with the kernel and transmits and receives data using middleware . Also the middleware may perform load balancing for work requests using a method of assigning priority which may use system resources the bus the processor or the memory etc. of the electronic device to for example at least one of the plurality of applications in association with the work requests received from the plurality of applications .

The API may be an interface in which the application may control a function provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing or text control.

The user input module may receive for example commands or data from the user and transmit the received commands or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module displays videos images or data to the user.

The communication module may perform communication between the electronic device and another electronic device . The communication module may support a local area communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or certain network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS etc. . Each of the other electronic devices and may be the same e.g. the same type device as the electronic device or a device e.g. a different type which is different from the electronic device .

Referring now to the example hardware denoted by may be for example the electronic device shown in . Referring to the hardware may include one or more processors a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

The processor e.g. the processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor shown in . Although the AP and the CP shown in are shown to be included in the processor they may be included in different IC packages respectively. In one example the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP may execute an Operating System OS or an application program control a plurality of hardware or software components connected thereto and process and calculate various data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented as for example System on Chip SoC . In one example the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The CP may perform a function for managing a data link in communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware with other electronic devices connected with the electronic device through a network and changing a communication protocol. The CP may be implemented as for example SoC. In a further example the CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP may identify and authenticate for example a terminal in a communication network using an SIM e.g. the SIM card . Also the CP may provide services such as a voice communication service a video communication service a text message service or a packet data service to a user of the hardware .

Also the CP may control data transmission and reception of the communication module . In components such as the CP the power management module or the memory are shown as components which are separated from the AP . However in a further example the AP may be implemented to include at least a part e.g. the CP of the above described components.

In another example the AP or the CP may load and process commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or another component connected thereto to a volatile memory. Also the AP or the CP may store data which are received from at least one of other components or are generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory.

The SIM card may be a card implementing an SIM. The SIM card may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentity ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory shown in . The internal memory may include but is not limited to at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM or a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. an One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a PROM an erasable PROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable PROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory etc. . In yet a further example the internal memory may have a type of a Solid State Disk SSD . The external memory may further include for example at least one of a Compact Flash CF card a Secure Digital SD card a micro SD card a mini SD card an extreme Digital xD card or a memory stick etc.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module shown in . The wireless communication module may include for example a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module or an NFC module . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using RFs. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card or a modem etc. for connecting the hardware with the network e.g. the Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a POTS etc. .

The RF module may be in charge of transmitting and receiving data for example an RF signal or a called electronic signal. Although it is not shown in the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amplifier Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA etc. Also the RF module may further include components for example conductors or conducting wires for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves on a free space in wireless communication.

The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Also the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or sense an operation state of the electronic device and convert the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an Electronic noise E nose sensor not shown an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor not shown an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor not shown an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The user input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module shown in . The touch panel may recognize touch input by for example at least one of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type or an ultrasonic type. Also the touch panel may further include a controller not shown . In case of the capacity type the touch panel may recognize not only direct touch input but also proximity touch input. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using the same or similar method as or to a method of receiving touch input of the user or using a separate sheet for recognition. The key may be for example a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input device is a device which may sense sound waves using a microphone e.g. the microphone and verify data in the electronic device through a pen which generates ultrasonic waves. The ultrasonic input device may perform wireless recognition. In one example the hardware may receive input of the user from an external device e.g. the network of a computer or the server of connected with the communication module using the communication module .

The display module may include a panel or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module shown in . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED etc. Also the panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated with each other to constitute one module. The hologram shows stereoscopic images on the air using interference of light. In a further example the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a projector or a D sub subminiature interface . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Secure Digital MultiMedia Card SD MMC interface not shown or an Infrared Data Association IrDA interface not shown .

The audio codec may convert voices and electronic signals in a two way direction. The audio codec may convert for example voice information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

The camera module may be a device which may capture images and videos. In another example the camera module may include for example one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a rear lens not shown an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the hardware . Although it is not shown in the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted in for example an IC or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method of the power management module may be classified into a wire charging method or a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. In a further example the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wire charging method or the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method is for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic wave method. In the wireless charging method additional circuits for example a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc. for wireless charging may be added.

The battery fuel gauge may measure for example the remaining capacity of the battery voltage in charging current or a temperature. The battery may generate electricity and supply power. For example the battery may be a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may indicate a specific state for example a booting state a message state or a charging state etc. of the hardware or a part of the hardware e.g. the AP . The motor may convert an electric signal into a mechanical vibration. A Micro Control Unit MCU may control the sensor module .

Although it is not shown in the hardware may further include a processing device e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV may process media data in accordance with for example the standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Names of the above described hardware components may differ in different kinds of electronic devices. The hardware may be configured to include at least one of the above described components. Some components of the hardware may be omitted or the hardware may further include other additional components. Also in another example some of the components of the hardware may be combined and configured as one entity. Therefore the one device may equally perform functions of the corresponding components before some of the components are combined.

Referring now to the example programming framework denoted by may be included e.g. stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory shown in . At least a part of the programming module may be configured by software firmware hardware or combination of two or more of them. The programming module may include an OS which is implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware of and controls resources related to an electronic device e.g. the electronic device or a plurality of applications e.g. an application executed in the OS which may include a home dialer SMS MMS IM browser camera alarm contact voice dial e mail calendar media player album and clock . For example the OS may be Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen or Bada etc. Referring to the programming module may include a kernel middleware an API or the application .

The kernel e.g. the kernel may include a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager may include for example a process management unit a memory management unit or a file system management unit etc. The system resource manager may control assign or collect etc. system resources. The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver or an audio driver. Also in a further example the device driver may include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware may include a plurality of modules which are previously implemented to provide functions the application needs in common. Also the middleware may provide functions through the API such that the application uses limited system resources in the electronic device efficiently. For example as shown in the middleware e.g. the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module used by a compiler to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. In one example the runtime library may perform a function for input and output memory management or an arithmetic function.

The application manager may manage for example a life cycle of at least one of the applications . The window manager may manage Graphic User Interface GUI resources used on a screen of the electronic device. The multimedia manager may ascertain a format necessary for reproducing various media files and encode or decode a media file using a codec corresponding to the corresponding format. The resource manager may manage source codes of at least one of the applications and manage resources of a memory or storage.

The power manager may act with a Basic Input Output System BIOS manage a battery or a power source and provide power information necessary for an operation. The database manager may perform a management operation to generate search or change a database to be used in at least one of the applications . The package manager may manage installation or update of an application distributed by a type of a package file.

The connectivity manager may manage for example wireless connection such as Wi Fi or BT etc. The notification manager may display or notify events such as an arrival message an appointment and proximity notification by a method which is not disturbed to the user. The location manager may manage location information of the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage a graphic effect to be provided to the user or a UI related to the graphic effect. The security manager may provide all security functions necessary for system security or user authentication etc. In one example when the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a phone function the middleware may further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video communication function of the electronic device.

The middleware may generate and use a new middleware module through combination of various functions of the above described internal component modules. The middleware may provide a module which specializes while being classified in accordance with a kind of OS to provide a differentiated function. Also the middleware may dynamically delete some of old components or add new components. Also some of components described in the present disclosure may be omitted other components may be further added or components having different names for performing similar functions may be replaced.

The API e.g. the API as a set of API programming functions may be provided as different components in accordance with the OS. For example in case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided while being classified according to platforms. In case of Tizen for example two or more API sets may be provided.

The application e.g. the application may include for example a preload application or a third party application.

At least a part of the programming module may be implemented as instructions stored in non transitory computer readable media. When the instructions are executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The non transitory computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be for example implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process etc. for performing one or more functions.

Names of the components of the programming module e.g. the programming module may differ in accordance with differences in the OS. Also in one example the programming module may include at least one or more of components. Some of the components may be omitted. The programming module may further include additional other components.

Referring now to an example electronic device may complete initial connection with a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server block . In particular the electronic device may establish an initial connection with the DHCP server located in the same sub net.

Thereafter a driver included in the electronic device may transmit a channel list for roaming to the firmware block . Although it is not shown in the driver or a supplicant of the electronic device may transmit a key value such as a Pairwise Master Key PMK and a DHCP link list which are acquired in initial connection to the firmware. Also the supplicant included in the electronic device may transmit a Basic Service Set Identifier BSSID list of an Access Point AP which shares the DHCP server currently connected with the electronic device. Also when an update of the DHCP link list is generated after transmitting the DHCP link list to the firmware the supplicant included in the electronic device may transmit the updated DHCP link list to the firmware periodically.

The firmware included in the electronic device may perform a roaming connection block . In particular while the firmware monitors a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI and a beacon periodically an authenticator included in the firmware may perform an authenticator operation for a roaming connection an association operation and a 4 way handshaking operation.

The firmware included in the electronic device may identify whether a host is in a sleep state block . In particular the firmware may determine whether the host or electronic device including the driver the supplicant etc. is in the sleep state.

If the host is in a wake state the firmware may transmit roaming connection information to the host block . In one example when the host is in the wake state the firmware may transmit the roaming connection information to the supplicant. No current is necessary for waking the electronic device since it is already in the wake state.

The supplicant included in the electronic device may synchronize the roaming connection information and update an Information Provider IP block . In particular the supplicant may receive roaming connection information from the firmware synchronize the roaming connection information and update an IP.

If it is determined that the host is in the sleep state in block the firmware may determine whether a BSSID of a currently roamed AP is included in the DHCP link list block . That is in order to determine whether the firmware is to execute the roaming the firmware may determine whether the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is included in the DHCP link list.

If it is determined that the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is not included in the DHCP link list in block the firmware may wake the host block . Because a DHCP differs when the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is not included in the DHCP link list the firmware wakes the host and the supplicant of the electronic device updates the IP.

The firmware may transmit the roaming connection information to the host block . In one example the firmware may transmit the roaming connection information to the supplicant such that the supplicant may synchronize the roaming connection information and update an IP block .

If it is determined that the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is included in the DHCP link list in block the firmware may store the roaming connection information after completing the roaming operation block .

Referring now to firmware included in the electronic device may complete the roaming block . In particular when it is determined that an operation state of the electronic device is in a sleep state the firmware may store roaming connection information after roaming.

The firmware included in the electronic device may verify that incoming data is generated block . For example after the firmware completes the roaming the electronic device may verify that the incoming data is generated e.g. a voice call etc. from another electronic device .

The firmware included in the electronic device may wake the host block . In one example the firmware may wake the electronic device before the input data is transmitted to the supplicant. Furthermore the firmware included in the electronic device may transmit stored roaming connection information to the host block . In particular the firmware may transmit the latest connection information stored through the roaming it performed to the supplicant of the electronic device. In turn the supplicant may synchronize the roaming connection information and update an IP block . That is the supplicant may receive the roaming connection information from the firmware synchronize the roaming connection information before data communication and update the IP.

Thereafter the firmware included in the electronic device may transmit the incoming data to a driver of the electronic device block . In turn the electronic device may synchronize the roaming connection information and receive a call from another electronic device using the updated IP.

Referring now to firmware included in the electronic device may complete the roaming block . In particular when it is determined that the electronic device is in a sleep state the firmware may store roaming connection information after completing the roaming.

Thereafter the electronic device may receive an instruction to wake block . For example after the firmware completes the roaming the electronic device may receive the instruction to wake from a user.

A driver of the electronic device may request the firmware to transmit roaming connection information block . The firmware included in the electronic device may transmit the stored roaming connection information to the supplicant block . In turn the supplicant included in the electronic device may synchronize the roaming connection information and update an IP block . That is the supplicant may receive the roaming connection information from the firmware synchronize the roaming connection information before data communication and update the IP. Furthermore the driver included in the electronic device may transmit input data to the firmware block .

Referring now to firmware of the electronic device may perform an operation for roaming using a channel list received by the electronic device block . The firmware may analyze the channel list received by the electronic device and carry out the roaming. In one example while the firmware monitors an RSSI and a beacon periodically an authenticator included in the firmware may perform an authenticator operation for roaming connection an association operation and a 4 way handshaking operation.

Furthermore the firmware of the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is in a sleep state block . That is the firmware included in the electronic device may determine whether to perform the roaming connection when the host is in the sleep state instead of other components in the electronic device.

Thereafter the firmware of the electronic device may determine whether it is to perform the roaming based at least partially on a state of the host block .

If the host is in a wake state the firmware may transmit roaming connection information to the supplicant. In addition the supplicant included in the electronic device may synchronize the roaming connection information and update an IP.

The firmware may determining that the host is in the sleep state by determining whether a BSSID of a currently roamed AP is included in a DHCP link list. When the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is not included in the DHCP link list the firmware may wake the host. Since the DHCP differs the firmware wakes the device and the device proceeds to IP update. When the BSSID of the currently roamed AP is included in the DHCP link list the firmware may store the roaming connection information after the firmware completes the roaming.

The above described examples of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor or microprocessor constitute hardware in the claimed invention. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101. The functions and process steps herein may be performed automatically or wholly or partially in response to user command. An activity including a step performed automatically is performed in response to executable instruction or device operation without user direct initiation of the activity.

Although the disclosure herein has been described with reference to particular examples it is to be understood that these examples are merely illustrative of the principles of the disclosure. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the examples and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore while particular processes are shown in a specific order in the appended drawings such processes are not limited to any particular order unless such order is expressly set forth herein rather processes may be performed in a different order or concurrently and steps may be added or omitted.

