---

title: Enhanced near field communications attachment
abstract: A secure fob that enables a user to pay for an item or items without needing to present a mobile device. A secure fob may include a proximity capability to ensure that a mobile device is within a particular range, thereby eliminating the risk of fraudulent charges on a stolen fob. In such an embodiment, a fob may be disabled if the fob is not paired with the mobile device by virtue of being disconnected and/or physically separated from the mobile device. The secure fob also may include enhanced features to authorize transactions and locate the mobile device and/or the secure fob.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105025&OS=09105025&RS=09105025
owner: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORPORATION
number: 09105025
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140529
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 538 468 filed Jun. 29 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 441 505 filed Apr. 6 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 570 275 filed Dec. 13 2011 and 61 547 910 filed Oct. 17 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing enhanced features for contactless payment with a Near Field Communications attachment.

Near Field Communications or NFC allows for wireless communication between two devices in close proximity to each other. Existing NFC devices provide limited functionality for contactless payments using a digital wallet but are restrictive and difficult to implement for a number of reasons.

Current digital wallet solutions require channeling all transactions through a defined group of stakeholders thus increasing cost and complexity of each transaction. Further current digital wallet solutions require that a mobile device be pre manufactured with specific hardware already included thus excluding hundreds of millions of existing devices from using a digital wallet solution.

Moreover current proximity attachments such as key finders or fobs provide a proximity attachment enabling a proximity connection to for example a mobile device. But these key finders do not have payment capabilities. The key finders also are not tied to bank security.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the embodiments described by providing a number of specific exemplary embodiments and details involving systems and methods for providing contactless payment with a NFC attachment. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in various embodiments depending on specific design and other needs. A financial institution and system supporting a financial institution are used as examples for the disclosure. The disclosure is not intended to be limited to financial institutions only.

According to the various embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods enable an approach to contactless payments using an attachment to a mobile device. Such attachments may include for example and not by way of limitation a contactless payment attachment that plugs into an audio jack or plug of a mobile device and or a fob that connects to a mobile device and or the like. The exemplary use of mobile device throughout the application is only by way of example and the attachment may also be used with personal computers automobiles televisions gaming systems or any other device capable of making an audio jack connection. The attachment may also plug into any jack of a mobile device capable of transmitting audio and or data information for instance a 2.5 mm audio jack a 3.5 mm or inch audio jack a multipronged audio jack or other audio connection. The attachment may also utilize various other connections available on mobile devices for example mini USB micro USB memory card slots proprietary ports such as for example a dock connector on a mobile device e.g. the dock connector on an Apple iPhone iPod or iPad and or low energy wireless connections such as e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy Technology. In various embodiments the attachment approach to contactless payment could be provided in an online environment whereby for example a mobile device such as a smartphone audio player tablet or other mobile device with an attachment according to the various embodiments could send and receive data via a communication network sufficient to enable a contactless transaction including a contactless payment transaction. The attachment could also be used in an offline manner whereby an attachment could connect to the mobile device alone and used regardless of whether the mobile device is connected to a communication network at the time of use. This attachment could eliminate the need for a consumer to purchase a mobile device with special hardware enable a user to quickly and cost effectively add contactless payment features to their mobile device and or enable a user or financial institution to bypass traditional stakeholders in the payment process.

The attachment may be for example and not by way of limitation an audio plug jack based attachment for mobile devices smartphones or other personal digital assistants e.g. tablet computers music players etc. In one embodiment this attachment may be operable with any mobile device PDA class device or smartphone that includes an audio jack or plug. The mobile device may run software or firmware for example an app that works with the dongle to enable mobile payments. The attachment may perform similar functions to existing digital wallet solutions without the trouble of strict hardware requirements or needing to use a specific intermediary for a transaction. The attachment may provide a pass through or other addition to provide traditional audio functionality music calling etc. while the attachment is in use. In some embodiments the attachment may allow the pass through audio signal to be suspended or terminated during use of the NFC portion of the attachment.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may be either self powered or powered by the mobile device that it may be attached or otherwise connected to. For example the attachment may include a battery such as for example a small coin cell battery which may enable enhanced functions associated with the attachment. The attachment also may derive power from the mobile device through the audio jack. In one embodiment the attachment may plug into or otherwise connect to a personal computer or other source for initial provisioning of payment credentials. For example the attachment may connect to a mobile device and or personal computer via a short range wireless connection such as a Bluetooth Low Energy Technology connection. In an embodiment NFC secure element provisioning may occur prior to issuance of the attachment. For example a user may provision an attachment once the attachment is obtained by the user. A user may contact a financial institution who will then activate the attachment. The attachment may be activated by standard methods including but not by way of limitation using a trusted service manager TSM Know Your Customer KYC through the mobile device over the phone or other provisioning process. In one embodiment the provisioning may be completed before the user obtains the attachment. Additionally the attachment may be provisioned for multiple financial accounts. This may be completed by provisioning the device to store each account or by using the mobile device to re provision the attachment each time a purchase is desired with a different account. The provisioning process may securely pass encrypted credit card details or other credentials to the secure element such as the credit card account number expiration date and other track data.

Also an attachment may be provisioned for credit cards debit cards prepaid cards or any other payment vehicle available to customers companies or financial institutions. The attachment also may be provisioned to store other valuable data such as for example health credentials and other like personal information. The attachment may be provisioned with or without user interaction by the customer or financial institution and any other acceptable method of provisioning. The attachment may be provisioned over the air or via a wireless or wired connection. The provisioning may occur by receiving a signal from a trusted service manager TSM .

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may contain an NFC antenna and secure element SE . The SE may be a hardware chip specially designed to be tamper proof. In one embodiment the SE may be used for digitally and physically secure storage of sensitive data including payment data health records car key identifiers etc. The SE may for example store information related to a person customer financial institution or other entity. In certain implementations the SE may also store information related to a financial account such as for example a credit card number debit account number or other account identifier. The SE may include a computer processor or other computational hardware or software. As one example the secure element may contain the Visa and MasterCard applications for PayWave and PayPass transactions.

The Secure Element may have the ability to securely store various credentials. In one embodiment the credentials may comprise credit card information. The credentials may expand beyond credit card payment info for use over NFC. As one example the information stored on the Secure Element may be used to auto complete on line checkouts or enable purchases in other third party applications. The Secure Element may also store keys building access information drivers licenses passwords loyalty card information gift card information transaction history reward information ATM access information addresses documents pictures or other data objects. The secure element may be capable of generating a Dynamic Card Security Code such as a Dynamic Card Verification Value CVV3 or other security code.

The attachment may also take on multiple different form factors including but not by way of limitation those forms that have sufficient space for company branding or logos. The attachment may take any shape capable of acting as an attachment. The attachment may be made as small as possible to be unobtrusive or be made to have one or more dimensions similar to the mobile device it is attached to. In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may be square or have any other shape or ornamental design.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may include software and application programming interfaces APIs to enable remote and local provisioning of the SE use of NFC antenna payments enablement and attachment security management e.g. long range deactivation . In an exemplary embodiment the system may include a user interface and software for an associated user access to uses of the SE the NFC antenna and any other portion of the attachment for use in any manner of application desired by user or intended for by issuer. The system and software may allow for multiple cards accounts or other information portions to be stored in the secure element and may allow simultaneous access to all or switch between the individual options.

In an embodiment the system may include an application and or user interface that enables end user control for NFC transmission of payment data through an audio plug. The application may operate on the mobile device or on an external controller or device. Also the system may include APIs that allow access to the NFC antenna and secure element for enabling disabling locking initial provisioning updates emergency turnoff and other operations. The attachment may be provisioned to store information for multiple accounts multiple cards loyalty cards or any other financial information. The attachment may require a payment initiation action enable the attachment for use. For example the attachment may require a user to enter a PIN code or other identifying information to enable the attachment for user. Additionally the attachment may stay unlocked and a payment initiation action may comprise a user bumping touching or otherwise holding or positioning the device near a sensor. The attachment may then lock after use or after a certain time after enabling. In one exemplary embodiment the attachment may provide a physical switch button or other way to enable or unlock the attachment. For example and not by way of limitation a user may press a button and enter a PIN code in order to activate or unlock the attachment. Additionally the physical switch or button may be used in place of a PIN code or other functionality. Additionally the device may use any other type of unlocking or enabling the attachment for example and not by way of limitation a physical gesture touch or swipe motion by a user. Also the system may permit the use of a cryptographic protocol e.g. secure sockets layer to establish a secure channel for data transmission. Upon a transaction the attachment may transmit information regarding the transaction through the audio jack to the mobile device.

The application and user interface may leverage transaction data gained from the attachment wireless data connection over the air data connection or other means of data transmission. For example the application and user interface may leverage information about the products and or services being purchased information about the account or the account holder information about the merchant and or other parties involved in a transaction rewards information promotional information advertising information or other useful information.

In an exemplary embodiment the system may provide capability to securely enable an attachment through hardware identifiers like the UDID e.g. device ID on an Apple iPhone or other mobile device . For example upon obtaining an attachment a user may pair that attachment with a specific device by programming the attachment with a hardware identifier thus ensuring that the attachment can only be used with that device. In some embodiments the user may pair an attachment with multiple devices or change the pairing of an attachment. Also the system may add authentication layers by utilizing embedded serial numbers location based analytics transaction count mechanisms and other layers intended to avoid sniffing or otherwise compromising the secure payment capabilities. Also the system may lock the attachment or otherwise prevent some or all functionality if the attachment disconnected from an audio jack.

In an exemplary embodiment software on the mobile device may be partially or wholly locked or disable if the attachment is removed or unpaired. For example and not by way of limitation a user may not be permitted to make a certain higher risk financial transaction such as a balance transfer without the attachment plugged in. In this way the attachment may be used as an added layer of physical security for operations on the mobile device.

The connection between the mobile device and attachment may serve to transmit power sufficient to power the NFC antenna the secure element or any part of the attachment or the entire attachment through the audio jack plug of the mobile device. Also the connection may include a process to provision a secure element through audio jack plug. Also the connection may include a process for binding an audio jack plug to one or more specific phone identifiers i.e. UDID Unique Device ID .

In an exemplary embodiment the system may enable Industry Standard NFC Payment Transmission. For example the attachment may enable two loop antennas to form an air core transformer when placed near one another by using magnetic induction. The system may operate at 13.56 MHz or any other acceptable frequency. Also the attachment may provide for a passive communication mode where the initiator device provides a carrier field permitting answers by the target device via modulation of existing fields. Additionally the attachment may also provide for an active communication mode by allowing alternate field generation by the initiator and target devices.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may deactivate the RF field while awaiting data. The attachment may use Miller type coding with varying modulations including 100 modulation. The attachment may also use Manchester coding with varying modulations including a modulation ratio of 10 . Additionally the attachment may be capable of receiving and transmitting data at the same time as well as checking for potential collisions when the transmitted signal and received signal frequencies differ.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may be capable of utilizing standardized transmission protocols for example but not by way of limitation ISO IEC 14443 A B ISO IEC 18092 MiFare FeliCa tag smartcard emulation and the like. Also the attachment may be able to utilize transmission protocols and methods that are developed in the future using other frequencies or modes of transmission. The attachment may also be backwards compatible with existing payment techniques for example RFID. Also the system may support transmission requirements to meet new and evolving payment standards including internet based transmission triggered by NFC. In one embodiment the attachment in conjunction with the software may utilize PayPass or PayWave systems to enable transactions.

In one embodiment the attachment may include a magnetic stripe reader for intaking data from credit cards debit cards gift cards loyalty cards identification cards and any other object utilizing a magnetic stripe.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may be used to provide offers to a user. These offers may be related to transactions made with the attachment and may include discounts advertising coupons or any other offer. The offers may also be based on transaction history frequency or location. The offers may also be based on a user s indicated desires or the location of a user. Information related to the offer may be received from the NFC antenna or over any other data connection. For example a user could use the attachment to purchase a pair of pants and the attachment and software alone or in combination with a point of sale PoS device could present an advertisement or offer to purchase a matching shirt belt and or socks. The PoS device may transmit purchase information to the attachment which may then transmit the information to the phone. The software may utilize the phone s data connection to download additional information or offers. As an example and not by way of limitation the software may automate post transaction purchases via an online merchant e.g. cables from an online retailer may be promoted or offered following a purchase at a large retail store and optionally provide a user an option to select a related product the user would like to purchase from a list of options this may provide a reduced merchandise selection that is presumably more relevant. Additionally the offers may be selected by incorporating information from other sources for example using previously shown offers past user transactions consumer preference settings geographic travel patterns or any other information. The offers may also be presented when transactions are identified through other methods such as using scanned receipts photographs of a purchased products downloaded transaction records or other ways to identify a product or service purchased by a user. The software may further present a display the effect of an offer to a user s statement in real time or either before or after the offer is accepted or rejected.

In an exemplary embodiment the software in conjunction with the attachment may present information to a user. Also the information may be related to a recent transaction. In some embodiments the software may present a related or complementary product advertisement. Also the software may present offers or follow on pitches related to a purchase or transaction. Additionally the software may provide budgeting information credit limit information alternative warranty offers and or alternative purchase terms such as an offer for a payment plan or dynamic term loan for a given purchase. The software may also allow downloads and or presentation of additional materials related to a transaction such as receipts warranty information and or product manuals. The software may allow for real time use of reward points and or card linked offers e.g. spend x and we ll take y off your credit card statement and may allow for a real time message broadcast notifying the user of any savings.

In one embodiment the software in conjunction with the attachment may provide budgeting functionality. The software may provide real time information to a user regarding transactions made with the attachment or other transactions for example the software may display to a user the amount of money spent in a given category or at a given location.

In an exemplary embodiment the software and attachment may provide for process for determining an offer of installment lending related to a transaction from the mobile phone. For example the software and attachment may when a user makes a transaction offer the user an installment loan to cover that purchase. This loan may differ from terms of any other credit account the user possesses. The offer may emphasize dynamic loan terms such as duration rate or eligibility based on creditworthiness including links to credit card statement data and other account information as the basis for underwriting.

In an exemplary embodiment the software and attachment may allow for social networking functionality. In some embodiments a user may check in to a location without making a purchase by using the attachment to transmit data to from a PoS like check in station at a location. Also the software may enable social network updates postings or other functionality based on a check in or purchase.

In another embodiment the software and attachment may allow a number of options to a user. For example the software and attachment may provide a user the option to the user to use Financial institution transaction history Loyalty cards On line mobile commerce Deals Offers Coupons Gift Cards Insurance Cards Store Passwords Provisioning for other credit cards Driver s licenses Peer to Peer payments tap two attachments together to transfer payment Check in when you enter the store Social Media check in notice of what was bought etc. Product information from tapping on an item Real time display of upsell and cross sell items Warranty Upsell optionally utilizing SKU level data Manuals for product optionally utilizing SKU level data Receipts optionally utilizing SKU level data and or Accepting NFC payments.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may not require a PoS system to make an NFC payment. As one example the attachment may allow a user to make contact with another attachment or like device in order to complete a payment. The attachment may be used in this way to allow the user to make a transaction with a commercial entity or another user. As one example a user may repay an amount borrowed from another user by bumping or bringing two attachments near one another.

In an exemplary embodiment the NFC attachment may enable the payments through network data transmission over the air or through standard terminal routing. For example the attachment may use NFC or other mode of communication as a trigger for an internet based payment wire transfer electronic funds transfer or other financial transaction.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may work in conjunction with a token based payment solution. The token may be transmitted through the above detailed near field communications method or by any other suitable method such as barcode or quick response code scanning. Closed loop verification may be enabled by allowing a financial institution to both issue the token and approve the transaction. Such embodiments may provide for example a token based dynamic solution to contactless payments. In various embodiments the token based solution could be provided in an online environment whereby for example a mobile device such as a smartphone could receive a token in real time via a communication network. The token based solution could also be used in an offline manner whereby a previously provided token could be used for a certain period of time regardless of whether the smartphone is connected to a communication network at the time of use. In effect the tokens could serve as single use or limited use credit card numbers.

The token based solution could also allow credit card issuers for example or any other token issuer to set different types of parameters around the token. For example transaction limits use limits time limits and the like could be applied to the tokens. In other words exemplary tokens could apply only to transactions of 100 or less and or only to 3 separate transactions before it expires and only for 3 days. The attachment may operate without utilizing tokens.

In an exemplary embodiment the attachment may be a secure fob that enables a user to pay for an item or items without needing to present a mobile device. A secure fob may include a proximity capability to ensure that a mobile device is within a particular range thereby eliminating the risk of fraudulent charges on a stolen fob. In such an embodiment a fob may be disabled if the fob is not paired with the mobile device by virtue of being disconnected and or physically separated from the mobile device. Accordingly the secure connection provides security because a stolen or misplaced attachment may not operate absent the proximity connection to the mobile device.

In an exemplary embodiment a secure attachment or fob may provide a convenient mobile solution with for example existing mobile devices while not having to plug the secure attachment or fob into the mobile device. The secure attachment or fob also may include enhanced features that allow a user to locate keys attached to the fob and or the mobile device. For example the secure attachment or fob may include a button or like device that can activate a mobile device finder feature in the mobile device. In such an embodiment the combination of the key mobile device finder feature and the mobile payment attachment allow for enhancements that each individual feature

In an exemplary a secure attachment or fob may include a RSA generator that may be transmitted to for example the mobile device to be used in for example high risk transactions. Also an identity contained in the secure attachment or fob may be used by a customer to log into for example mobile banking applications associated with the secure attachment or fob.

Mobile device may include for example a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card and an App Processor. A SIM card may be an integrated circuit that securely stores the service subscriber key IMSI used to identify a subscriber on mobile telephony devices such as mobile phones and computers . Mobile device may connect to attachment . This attachment may be by way of a plug in connection to an audio jack on the mobile device . Information may be transmitted from the attachment to the device by encoding the transaction data as audio data and sending through the connection to be received by the mobile device s microphone. Processors within the mobile device may then process the data as appropriate by decoding the data encrypting the data sending the data to a third party storing the data or other appropriate operation as needed. The attachment may contain an embedded NFC chip that can send encrypted data a short distance near field to a reader located for instance next to a Point of Sale PoS device or like retail cash register that enables contactless payments. An app processor not shown may enable execution of software applications on mobile device . In one embodiment the app processor may be a computer processor or other processing device adapted for use in a mobile device. In various embodiments app processor may cooperate with attachment to enable contactless payment using mobile device . In various exemplary embodiments the hardware contained in the attachment may be partially or wholly redundant with the hardware inside the mobile device . Reader may then communicate or otherwise transfer the data to and from payment networks . This transfer may be performed through a wireless connection over the air connection wired connection or through standard terminal routing.

Network may enable communication between mobile device issuer and merchant . For example Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Time Division Multiplexing TDM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

Issuer system may include for example a token manager an account database a communication module and an authorization module . Token manager may generate maintain and provide information relating to the tokens used in the software based solution for contactless payments. In various embodiments token manager may be integrated into issuer system as depicted in . Token manager may also be a third party system that works in cooperation with issuer system to generate maintain and provide tokens for use in the software based solution for contactless payments. Account database may maintain information relating to the accounts of customers associated with an issuer. As referred to herein an issuer may include for example a credit card issuer or any other issuer of tokens for contactless payment. These tokens may enable additional security during NFC contactless payment transactions. Account database may also include an association of tokens with respective customers. For example account database may include an association of a token 123456 with account number 1234 5678 9012 3456 which belongs to John Q. Cardholder. As will be described in more detail below account database may be accessed for authorizing transactions and or payment requests.

Communication module may enable communication between the components of system . Communication module may include hardware software and firmware that may enable communication between an issuer system and other components of system using network for example.

Authorization module may include business logic used to determine whether a transaction or payment request should be authorized. For example authorization module may include executable programs that determine whether the token is associated with the correct mobile device and or issuer account and whether the token use is within the limiting parameters before authorizing a particular transaction. Authorization module may cooperate with communication module to communicate authorization decisions to merchant and or mobile device .

Merchant may include a Point of Sale PoS device and a payment processing system . In various embodiments PoS device may be any device that may receive NFC communication for example and can be utilized to process payment transactions. PoS device may be for example PoS devices made by VeriFone and or any other like devices. PoS device may permit transmittal provisioning issuance or other similar action with a number of different programs for example loyalty and rewards programs advertising programs promotional programs gift programs etc. For example PoS device may enable two loop antennas to form an air core transformer when placed near one another by using magnetic induction. The system may operate at 13.56 MHz or any other acceptable frequency. Also PoS device may provide for a passive communication mode where the initiator device provides a carrier field permitting answers by the target device via modulation of existing fields. Additionally PoS device may also provide for an active communication mode by allowing alternate field generation by the initiator and target devices.

In an exemplary embodiment PoS device may deactivate the RF field while awaiting data. PoS device may use Miller type coding with varying modulations including 100 modulation. PoS device may also use Manchester coding with varying modulations including a modulation ration of 10 . Additionally PoS device may be capable of receiving and transmitting data at the same time as well as checking for potential collisions when the transmitted signal and received signal frequencies differ.

In an exemplary embodiment PoS device may be capable of utilizing standardized transmission protocols for example but not by way of limitation ISO IEC 14443 A B ISO IEC 18092 MiFare FeliCa tag smartcard emulation and the like. Also PoS device may be able to utilize transmission protocols and methods that are developed in the future using other frequencies or modes of transmission. PoS device may also be backwards compatible with existing payment techniques for example RFID. Also the system may support transmission requirements to meet new and evolving payment standards including internet based transmission triggered by NFC.

Payment processing system may allow merchant to request and process payments for example. Payment processing system may utilize network to communicate payment requests to issuer system and receive authorization requests. In doing so payment processing system may transmit information to issuer system using for example networks maintained by Visa MasterCard Discover American Express and the like. Also payment system may be capable of communicating token information using data standards defined by the above described networks. To make a payment with the system a user may place the attachment near the PoS device thus enabling data transmission via NFC.

In block a customer may initiate a request for a token. In various embodiments a customer may tap the mobile device and attachment to a PoS device for example to initiate the request for a token at the time of a transaction. A customer may also initiate a request by requesting a token through a mobile payments application using a mobile device. Also the token used in may be account information that would normally be transferred in a simple credit card swipe transaction already stored in the attachment and the request may be handled within the attachment and mobile device environment.

In block the token may be sent to a customer s mobile device. For example a token manager may send a token to mobile device using a communication network and or various communications similar to those described in . Also the transfer of the token may be handled within the attachment and mobile device environment.

In block a customer may provide the token to a PoS device. This token could be provided at the time of purchase. Upon receipt of the token the merchant using a payment processing system for example in cooperation with the PoS device may format the token into a data format that may be utilized by one of the various authorization networks. For example an exemplary 6 digit token may be inserted into one of the tracks of data utilized by the Visa network to transmit and receive data. As noted above the token provided may also represent simple account information such as the information that would be transferred by a credit card swipe transaction.

In block the merchant may send the token to the issuer for authorization. For example the merchant may send a token to the issuer using a communication network and or various communications similar to those described in . As noted above the token provided may also represent simple account information such as the information that would be transferred by a credit card swipe transaction.

In block the issuer and or token manager may verify the token and or transaction utilizing the token. For example the issuer may use the token to look up the account of the customer and determine whether the transaction should be authorized. As noted above the token provided may also represent simple account information such as the information that would be transferred by a credit card swipe transaction. The issuer and or token manager may also check the token against certain parameters to determine for example whether the transaction complies with certain parameters or the token has expired. In various embodiments the issuer and or token manager may receive and utilize location information or identification information associated with the customer s mobile device to determine whether to authorize the transaction. For example the issuer and or token manager may receive and utilize the MAC address of a mobile device and or the merchant location to determine whether to authorize the transaction.

In block a customer may initiate a payment. In various embodiments a customer may utilize software on the mobile device to signal that a payment is to be made. For example the customer may select an option to pay or the customer may be presented with various options for payment including for example the account the customer desires to use for the transaction the type of transaction the amount of the transaction the time that the attachment should wait for the transaction and or the merchant targeted in the transaction. Also the attachment may be enabled for payments through a button or other interface on the attachment itself or the attachment may always accept payments without user interaction beyond placing the mobile device and or attachment near a PoS device or other sensor.

In block the attachment may send payment information to the PoS device via the near field communication techniques described above. In an exemplary embodiment the payment information may comprise encrypted information information similar to that transmitted in a credit card swipe transaction or a message the payment process is ongoing. The payment information may comprise a dynamic card verification value CVV3 generated at the time of the transaction. For example the system may transmit encrypted information representing a customer s account with a financial institution to the PoS device. The payment information transmitted to a PoS device may be a message stating that the transaction is processing and the mobile device may communicate further information to either the PoS device or another party or device via a non NFC connection. Upon receipt of the payment information the merchant using a payment processing system for example in cooperation with the PoS device may format the payment information into a data format that may be utilized by one of the various authorization networks. For example the payment information may be inserted into one or more of the tracks of data utilized by the Visa network to transmit and receive data. As noted above the information provided may also represent simple account information such as the information that would be transferred by a credit card swipe transaction.

In block a merchant may send the payment information to issuer for authorization. For example the merchant may send a token to the issuer using a communication network and or various communications similar to those described in . In an exemplary embodiment the information sent to the issuer may comprise a token as described above encrypted information representing a financial account the amount of the transaction and or other information necessary to initiate a payment. The information may be sent as received from the attachment mobile device or may be formatted as described above.

In block the issuer may verify the payment information. For example the issuer may use the payment information to look up the account of the customer and determine whether the transaction should be authorized. The issuer and or token manager may also check the payment information against certain parameters to determine for example whether the transaction complies with certain parameters or the token has expired. In various embodiments the issuer may receive and utilize location information or identification information associated with the customer s mobile device to determine whether to authorize the transaction. For example the issuer may receive and utilize the MAC address of a mobile device and or the merchant location to determine whether to authorize the transaction.

In block the issuer may communicate the authorization to the merchant. In block the transaction may be processed. The merchant or PoS device may send a payment confirmation message to the attachment.

In block the system may present payment confirmation to the customer. The confirmation may be presented via the display of the mobile device the speaker of the mobile device a signal lamp on the mobile device or by a light or sound message from the attachment itself. The confirmation may comprise a simple notice that the transaction was completed and may optionally provide information summarizing the transaction such as for example the amount of the transaction the account used for the transaction the balance of the account used for the transaction the merchant name and or any other useful information. At block the method may end.

In various embodiments the Bluetooth low energy technology may support very short data packets e.g. 8 octet minimum up to 27 octets maximum that are transferred at for example 1 Mbps. The Bluetooth low energy connections may use advanced sniff sub rating to achieve ultra low duty cycles. Bluetooth low energy technology also may use the adaptive frequency hopping common to all versions of Bluetooth technology to minimize interference from other technologies in the 2.4 GHz ISM Band. The Bluetooth low energy technology may enable efficient multi path benefits that increase the link budgets and range. Bluetooth low energy technology also may include intelligence in a controller of the secure attachment or fob which may allow the host to sleep for longer periods of time and be woken up by the controller only when the host needs to perform some action. This allows for the greatest current savings since the host is assumed to consume more power than the controller. Bluetooth low energy technology also can support connection setup and data transfer as low as 3 ms allowing an application to form a connection and then transfer authenticated data in few milliseconds for a short communication burst before quickly tearing down the connection. Moreover Increased modulation index provides a possible range for Bluetooth low energy technology of over 100 meters. Bluetooth low energy technology may use a 24 bit CRC on packets to ensure the maximum robustness against interference. Bluetooth low energy technology may include full AES 128 encryption using CCM to provide encryption and authentication of data packets. Bluetooth low energy technology also may use a 32 bit access address on every packet for each slave allowing for billions secure attachments or fobs. The Bluetooth low energy technology may be optimized for one to one connections while allowing one to many connections using for example a star topology. With the use of quick connections and disconnections data can move in a mesh like topology without the complexities of maintaining a mesh network.

System may use the secure low energy connection to enable the enhanced features of a secure attachment such as for example the key and or mobile device feature. The secure low energy connection also may be used to transmit for example a RSA key to the mobile device to enable a payment transaction or for example login into a mobile banking or other application. The secure low energy connection also may be used to communication with indoor positioning systems such as for example Apple iBeacons and the like. For example a financial institution that issues a secure attachment or fob may install indoor positioning systems within branch banks or other retail establishments and communicate with the secure attachment or fob to understand which of its customers have entered into the bank branch or retail establishment.

As shown in attachment may include secure element NFC communication element attachment input output module button interface which may be connected to a button controller indicator interface which may be connected to an indicator a power source and an audio interface which may be connected to a speaker .

Secure element may be similar to the secure elements as shown and described above such as secure element . NFC communication element may be similar to the NFC communication element as shown and described above such as NFC Radio . Attachment input output module may be similar to the Attachment input output module as shown and described above such as attachment I O . Attachment I O also may be capable of wirelessly transmitting low energy secure communications to a mobile device using Bluetooth technology. In various embodiments the attachment input output module may not be coupled to an audio plug and instead only communicate wirelessly with a mobile device. In various embodiments however as described above a NFC attachment such as secure attachment may include an audio plug as well as a low energy wireless transmitter included within attachment input output module . Attachment input output module may cooperate with other components of attachment such as for example controller to enable for example Bluetooth communication with a mobile device or other low energy transmitter.

Button interface may include hardware software and or firmware to enable a button on attachment . For example a button may include an actuator not shown which transmits a signal to button interface to indicate that button has been depressed. Button interface may receive the signal and cooperate with controller and or other components of attachment to perform an instruction associated with button . For example button interface may cooperate with controller and the other components of attachment to transmit a mobile device locator request to a mobile device which in turn will activate an alarm or other like response from a mobile device to indicate the location of the mobile device. Button interface also may cooperate with controller and the other components of attachment to transmit a RSA token to a mobile device which in turn may use the RSA token to authorize a transaction log in to a mobile application and the like.

Power source may be any power source capable of supplying power to attachment . For example power source may be a battery such as a coin cell battery a photovoltaic cell and the like. Power source may be a replaceable power source and or a rechargeable power source. As shown in power source may be coupled to the other components of attachments to supply power to the components of attachment .

Indicator interface may be coupled to an indicator to provide status indications to a user of attachment . For example indicator interface may operate one or more light emitting diodes LEDs to provide illuminated status indications. In various embodiments a solid or flashing blue LED indicator may indicate that attachment is coupled to another device via a Bluetooth connection. Similarly a solid or flashing green LED indicator may indicate that attachment is communicating with a mobile device and a solid or flashing red LED indicator may indicate that attachment is having one or more problems such as a communication failure power failure pairing failure and the like. Indicator interface may receive status signals from controller and or other components of the attachment e.g. attachment input output module and use those status signals to activate one or more indicators .

Controller may control the operations of attachment . For example controller may cooperate with the other components of attachment to communicate with a mobile device provide key mobile device finder features RSA features and the like. Controller may be similar to various controllers described above and also may include specific capabilities to enable Bluetooth technology such as Bluetooth low energy technology.

Audio interface may be coupled to a speaker to enable audio features associated with the attachment. For example Audio interface may be coupled to a speaker to activate an alarm as part of a key finder feature. When for example the attachment receives a finder request signal from another device such as a mobile device via a low energy connection the audio interface may receive an alarm signal from for example controller and activate speaker to notify a user of where the attachment is located. In various embodiments speaker also may operate as a Bluetooth enabled speaker to provide for example convention audio information e.g. music or like audio signals . In various embodiments the enhanced features of attachment may operate while speaker is operating.

For example a user of a native mobile banking application may attempt to conduct a high risk transaction such as a wire transfer. To ensure the security of the transaction the user may be required to have the attachment in close proximity to the mobile device executing the mobile banking application so that the attachment may transmit via for example a Bluetooth connection the correct RSA tokencode to authorize the transaction. Other embodiments that require the use of the tokencode are contemplated. Moreover the attachment may be used to provide tokens in various token based payments described herein.

Display interface may enable information to be displayed on display . Display may be a low power display or other like display. Display also may be as touch screen display and the like.

Secure attachment may be similar to the NFC attachments shown and described herein. For example secure attachment may be similar to secure attachments and or . Secure attachment may be coupled to a client device via an audio plug and or a wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth or other low energy wireless connection .

Client device may be a network enabled computer As referred to herein a network enabled computer may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. The one or more network enabled computers of the example system may execute one or more software applications to enable for example network communications.

Client device also may be a mobile device For example a mobile device may include an iPhone iPod iPad from Apple or any other mobile device running Apple s iOS operating system any device running Google s Android operating system including for example Google s wearable device Google Glass any device running Microsoft s Windows Mobile operating system and or any other smartphone or like wearable mobile device.

Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of a wireless network and a wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Networks PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of example types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively couples. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

Front end controlled domain may be implemented to provide security for backend . Load balancer s may distribute workloads across multiple computing resources such as for example computers a computer cluster network links central processing units or disk drives. In various embodiments load balancer s may distribute workloads across for example web server S and or backend systems. Load balancing aims to optimize resource use maximize throughput minimize response time and avoid overload of any one of the resources. Using multiple components with load balancing instead of a single component may increase reliability through redundancy. Load balancing is usually provided by dedicated software or hardware such as a multilayer switch or a Domain Name System DNS server process.

Load balancer s may include software that monitoring the port where external clients such as for example client device connect to access various services of a financial institution for example. Load balancer s may forward requests to one of the application servers and or backend servers which may then reply to load balancer . This may allow load balancer s to reply to client device without client device ever knowing about the internal separation of functions. It also may prevent client devices from contacting backend servers directly which may have security benefits by hiding the structure of the internal network and preventing attacks on backend or unrelated services running on other ports for example.

A variety of scheduling algorithms may be used by load balancer s to determine which backend server to send a request to. Simple algorithms may include for example random choice or round robin. Load balancers also may account for additional factors such as a server s reported load recent response times up down status determined by a monitoring poll of some kind number of active connections geographic location capabilities or how much traffic it has recently been assigned.

Load balancers may be implemented in hardware and or software. Load balancer s may implement numerous features including without limitation asymmetric loading Priority activation SSL Offload and Acceleration Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attack protection HTTP compression TCP offloading TCP buffering direct server return health checking HTTP caching content filtering HTTP security priority queuing rate shaping content aware switching client authentication programmatic traffic manipulation firewall intrusion prevention systems.

Web server s may include hardware e.g. one or more computers and or software e.g. one or more applications that deliver web content that can be accessed by for example a client device e.g. client device through a network e.g. network such as the Internet. In various examples web servers may deliver web pages relating to for example online banking applications and the like to clients e.g. client device . Web server s may use for example a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or sHTTP to communicate with client device . The web pages delivered to client device may include for example HTML documents which may include images style sheets and scripts in addition to text content.

A user agent such as for example a web browser web crawler or native mobile application may initiate communication by making a request for a specific resource using HTTP and web server may respond with the content of that resource or an error message if unable to do so. The resource may be for example a file on stored on backend . Web server s also may enable or facilitate receiving content from client device so client device AO2 may be able to for example submit web forms including uploading of files.

Web server s also may support server side scripting using for example Active Server Pages ASP PHP or other scripting languages. Accordingly the behavior of web server s can be scripted in separate files while the actual server software remains unchanged.

Application server s may include hardware and or software that is dedicated to the efficient execution of procedures e.g. programs routines scripts for supporting its applied applications. Application server s may comprise one or more application server frameworks including for example Java application servers e.g. Java platform Enterprise Edition Java EE the .NET framework from Microsoft PHP application servers and the like . The various application server frameworks may contain a comprehensive service layer model. Also application server s may act as a set of components accessible to for example a financial institution or other entity implementing system through an API defined by the platform itself. For Web applications these components may be performed in for example the same running environment as web server s and application servers may support the construction of dynamic pages. Application server s also may implement services such as for example clustering fail over and load balancing. In various embodiments where application server s are Java application servers the web server s may behaves like an extended virtual machine for running applications transparently handling connections to databases associated with backend on one side and connections to the Web client e.g. client device on the other.

Backend may include hardware and or software that enables the backend services of for example a financial institution or other entity that maintains a distributes system similar to system . For example backend may include a system of record online banking applications a rewards platform a payments platform a lending platform including the various services associated with for example auto and home lending platforms a statement processing platform one or more platforms that provide mobile services one or more platforms that provide online services a card provisioning platform a general ledger system and the like. Backend may be associated with various databases including account databases that maintain for example customer account information product databases that maintain information about products and services available to customers content databases that store content associated with for example a financial institution and the like. Backend also may be associated with one or more servers that enable the various services provided by system .

Referring to an example PoS device is shown. PoS device may include a controller a reader interface a data interface a smartcard reader a magnetic stripe reader a near field communications NFC reader a power manager a keypad an audio interface a touchscreen display controller and a display . Also PoS device may be coupled with integrated into or otherwise connected with a cash register retail enterprise system .

In various embodiments Controller may be any controller or processor capable of controlling the operations of PoS device . For example controller may be a Intel 2nd Generation Core i3 or i5 or Pentium G850 processor or the like. Controller also may be a controller included in a personal computer smartphone device tablet PC or the like.

Reader interface may provide an interface between the various reader devices associated with PoS device and PoS device . For example reader interface may provide an interface between smartcard reader magnetic stripe reader NFC reader and controller . In various embodiments reader interface may be a wired interface such as a USB RS232 or RS485 interface and the like. Reader interface also may be a wireless interface and implement technologies such as Bluetooth the 802.11 x wireless specifications and the like. Reader interface may enable communication of information read by the various reader devices from the various reader devices to PoS device to enable transactions. For example reader interface may enable communication of a credit or debit card number read by a reader device from that device to PoS device . In various embodiments reader interface may interface between PoS device and other devices that do not necessarily read information but instead receive information from other devices.

Data interface may allow PoS device to pass communicate data throughout PoS device and with other devices including for example cash register retail enterprise system . Data interface may enable PoS device to integrate with various customer resource management CRM and or enterprise resource management ERP systems. Data interface may include hardware firmware and software that make aspects of data interface a wired interface. Data interface also may include hardware firmware and software that make aspects of data interface a wireless interface. In various embodiments data interface also enables communication between PoS device other devices.

Smartcard reader may be any electronic data input device that reads data from a smart card. Smartcard reader may be capable of supplying an integrated circuit on the smart card with electricity and communicating with the smart card via protocols thereby enabling read and write functions. In various embodiments smartcard reader may enable reading from contact or contactless smart cards. Smartcard reader also may communicate using standard protocols including ISO IEC 7816 ISO IEC 14443 and or the like or proprietary protocols.

Magnetic stripe reader may be any electronic data input device that reads data from a magnetic stripe on a credit or debit card for example. In various embodiments magnetic stripe reader may include a magnetic reading head capable of reading information from a magnetic stripe. Magnetic stripe reader may be capable of reading for example cardholder information from tracks 1 2 and 3 on magnetic cards. In various embodiments track 1 may be written on a card with code known as DEC SIXBIT plus odd parity and the information on track 1 may be contained in several formats e.g. format A which may be reserved for proprietary use of the card issuer format B format C M which may be reserved for us by ANSI subcommittee X3B10 and format N Z which may be available for use by individual card issuers . In various embodiments track 2 may be written with a 5 bit scheme 4 data bits plus 1 parity . Track 3 may be unused on the magnetic stripe. In various embodiments track 3 transmission channels may be used for transmitting dynamic data packet information to further enable enhanced token based payments.

NFC reader may be any electronic data input device that reads data from a NFC device. In an exemplary embodiment NFC reader may enable Industry Standard NFC Payment Transmission. For example the NFC reader may communicate with a NFC enabled device to enable two loop antennas to form an air core transformer when placed near one another by using magnetic induction. NFC reader may operate at 13.56 MHz or any other acceptable frequency. Also NFC reader may enable a passive communication mode where an initiator device provides a carrier field permitting answers by the target device via modulation of existing fields. Additionally NFC reader also may enable an active communication mode by allowing alternate field generation by the initiator and target devices.

In various embodiments NFC reader may deactivate an RF field while awaiting data. NFC reader may receive communications containing Miller type coding with varying modulations including 100 modulation. NFC reader also may receive communications containing Manchester coding with varying modulations including a modulation ratio of approximately 10 for example. Additionally NFC reader may be capable of receiving and transmitting data at the same time as well as checking for potential collisions when the transmitted signal and received signal frequencies differ.

NFC reader may be capable of utilizing standardized transmission protocols for example but not by way of limitation ISO IEC 14443 A B ISO IEC 18092 MiFare FeliCa tag smartcard emulation and the like. Also NFC reader may be able to utilize transmission protocols and methods that are developed in the future using other frequencies or modes of transmission. NFC reader also may be backwards compatible with existing payment techniques such as for example RFID. Also NFC reader may support transmission requirements to meet new and evolving payment standards including internet based transmission triggered by NFC. In various embodiments NFC reader may utilize MasterCard s PayPass and or Visa s PayWave and or American Express ExpressPay systems to enable transactions.

Although not shown and described other input devices and or readers such as for example barcode readers and the like are contemplated.

Power manager may be any microcontroller or integrated circuit that governs power functions of PoS device . Power manager may include for example firmware software memory a CPU a CPU input output functions timers to measure intervals of time as well as analog to digital converters to measure the voltages of the main battery or power source of PoS device . In various embodiments Power manager remain active even when PoS device is completely shut down unused and or powered by the backup battery. Power manager may be responsible for coordinating many functions including for example monitoring power connections and battery charges charging batteries when necessary controlling power to other integrated circuits within PoS device and or other peripherals and or readers shutting down unnecessary system components when they are left idle controlling sleep and power functions on and off managing the interface for built in keypad and trackpads and or regulating a real time clock RTC .

Keypad may any input device that includes a set of buttons arranged for example in a block or pad and may bear digits symbols and or alphabetical letters. Keypad may be a hardware based or mechanical type keypad and or implemented in software and displayed on for example a screen or touch screen to form a keypad. Keypad may receive input from a user that pushed or otherwise activates one or more buttons on keypad to provide input.

Audio interface may be any device capable of providing audio signals from PoS device . For example audio interface may be a speaker or speakers that may produce audio signals. In various embodiments audio interface may be integrated within PoS device . Audio interface also may include components that are external to PoS device .

Touchscreen display control may be any device or controller that controls an electronic visual display. Touchscreen display control may allow a user to interact with PoS device through simple or multi touch gestures by touching a screen or display e.g. display . Touchscreen display control may be configured to control any number of touchscreens including for example resistive touchscreens surface acoustic wave touchscreens capacitive touchscreens surface capacitance touchscreens projected capacitance touchscreens mutual capacitance touchscreens self capacitance touchscreens infrared grid touchscreens infrared acrylic projection touchscreens optical touchscreens touchscreens based on dispersive signal technology acoustic pulse recognition touchscreens and the like. In various embodiments touchscreen display control may receive inputs from the touchscreen and process the received inputs. Touchscreen display control also may control the display on PoS device thereby providing the graphical user interface on a display to a user of PoS device .

Display may be any display suitable for a PoS device. For example display may be a TFT LCD LED or other display. Display also may be a touchscreen display that for example allows a user to interact with PoS device through simple or multi touch gestures by touching a screen or display e.g. display . Display may include any number of touchscreens including for example resistive touchscreens surface acoustic wave touchscreens capacitive touchscreens surface capacitance touchscreens projected capacitance touchscreens mutual capacitance touchscreens self capacitance touchscreens infrared grid touchscreens infrared acrylic projection touchscreens optical touchscreens touchscreens based on dispersive signal technology acoustic pulse recognition touchscreens and the like. In various embodiments may receive inputs from control gestures provided by a user. Display also may display images thereby providing the graphical user interface to a user of PoS device .

Cash register retail enterprise system may be any device or devices that cooperate with PoS device to process transactions. Cash register retail enterprise system may be coupled with other components of PoS device via for example a data interface e.g. data interface as illustrated in . Cash register retail enterprise system also may be integrated into PoS device .

In various embodiments cash register retail enterprise system may be a cash register. Example cash registers may include for example mechanical or electronic devices that calculate and record sales transactions. Cash registers also may include a cash drawer for storing cash and may be capable of printing receipts. Cash registers also may be connected to a network to enable payment transactions. Cash registers may include a numerical pad QWERTY or custom keyboard touch screen interface or a combination of these input methods for a cashier to enter products and fees by hand and access information necessary to complete the sale.

In various embodiments cash register retail enterprise system may comprise an retail enterprise system and or a customer relationship management system. Retail enterprise system may enable retain enterprises to manage operations and performance across a retail operation. Retail enterprise system may be a stand alone application in for example individual stores or may be interconnected via a network. Retail enterprise system may include various point of sale capabilities including the ability to for example customize and resize transaction screens work with a touch screen graphical user interface enter line items automatically look up price sales quantity discount promotional price levels automatically compute tax VAT look up quantity and item attribute display item picture extended description and sub descriptions establish default shipping services select shipping carrier and calculate shipping charges by weight value support multi tender transactions including cash check credit card and debit card accept food stamps place transactions on hold and recall perform voids and returns at POS access online credit card authorizations and capture electronic signatures integrate debit and credit card processing ensure optional credit card discounts with address verification support mix and match pricing structure discount entire sale or selected items at time of sale add customer account track customer information including total sales number of visits and last visit date. issue store credit receive payment s for individual invoices process deposits on orders search by customer s ship to address create and process layaway back orders work orders and sales quotes credit items sold to selected sales reps view daily sales graph at the PoS view and print journals from any register preview search and print journals by register batch and or receipt number print X Z and ZZ reports print receipts invoices and pick tickets with logos graphics print kit components on receipt reprint receipts enter employee hours with an integrated time clock function and or sell when the network server is down with an offline PoS mode. Retail enterprise system also may include inventory control and tracking capabilities reporting tools customer management capabilities employee management tools and may integrate with other accounting software.

In various embodiments cash register retail enterprise system may be a hospitality PoS. In such embodiments retail enterprise system may include hospitality PoS software e.g Aloha PoS Restaurant software from NCR Micros RES and Symphony software and the like hospitality management software and other hardware and software to facilitate hospitality operations.

In block a secure wireless connection may be established. For example a NFC attachment may establish a Bluetooth low energy connection with a mobile device. In various embodiments to establish this secure connection the NFC attachment may be within a certain proximity range of the mobile device to enable the NFC attachment to be paired to the mobile device. A user of the mobile device may be required to input a PIN into for example a mobile application operating on the device to establish a secure connection. Also a user of the NFC attachment may be required to input a tokencode provided by the attachment as explained above to establish the secure connection. Once the secure connection is made the payment and enhanced features described herein may be enabled. In various embodiments if the secure connection is not established the attachment may not operate. Accordingly the secure connection provides security because a stolen or misplaced attachment may not operate absent the proximity connection to the mobile device.

In block payments may be made using the NFC attachment. For example a user may place the secure attachment near a NFC reader on for example a PoS device to make a payment. Because the secure attachment is wirelessly connected to a mobile device the user need not also present the mobile device to the PoS or physically couple the attachment to the mobile device to conduct the transaction.

In block finder features may be utilized using the attachment. For example a user of the mobile device may activate a find my keys application and or the like on the mobile device to transmit a signal via for example the Bluetooth connection to activate an alarm on the attachment so as to notify the user of the attachment as to the location of the keys presuming the attachments is coupled to a key ring . Where the attachment is not coupled to keys the find my keys feature may be used to locate the attachment. In various embodiments the finder features may first establish a wireless connection assuming the mobile device and attachment are within the requisite proximity of each other before activating the finder features. The user of the attachment also may use for example a button on the attachment to find a mobile device that is paired to the attachment. In such an embodiment the button may transmit a signal to the mobile device to activate an alarm or the like on the mobile device.

In block the attachment may utilize RSA features. For example as described above RSA tokencodes may be transmitted from the attachment to the mobile device to authorize a transaction and or authenticate the user.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

