---

title: Presenting animated visual supplemental content
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for determining and/or presenting supplemental content associated with media content. In some embodiments, supplemental content may include information regarding characters, places, events, and/or user generated data associated with media content. Supplemental content may be determined through the use of one or more indexes and/or data structures that relate media content with supplemental content items. User interfaces may be generated to present the supplemental content items in a particular order, layout, and/or streaming animation to provide context for the user. In some embodiments, the user interfaces including the supplemental content may be configured to receive user input for navigation of the media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471203&OS=09471203&RS=09471203
owner: AUDIBLE, INC.
number: 09471203
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140902
---
Generally described computing devices may present various types of digital content to users for consumption. For example computing devices may visually present items of content such as electronic books movies television programs and other multimedia content. Similarly computing devices may aurally present content such as audiobooks music movies and other multimedia content. Some computing devices display an image or album cover associated with the audiobook or audio during playback.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure are directed to determining supplemental content associated with media content during playback of the media content and or presenting the determined supplemental content. For example a user may use a personal computing device such as a smartphone to listen to an audiobook. Supplemental content may be determined regarding characters locations quotes and or user generated content that is related to the audiobook generally and or related to particular positions within the audiobook. During playback of the audiobook supplemental content that is synchronized with the playback of audiobook may be presented to the user. For example visual graphics and or icons associated with the supplemental content may be presented to the user such as an image and or icon of a fictional character when that fictional character is mentioned within the spoken words of the audiobook. One or more items of supplemental content may be presented to the user in a particular order and or layout e.g. presenting supplemental content associated with a character plot event and fictional location in that respective order corresponding to the order they are mentioned in the audiobook that may enhance the user s comprehension of the audiobook. Furthermore the user interface that visually displays supplemental content may also allow a user to navigate the audiobook by interacting with controls associated with the supplemental content. Thus the user may be able to visualize and or navigate the audiobook in a unique manner.

There may be advantages to determining supplemental content to be presented to a user and or presenting the supplemental content concurrently with the playback of media content. Some media content may be difficult for a user to understand in one media format such as a user exclusively listening to audio of an audiobook. For example a book and or a series of books may consist of numerous plot lines and or characters and or are told from the perspective of numerous characters such that the one or more books may be confusing for a user to comprehend. Thus supplemental content may be presented to the user that refreshes the memory about certain characters and or aspects of the book that enrich user consumption of the book. Other advantages include the presentation of supplemental content as images and or video content e.g. displaying images from a children s book along with the corresponding audiobook which is described in further detail below.

The term supplemental content as used herein refers to any data and or secondary content that is associated with the media and or primary content being presented to the user. For example where the primary content includes an audiobook supplemental content may include data images and or words related to characters locations events author commentary and or background information associated with the primary content. Supplemental and or secondary content may also include highlights and or quotes of the primary media content. Supplemental content may also include icons videos links to other data e.g. a hyperlink user generated data and or other multimedia content associated with the primary content. For example user generated may include comments from a user on a social network and or notations from other users of a small group.

According to other aspects of the present disclosure a content service is described that may determine visual and or supplemental content for presentation during playback of media content. For example the content service may identify and or determine supplemental content related to text words and or phrases of an audiobook. In some embodiments the determined supplemental content may be based at least in part on user preferences group associations social network groups and or user history associated with the media content.

In some embodiments the words for given portions of media content such as audio content of an audiobook may be determined based at least in part on a corresponding or related item of textual content such as textual content of an electronic book ebook version of the same underlying book . An item of textual content and a corresponding item of audio content are sometimes referred to herein as associated or companion content. An item of audio content and a corresponding item of associated textual content may be synchronized with one another for simultaneous presentation. For example a computing device implementing the content service may be provided with content synchronization information that maps one or more words in the item of associated textual content with a position of an identical word or words in the item of audio content e.g. the identical word or words that are spoken sung recited etc. in the item of audio content . In some embodiments the synchronization information may indicate time positions and or data locations within associated audio content that correspond to word paragraph chapter section or other positions within the textual content. For example chapters of an ebook may be associated with start and or end times of a chapter in the audiobook. More information regarding synchronizing an item of audio content with an item of associated textual content as well as content synchronization information that may be stored in association with the synchronization may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 273 473 the 473 application filed Nov. 18 2008 entitled SYNCHRONIZATION OF DIGITAL CONTENT which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An example of associated content as used herein may include various representations of content discussed in the 473 application. Furthermore the associated textual content may be further synchronized and or associated with supplemental content which is described in further detail below.

In some embodiments a content module when executed by one or more hardware processors as disclosed herein may cause a computing device to determine supplemental content and or display the determined supplemental content. During playback of the media content by the computing device the content module may determine and or retrieve supplemental content based on text data associated with the media content and or a current playback position of the media content. In some embodiments the presentation of supplemental content may be automatically generated and or initiated by user input during playback of the media content.

A content service as disclosed herein may be implemented in any of a number of environments in which media content is presented. In some embodiments the content service may be implemented as an application executed on a user computing device configured to present visual and or audio content. A user interface to present supplemental content and or navigate the media content may be provided by the user computing device as the application is executed. In other embodiments the content service may be implemented via a content page hosted by a content server on a network. The content page may be accessed by a user computing device via a network resource browser. A user interface for requesting supplemental content data associated with the media content may be provided on the content page and the media content may be streamed and or downloaded from the content server to the user computing device for presentation thereon. Other implementations are possible in different embodiments.

While reference is frequently made herein to audiobooks books ebooks etc. it will be appreciated that media content may include any type of content that is presented continuously over time and that may be associated with supplemental content. Examples of continuously presented media content may include audiobooks podcasts news programs musical works television programs video clips movies multimedia content video games and any other type of content having related supplemental content that enhances user consumption of the media content. For example as disclosed herein a primary display of a computing device or computing system may include video content and or a secondary display of the computing device or computing system may include the streaming supplemental content which is synchronized with the primary video content. Media content can also include any type of textual content such as an ebook electronic table of contents closed caption content screenplay script libretto transcription e.g. speech to text or other textual content. As will be appreciated in some embodiments textual content representing words spoken in various types of audio content may be determined dynamically using speech recognition and or other known methods. As will be appreciated sections of media content may refer to the chapters of a book episodes of a show sections of a show defined by advertising and or commercial breaks books in a collection and or any other type of ordered arrangement of content that may be broken into discrete sections. Section markers may be automatically extracted from the media content itself and may be presented to the user along with and or as supplemental content to provide additional context to the user. For example where an audiobook includes audio content such as start of chapter ten section markers may be determined dynamically by analyzing the audio content for certain keywords indicators phrases pauses etc. which may then be visually presented to the user.

Turning to an illustrative network environment is shown in which a content service may determine visual and or supplemental content for presentation during playback of media content. The network environment may include a user computing device a network a content server a supplemental content data store and a media content data store . The constituents of the network environment may be in communication with each other either locally or over the network .

The user computing device may be any computing device capable of communicating over the network and presenting media content to a user such as a laptop or tablet computer personal computer personal digital assistant PDA hybrid PDA mobile phone mobile phone smartphone wearable computing device global positioning system GPS device electronic book reader set top or other television box camera audiobook player digital media player video game console in store kiosk television appliance electronic device for inclusion in vehicles or machinery gaming device or the like. In some embodiments user interfaces shown in D and or A B may be presented on user computing devices .

The user computing device may generally be capable of presenting audio and visual content to a user of the user computing device . For example the user computing device may be capable of playing audio content by directing audible or aural output through speakers headphones or the like. In some embodiments the user computing device may also be capable of presenting images video content text user interfaces and or user interface controls on a display screen. The user computing device may further be capable of receiving user input through a user input device such as a keyboard mouse touchpad microphone trackball touchscreen image recognition through an input camera e.g. eye hand head body tracking and or placement gamepad accelerometer gyroscope or other input device known in the art.

The user computing device may further be capable of accessing network resources such as content pages via the network . In some embodiments continuously presented media content may be presented through these content pages by the user computing device e.g. by media content and or supplemental content being streamed over the network to the user computing device . In other embodiments media content and or supplemental content presented by the user computing device may be retrieved from a data store that is local to the user computing device .

In some embodiments the user computing device stores one or more items of audio content textual content associated content supplemental content and or other media content in an electronic data store. For example the user computing device may include one or more hard disk drives solid state memories and or any other type of non transitory computer readable storage medium accessible to or integrated within the user computing device . These items may be retrieved from storage and conveyed by the user computing device to the user.

The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be an over the air broadcast network e.g. for radio or television or a publicly accessible network of linked networks possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In some embodiments the network may be a private or semi private network such as a corporate or university intranet. The network may include one or more wireless networks such as a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or any other type of wireless network. The network can use protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of networks. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

In some embodiments the content server includes a computing device that may perform a variety of operations to implement a content service. For example the content server may retrieve media content from the media content data store which is described in further detail below. The content server may determine visual and or supplemental content including the layout and or order of such content for presentation during playback of media content. In some embodiments the content server may access the supplemental content data store which is described in further detail below to retrieve data to supplement and or add context to the media content. Also as described in further detail below the content server may retrieve supplemental content data from data sources via the network such as social network data related to media content. In some embodiments a supplemental content service not illustrated may be implemented to access the supplemental content data store and or other data stores to provide supplemental content data. As described in further detail below a supplemental content service may provide an Application Programming Interface API for retrieving supplemental content data at various levels of abstraction. Additional operations of the content server are described below with respect to .

The supplemental content data store may electronically store in some embodiments supplemental and or contextual data associated with media content as further discussed below. The supplemental content data store may be embodied in hard disk drives solid state memories any other type of non transitory computer readable storage medium and or a file a database a relational database stored in any such non transitory computer readable media accessible to the content server . The supplemental content data store may also be distributed or partitioned across multiple local and or storage devices without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the supplemental content data store is a data storage web service.

The content server may also be in communication with a media content data store . The media content data store may electronically store items of media content such as audiobooks podcasts news programs musical works ebooks television programs video clips movies multimedia content video games and or other types of content. In some embodiments the media content data store may be embodied in various types of non transitory computer readable storage similar to the supplemental content data store . In some embodiments the supplemental content data store and or the media content data store may store associated or companion content to the multimedia content being presented such as an ebook and or text file corresponding to an audiobook.

The user computing device and content server may each be embodied in a plurality of devices. The user computing device and or content server may include a network interface memory processing unit and non transitory computer readable medium drive all of which may communicate with each other by way of a communication bus. Moreover a processing unit may itself be referred to as a computing device. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network and or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the user computing device and content server . The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent and or auxiliary non transitory computer readable storage media.

It will be recognized that many of the devices described above are optional and that embodiments of the environment may or may not combine devices. Furthermore devices need not be distinct or discrete. Devices may also be reorganized in the environment . For example the content server may be represented in a single physical server or alternatively may be split into multiple physical servers. In some embodiments the entire content service may be represented in a single computing device such as user computing device . Additionally the environment may not include a network .

In some embodiments user computing device may operate in an off line mode and or be disconnected from the network for periods of time. For example user computing device may initially synchronize and or download content from the content server yet network . User computing device may then be optionally disconnected from network and a user may consume the media and or supplemental content in an off line mode. As described in further detail below a user may optionally generate supplemental content to be shared with other users. Accordingly such user generated supplemental content may be generated by the user while user computing device is in an off line mode. The user generated supplemental content may be shared with content server when user computing device is reconnected to network . Furthermore user computing device may receive updated content and or supplemental content from content server when user computing device is reconnected to the network . Therefore user computing device and or the content server may operate in an asynchronous manner for sharing and or distributing content.

Additionally in some embodiments the content service is implemented by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and or released computing resources. The computing resources may include hardware computing networking and or storage devices configured with specifically configured computer executable instructions. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

The content server may include a processing unit a network interface a non transitory computer readable medium drive and an input output device interface all of which may communicate with one another by way of a communication bus. As illustrated the content server is associated with or in communication with an optional display and an optional input device . The display and input device may be used in embodiments in which users interact directly with the content server such as an integrated in store kiosk or integrated component for inclusion in an automobile boat train or airplane for example. In other embodiments the display and input device may be included in the user computing device shown in . The network interface may provide content server with connectivity to one or more networks or computing systems. The processing unit may thus receive information and instructions from other computing systems such as the user computing device or services via network . The processing unit may also communicate to and from memory and further provide output information for an optional display via the input output device interface . The input output device interface may accept input from the optional input device such as a keyboard mouse digital pen touch screen accelerometer gyroscope or gestures recorded via motion capture and or image recognition e.g. eye hand head and or body part placement and or recognition . The input output device interface may also output audio data to speakers or headphones not shown .

The memory may contain specifically configured computer program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to implement one or more embodiments of the content service. The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent or non transitory computer readable storage media. The memory may store an operating system that provides computer program instructions for use by the processing unit in the general administration and operation of the content server . The memory may further include other information for implementing aspects of the content service. For example in one embodiment the memory includes a user interface module that facilitates generation of user interfaces such as by providing instructions therefor for display upon a computing device such as the user computing device . For example a user interface may be displayed via a browser implemented by the user computing device . In addition the memory may include or communicate with the supplemental content data store and or media content data store .

In addition to the user interface module the memory may include a content module that may be executed by the processing unit . In some embodiments the content module may implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the content module may determine supplemental content data to be displayed with the media content provide instructions for presentation of the supplemental content data and or content data at the user computing device interface with a supplemental content service to retrieve supplemental content data and or other aspects of the disclosure described herein. The content module may retrieve supplemental content data and or items of supplemental content from the supplemental content data store . In some embodiments the content module may communicate and or provide instructions to the user interface module to provide a determined set of user interface controls. Additionally the content module may retrieve an item of media content and or media content data from the media content data store . The user computing device may locally store or stream the item of media content media content data and or supplemental content provided by the content module .

While the content module is illustrated as implemented by the content server in other embodiments the content service may be implemented partially or entirely by the user computing device . For example the content service may be provided as specifically configured hardware and or specifically configured application software implemented by hardware on the user computing device . Accordingly the user computing device may include the content module and other components that operate similarly to the components illustrated as part of the content server including a processing unit network interface non transitory computer readable medium drive input output interface memory user interface module and so forth.

Illustrative method begins at block where the content module receives user input. For example the user input may be received as a result of user interaction with the user computing device e.g. tapping a touchscreen of the device and or other input mechanisms available to a user during playback of media content as discussed in more detail with reference to and or A B. User input may be received via user interface controls to navigate the media content to add and or generate supplemental content and or to select additional content to be presented to the user. User input may include data to start the playback of the media content and or to change the current playback position of the media content. In some embodiments receipt of user input may be optional. For example playback of media content may initiate automatically without the receipt of user input and or user interaction data.

After user input is received the content module at block determines a current playback position of the media content. In some embodiments the current playback position may be determined based on a current playback time and or other data. For example the current playback time may be one minute thirty seconds which may be stored as a variable and or in some other data format by the content module . The content module may update the current playback time based on an elapsed time and or subsequent user input to stop pause fast forward and or rewind the media content. The current playback time may be stored and or tracked to the millisecond microsecond and or some other time unit. In some embodiments the current playback position may be determined by an index word position and or by using associated content such as textual content. For example a current word position may be word 100 out of 123 880 words of a book. Similar to the embodiments where the current playback time may be updated based on user input and or other data a current playback position by word may be updated based on user input and or other data. Other data may include a command and or signal to stop pause fast forward and or rewind the media content but that is not user generated such as a command to stop the current playback position after a timeout period or when the end of the media content playback is reached.

At block the content module determines text data representing words near the current playback position within the media content. The content module may retrieve text data representing words spoken within the audio content being played. For example the text data associated with an audiobook may be retrieved from a synchronization and or mapping file stored in the media content data store . In some embodiments the mapping file may include time units that correspond to each word of the text data. The content module may use a configurable window to retrieve the words near the current playback position that was determined at block . In some embodiments the configurable window may be associated with the supplemental content that is presented to the user. For example where the configurable window of time is sixty seconds the content module may retrieve all words within thirty seconds before of the current playback position and thirty seconds after the current playback position. In an illustrative example where the current playback position is two minutes text words corresponding to one minute and thirty seconds to two minutes and thirty seconds of the audio content may be retrieved. The content module may determine all or some of the words within the configurable time window by using the current playback position time and or the mapping filing which may include words indexed by time. It will be appreciated that determining text area near a current playback position may be determined by some other mechanism than time such as determining text data by word position and or a word index. In some embodiments the configurable content window may change based on user input such as zooming in and or out of the presentation area and or other user navigation which is described in further detail below. For example the configurable content window may be before or after the current playback position and or some combination thereof.

At block the content module determines supplemental content associated with the media content. In an illustrative example supplemental content may be stored in the supplemental content data store . In some embodiments supplemental content may be identified by looking up and or retrieving content from network resources based on words and or phrases from the text data of an audiobook such as retrieving an article regarding a fictional character from a network resource. In some embodiments natural language processing computational linguistics and or n grams may be used to identify supplemental by comparing text data from media content against one or more data sources of supplemental content which is described in further detail below. Other methods and or techniques for identifying supplemental content may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 433 028 filed Mar. 28 2012 entitled IDENTIFYING TOPICS IN A DIGITAL WORK which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The content module may create and or access a data structure including the supplemental content such as a data structure that indexes the supplemental content by word and or position. More information regarding retrieving supplemental content may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 246 759 the 759 application filed Sep. 27 2011 entitled PROVIDING SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FOR A DIGITAL WORK which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. For example the characters of an audiobook and their corresponding supplemental content may be indexed by character name such as Bob John Sally and or a unique identifier for each character. Other supplemental content may include places background information events themes commentary sand or other words and or phrases associated with the media content which may be indexed. Thus supplemental content may be determined by performing lookups for each word and or phrase of the text data determined at block . Other techniques and or methods for determining supplemental content are described in further detail with reference to .

At block the content module determines visual graphics and or metadata associated with the determined supplemental content. For example each item of supplemental content may have a corresponding content type. Example content types include location character quotes and or notes. Each content type may have corresponding metadata visual graphics and or icons. The visual graphics may be presented to the user in a user interface to visualize the supplemental content during playback of the media content. Examples of visual graphics associated with supplemental content are described in further detail with reference to .

At block the content module provides instructions to present the determined visual graphics and or supplemental content. For example each item of supplemental content may be associated with a time position and or visual graphic. Thus the supplemental content may be presented in an order and or timeline that visually illustrates the supplemental content to a user. For example a section of an audiobook may discuss a protagonist an important fictional event and a fictional location in that respective order. Thus an order and or layout of the visual graphics associated with the protagonist event and location may be presented to the user based at least in part on the respective time positions of each of those supplemental content topics. In some embodiments the supplement content and or visual graphics may be animated to a user as the current playback position updates and or changes. The animation may occur as a result of the potential loop at block and or for specific instructions to display the visual graphics and or supplemental content at particular locations in the user interface e.g. X Y coordinates of the display and or user interface . The presentation of the supplemental content is discussed in more detail below with reference to .

At block the content module determines whether to continue presenting content. For example if the current playback position has reached the end of an audiobook then additional supplemental content may not be displayed and or the loop will end. However if playback was not been paused and or stopped and the current playback position is not at the end of the audiobook then the method may return to block . The content module may update the current playback position by a particular variable and or configurable time unit. For example the current playback time may be updated from two minutes to two minutes and one second millisecond etc. Thus the loop may be repeated with a current playback time of two minutes and one second millisecond etc. which may result in an animation of the supplemental content such as a change in the relative positions of the supplemental content to present a streaming and or flowing user interface.

At block the content module retrieves supplemental content from the supplemental content data store . Supplemental content may be stored in the form of textual data images videos binaries characters and or other data formats. Supplemental content may be indexed and or stored by a media content name identification number and or media content type. In one example supplemental content may be retrieved for a particular work such as Pride and Prejudice. In some embodiments all of the supplemental content for a particular work and or media content may be retrieved. In other embodiments supplemental content may be retrieved selectively based on the textual data near a current playback position. Other techniques for retrieving supplemental content by word phrase index and or other methods is described in further detail below. In some embodiments the content module may optionally determine and or retrieve supplemental content based on user preferences and or user data. For example a user may have specified that a particular supplemental content type is preferred and or subscribed to a particular group for supplemental content related to the media content. In some embodiments a user may have generated notes associated with the media content which may be loaded by the content module .

In some embodiments supplemental content may be ranked scored and or prioritized. For example users may vote on supplemental content they liked and or found useful. Thus votes may be stored and or provided with the supplemental content such that the content module may select the most popular and or highest priority supplemental content. As will be described in further detail below the user interface may provide multiple levels and or views of the supplemental content. As a result the highest ranked and or scored supplemental content may surface before lower ranked supplemental content based on the view and or level of the user interface. In some embodiments supplemental content rankings may be determined based on word phrase frequency and or natural language processing to determine main characters and or important topics.

At block the content module may optionally index the supplemental content by words and or phrases of words. Each item of supplemental content retrieved from the supplemental content data store may be associated with a word phrase name title topic summary and or other metadata. Example names of supplemental content may include Elizabeth Bennet Sir William Lucas Longbourn etc. Each item of supplemental content may be indexed using a data structure such as a hash map which may store each item of supplemental content by name identification number and or title for example. In some embodiments items of supplemental content may include data objects which conform to an object orientated programming approach. More information regarding retrieving supplemental content from data objects and or structures may be found in the 759 application.

At block the content module may optionally index the supplemental content by time and or position. Textual content associated with media content may be determined based on a current playback position and or retrieved from a mapping file as described above. In one example for each word and or phrase of textual data a lookup and or retrieval may be performed against the supplemental content data store . Determining phrases of multiple words such as Sir William Lucas from textual data may occur by one or more techniques such as natural language processing computational linguistics and or determining n grams. For example for a portion of textual content word groupings of two words three words four words n words etc. may be generated to lookup and or retrieve supplemental content. Example three word groupings may include family with whom whom the Bennets Sir William Lucas etc. Each of the word groupings may be compared against data in the supplemental content data store to determine supplemental content and or corresponding word positions of supplemental content within the textual data. Additionally the textual data may be associated with time units and or positions as described above to determine times and or positions for the items of supplemental content. Thus supplemental content may be indexed in a data structure by time and or position with respect to the media content. Non limiting example data structures for indexing supplemental content by time and or position includes arrays maps hash maps linked lists and or other data structures that may indicate an order of items and or objects. In some embodiments the supplemental content data store may store and or cache the time and or position of each item of supplemental content.

At block the content module determines supplemental content by word phrase time and or position. For example supplemental content may be retrieved from the index of words and or phrases of supplemental content based on the determined text data near a current playback position as described above. In some embodiments supplemental content near a current playback time and or position may be retrieved based on the corresponding data structure that indexes supplemental content by time and or position. As described above a supplemental content service may implement some of the methods described by illustrative method to expose an API to retrieve supplemental content by word phrase time and or position. One illustrative method of the API may be to retrieve supplemental content by time position and an optional configurable window. In other words the API may receive a time position and an optional window to return supplemental content e.g. a thirty second one hundred words or default window. Advantageously a module or service invoking the API may be agnostic to the underlying techniques and or mechanisms of the supplemental content service and the underlying techniques and or mechanisms of the supplemental content service may be changed and or updated at a later time.

In some embodiments a supplemental content service may be configured to share user generated content among multiple users. For example a supplemental content service may be integrated with one or more social networks to receive user generated content associated with media content. For example a user applying a particular tag to a message and or comment such as prideandprejudice may share the message and or comment as supplemental content through the supplemental content service. In some embodiments votes and or rankings of the most popular user generated comments may be used to select supplemental content to be shared. The supplemental content service may implement a push notification and or event mechanism to publish messages and or events to the content module regarding particular media content. For example a user consuming the media content may post a social network message associated with the media content and or comment on the media content at a particular playback time which may then be shared with other users. In some embodiments the particular social network comment may be presented at the particular playback time of the original author of the comment to other users consuming the same media content. In some embodiments users may join a group to share supplemental content with each other. For example in a small group reading and or book club users may join the same group via the content module to share comments highlights annotations and or messages regarding the same media content. Thus users of the same group may see comments from other users which may be described and or illustrated with reference to . In some embodiments user generated supplemental content may include content from small groups and or social network messages from the general population of users consuming the same media content which may be filtered and or selected by votes and or rankings. The user generated supplemental content may be tagged and or associated with particular time and or positions in the media content. Thus when the content module requests supplemental content by time and or word position recent and or the latest user generated supplemental content may be retrieved. In some embodiments the content module may refresh and or retrieve new supplemental content by time and or position based on automatic periodic refreshes and or user initiated updates.

At block the content module may optionally categorize and or retrieve categories for the supplemental content. In some embodiments supplemental content categories and or content types may be based on the source of the supplement content and or other metadata. For example user generated comments from a social network may be automatically categorized as a note and or comment type of supplemental content. The data sources for information regarding characters places and or other information associated with media content may include categories that the content module may convert into supplemental content types. In some embodiments natural language processing and or computational linguistic techniques may be applied to determine content types for supplemental content such as categorizing supplemental content as regarding a person place event etc. In some embodiments a human may manually categorize supplemental content and the categorized supplemental content may be stored in the supplemental content data store . Other supplemental content types and or categories are described in further detail with reference to and A B.

Example user interface includes timeline navigator that may present visual elements and or graphics corresponding to supplemental content. Timeline navigator may include elements that allow a user to visualize supplemental content associated with media content among other functions that are described in further detail below. For example timeline navigator includes a playhead chapter and or section marker A and or timeline markers A G. Playhead may illustrate the positions of supplemental content relative to the current playback position. For example the current playback position corresponding to user interface of may be before content playback has started and or at time zero. Thus playhead is illustrated before the section marker A which may correspond to Chapter One of the media content. Timeline markers A G may be presented in a layout timeline and or order corresponding to the relative positions of the respective supplemental content associated with the media content. Timeline marker A may correspond to supplemental content regarding a character referenced in the media content at a particular position in the media content. Timeline marker G may correspond to supplemental content regarding a popular quote in the media content at a particular position in the media content. Thus timeline marker A may indicate that the supplemental character content associated with timeline marker A occurs before the supplemental quote content associated with timeline marker G. As illustrated in the timeline navigator may provide a historical view a timeline and or an overview of the relative positions of supplemental content in the media content with respect to the current content playback position.

In some embodiments the play pause control starts stops pauses activates and or controls the playback of the media content. As will be described in further detail below elements of the timeline navigator and or user interface may update change and or animate as the current playback positions updates.

As illustrated in example user interface may present media content and or supplemental content at a particular playback position of the media content. For example the audio A presented in the illustrated example includes narrated audio content at a particular playback position which are the spoken words or phrases Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate. Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton. As illustrated section marker B which may correspond to Chapter Five of the media content is above and or before playhead within the timeline navigator . Thus the current playback position of the media content may be after the start of chapter five within the media content. User interface associated with may illustrate a current playback position near chapter five of the media content which is in contrast to user interface of that may illustrate a current playback position near chapter one of the media content. Elements of user interface may update and or animate as the current playback position changes which will be described in further detail below.

Example user interface includes presentation area . In some embodiments the content presented within the presentation area may be synchronized and or correlated with the current playback position of the media content and or the timeline navigator . For example section marker of presentation area may correspond to Chapter Five of the media content which may illustrate that the start of chapter five of the media content has already occurred during playback. Presentation of supplemental content A C within the presentation area may illustrate supplemental content that has already been referenced during playback of the media content. For example audio A includes the spoken words w ithin a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets which references Longbourn a fictional location and or the Bennets a fictional family. Thus the illustrated supplemental content A and B may correspond to the fictional location and or place Longbourn and or supplemental content C may correspond to the fictional characters the Bennets which were referenced in the media content. Furthermore the supplemental content within the presentation area may correspond to the timeline markers of timeline navigator . For example supplemental content A which may be illustrated by a diamond graphic and or icon in this embodiment may correspond to the timeline marker H which may also be illustrated by a corresponding diamond graphic and or icon. Thus user interface may allow a user visualize supplemental content during playback media content.

Elements of user interface may update animate and or stream during the playback of the media content. For example presentation area and or timeline navigator may update animate and or stream as the current playback position of the media content changes. In some embodiments elements of the presentation area including section marker and or supplemental content A C may visually move in a general vertical manner which may correspond to the playback of the media content and or audio A. For example during forward playback of media content visual markers and or supplemental content within presentation area may move from the bottom of the presentation area A to the top of the presentation area B. Visual markers and or supplemental content may be removed from the presentation area as media playback content continues beyond the content window. Furthermore audio A may be synchronized with the playback and or animation of elements of the presentation area and or timeline navigator such that as the spoken words of audio A change the corresponding supplemental content updates and or animates by position or otherwise. In some embodiments during navigation of the media content such as rewinding visual markers and or supplemental content within presentation area may move from the top of the presentation area B to the bottom of presentation area A. Similar to the streaming playback and or animation of visual content within the presentation area elements of the timeline navigator may also update animate and or stream as the current playback position of the media content changes. For example timeline and or section markers of timeline navigator may animate and or be removed from the timeline navigator as the current playback position of the media content changes. In some embodiments there may be a variation of the streaming and or animation of supplemental content. For example supplemental content may stream animate and or move in a general horizontal and or vertical manner top to bottom bottom to top left and right right to left move at an angle and or some combination thereof.

In some embodiments user selection of timeline navigator may presentation area to update. For example user selection via user input interaction A with timeline navigator may cause timeline navigator audio A presentation area and or user interface to update. The user input interaction A may occur via one or more input instruments such as a finger such as tap swipe tap and hold mouse such as a click or double click or combination of fingers for a multitouch gesture in some embodiments. User input interaction A with timeline navigator may allow a user to navigate the media content. In some embodiments a user may tap swipe and or tap and hold a location on the timeline navigator to navigate to a position within the media content and or update the current playback position. In some embodiments user interaction with timeline navigator may cause a synchronized correlated and or near simultaneous update to elements of user interface . For example a user input interaction to rewind the current playback position may cause the timeline navigator to rewind and or the presentation area to rewind which may include corresponding visual animations. The timeline navigator and or the presentation area may animate during user input interaction A such as by moving supplemental content and or markers in a particular direction and or adding or removing supplemental content. Furthermore during the user input interaction audio A may update by playing faster slower and or in reverse such as for rewinding. In some embodiments the user may interact with presentation area to update the current playback position which is described in further detail below.

As illustrated in example user interface may update to a different playback position of the media content based on user input. For example user interface may have been updated in response to user input interaction A. For example the current playback position of the media content may be near chapter seven which may be illustrated by the elements of the presentation area and or the timeline navigator . In some embodiments user input interaction B within presentation area may cause updates to user interface and or playback of media content which may be similar to the updates and or changes based on user input interaction A in . For example a touch and or swipe within presentation area may cause timeline navigator presentation area and or playback of the media content to change such as rewinding and or fast forwarding. In some embodiments an advantage of receiving user input via timeline navigator and presentation area may be that interactions with each respective control may cause different updates to user interface and or different playback of the media content such as each user interface control having different sensitivity levels to user interaction. For example interactions with timeline navigator may cause the current playback position to scrub and or change faster than interactions with presentation area .

In some embodiments supplemental content may include different content types which may be indicated to the user and or displayed graphically. Content types for supplemental content and or timeline markers may include a character type a location and or geographical type a quote type a bookmark type a note type a user comment type and or other types. For example supplemental content D may relate to the fictional character Elizabeth Bennet and supplemental content D may correspond to a character content type. Another content type may include a bookmark and or note type which may correspond to supplemental content E. In some embodiments a note bookmark comment and or social network message may be added to the media content and or a current playback position of the media content with the notation control . A social network and or user comment type may correspond to supplemental content F. In some embodiments as described above with reference to illustrative method user comment F may be received via a notification and or message from a supplemental content service. The comment and or message may have been created by a different user than the user currently consuming the media content. Additionally the social network message may have been created during the playback of the media content and or received by the content module via a notification. A quote type may correspond to supplemental content G. In some embodiments supplemental content quotes may be selected by a user and or may be identified as popular quotes provided by the content server . For example quotes may be selected and or highlighted in an ebook application and may be shared by the content server as supplemental content G. In some embodiments popular quotes for a particular quote may be received and or retrieved from a network resource. As illustrated by another content type may include a location type that corresponds to supplemental content A and or supplemental content B. Furthermore as illustrated by supplemental content B supplemental content may include images video and or other multimedia content. The inclusion of images and or other content during playback of the media content may be advantageous. For example playback of a children s audiobook may include images from the corresponding children s ebook or book which may enhance the user experience while consuming the media content. In some embodiments as described above the content types and or visual graphics associated with supplemental content within the presentation area may correspond to the timeline markers within the timeline navigator . Thus as illustrated timeline markers within timeline navigator may be organized and or presented in a particular layout based on their respective content types e.g. timeline markers may be presented in a columnar layout .

As illustrated in user interface may present additional information associated with the supplemental content. For example supplemental content window may include additional information and or data regarding supplemental content associated with the media content. In some embodiments data from the supplement content window may be retrieved from supplemental content data store and or external data sources associated with media content such as databases of media movie book fictional user generated and or encyclopedic information. For example content regarding a particular work may be generated by fans of the work and available for retrieval and or download by the content module through a network resource. Supplemental content window may also include related content such as other media content which may be an opportunity to sell and or advertise other media content. A user may select supplemental content such as supplemental content D in to cause the presentation of the supplemental content window in which may overlay elements of user interface . Playback of the media content may pause and or continue during presentation of the supplemental content window depending on the embodiment. User selection of back control and or presentation area may cause the supplemental content window to disappear and or be removed which may result in the presentation of user interface in for example.

In some embodiments user interface may include different layers of content and or a supplemental content marketplace. For example may illustrate a level and or layer of content and may illustrate an additional level and or layer of content. In another example user interface may include a level and or layer for user generated content such as a level and or layer that provides user interface controls for a user to add visual illustrations which may be shared with and or sold to other users. In some embodiments user interface may include a supplemental content marketplace that allows users to share sell distribute and or consume supplemental content. Other examples of levels and or layers include a premium content layer an author s notes or commentary layer and or layers associated with content types of supplemental content. Similar to the supplemental content which may be shared or synchronized among a group of users and or through a social network layers and or levels may be shared and or synchronized among users. In some embodiments a user may specify and or configure the levels and or layers associated with media content and or supplemental content. More information regarding providing additional layers of content and or a supplemental content marketplace may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 086 895 filed Nov. 21 2013 entitled SUPPLEMENTAL CONTENT MARKETPLACE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As illustrated in user interface may include an audio visualizer . In some embodiments audio visualizer may include visual representations of sound waves frequencies and or other representations of audio data associated with the media content. For example as the audio sound waves and or frequencies of the media content change the audio visualizer may animate accordingly. In some embodiments audio visualizer and or user interface may be visually connected to supplemental content via connectors A B. The waves and or lines of the audio visualizer may include different colors and or gradients such as the lines attached to connectors A and B that may be represented by different colors and or gradients.

In some embodiments user interface may be configured for zoom interaction . For example zoom interaction may include user input to zoom in or zoom out on the supplemental content and or the media content. In response to zoom interaction user interface may display additional different and or reveal more supplemental content according to illustrative methods and or . For example zoom interaction may cause the display of multiple chapters a single chapter or some other hierarchical view of the media content. Depending on the level of zoom the content module may select different items of supplemental content based on priority and or some other determination as described above. Additional methods and techniques for displaying hierarchical content such as zooming in and or out on content may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 274 380 filed May 19 2014 entitled DETERMINING HIERARCHICAL USER INTERFACE CONTROLS DURING CONTENT PLAYBACK which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the display of user interface in may result from the zoom interaction illustrated in described in detail above. For example zoom interaction may cause the user interface to zoom in on the media content near the current playback position. As a result the supplemental content illustrated in may differ from the supplemental content illustrated in .

In some embodiments it will be appreciated that disclosed herein are systems and methods that enable the determination and or navigation of media content through various user interactions. For example a click tap swipe slide double tap tap and hold pinching scrunching expanding zooming other user interactions or input and or some combination thereof may be used to navigate various levels of media content. In some embodiments pinching and or expanding may change one or more levels of media content based on the relative degree of the motion and or interaction. For example a relative large zoom motion may change more than one level and or a relative small zoom motion may change only one level.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed by a machine such as a processing unit or processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be a controller microcontroller or state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor can include electrical circuitry configured to process computer executable instructions. In another embodiment a processor includes an FPGA or other programmable device that performs logic operations without processing computer executable instructions. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Although described herein primarily with respect to digital technology a processor may also include primarily analog components. For example some or all of the signal processing algorithms described herein may be implemented in analog circuitry or mixed analog and digital circuitry. A computing environment can include any type of computer system including but not limited to a computer system based on a microprocessor a mainframe computer a digital signal processor a portable computing device a device controller or a computational engine within an appliance to name a few.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or a combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated articles such as a or an should generally be interpreted to include one or more described items. Accordingly phrases such as a device configured to are intended to include one or more recited devices. Such one or more recited devices can also be collectively configured to carry out the stated recitations. For example a processor configured to carry out recitations A B and C can include a first processor configured to carry out recitation A working in conjunction with a second processor configured to carry out recitations B and C.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted or executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

