---

title: Member time zone inference
abstract: Techniques for inferring a time zone of a user (e.g., a member of an online social network service) are described. According to various embodiments, it is determined that a particular member of an online social networks service is currently located in a particular country. Responsive to determining that a single time zone is associated with the particular country, it is determined that the particular member is currently located in the single time zone. Responsive to determining that multiple time zones are associated with the particular country, an IP address associated with a user login request is accessed, a geographic location associated with the IP address is identified, and a specific one of the multiple time zones that corresponds to the geographic location is identified. It is determined that the particular member is currently located in the specific time zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432466&OS=09432466&RS=09432466
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09432466
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for inferring a time zone of a user e.g. a member of an online social network service .

Online social networks such as LinkedIn offer a wide range of products and services to millions of members. Typically such online social networks are accessible in different countries and thus the members of online social networks may be located in various locations around the world.

Example methods and systems for inferring a time zone of a user e.g. a member of an online social network service are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

According to various example embodiments a member time zone inference system is configured to determine a time zone in which a user e.g. a member of an online social network service is located.

For example in accordance with one example embodiment the system may utilize a combination of member profile attributes and IP address login information associated with a member in order to determine the current time zone of the member. For example the system may first analyze member profile attributes of the member in order to determine if they are currently located in a particular country. For example the system may identify whether a user specified country attribute identifying a particular country is defined in the member profile information of the member e.g. as a result of the member specifying their current country of residence when they opened a member account on the online social network service . Thereafter the system may access publicly available time zone information indicating time zones associated with each of a plurality of countries. If the system determines that a single time zone is associated with the particular country the system may determine that the member is currently located in that single time zone. On the other hand if the system determines that multiple time zones are associated with the particular country then the system may access the last IP address associated with the last member login request from that member e.g. from the last time that member logged into a website . Based on this IP address the system may determine a geographic location e.g. a city associated with the IP address and a time zone associated with that geographic location in order to ultimately identify the specific time zone from among the multiple time zones in that country that the particular member is currently located in.

According to various example embodiments the system may utilize any one of various factors in order to determine the current time zone of the member. For example the system may analyze member profile attributes associated with the member e.g. a user specified country attribute a current employer attribute a current educational attribute etc. . For example as described above the system may determine that the member is likely located in a particular geographic location based on a user specified country attribute or contact information defined in the member profile information of the member e.g. as a result of the member specifying their current country or contact information when they opened a member account on the online social network service . As another example the system may determine that a particular member is currently located in a particular geographic location if a current education attribute included in the member profile associated with that particular member indicates an educational institution located in the particular country. As another example the system may determine that a particular member is currently located in a particular geographic location if a current employer attribute included in the member profile associated with that particular member indicates an employer located in that geographic location. Examples of member profile attributes include without limitation name title industry geographic location contact information current employer previous employer current educational institution previous educational institution degree skills recommendations endorsements company size seniority level and so on. The system may then identify a time zone associated with a geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

In some embodiments the system may also take into account member behavioral activity such as interactions or social activity information posted in connection with various products or features of a website e.g. the online social network service such as LinkedIn . For example if the member posts information on an online social network e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter etc. indicating that they are currently located at a particular venue e.g. a check in or status update on Facebook or LinkedIn at a restaurant event convention hall store city etc. the system may determine that the member is currently located at that venue and may identify the geographic location of that venue. The system may then identify the time zone in which that venue is located based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones in order to ultimately determine that the member is currently located in that time zone.

In some embodiments the system may access geolocation information from a mobile device of the member based on any known geolocation techniques. Thereafter by determining that the member is currently located in a particular geographic location e.g. a particular city the system may identify a time zone associated with that geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

In some embodiments the system may access IP address information associated with login requests received from the member e.g. when a member logs into a website such as website associated with an online social network service . By accessing a recent IP address e.g. from the last 24 hours utilized by the member to login to the site the system may then use known IP address lookup techniques to identify a geographic location associated with this IP address e.g. a city or state . The system may identify a time zone associated with that geographic location based on publically available data indicating correspondences between geographic locations and time zones and determine that the member is currently located in that particular time zone.

It is understood that the system described herein may utilize any combination of the aforementioned sources of information e.g. member profile data member behavioral activity member interactions with the site geolocation information IP address login information and so on in order to determine the particular time zone of the member.

For example in some embodiments the system may take into account any combination of the aforementioned sources of information in order to determine a probability or confidence score indicating the likelihood that the member is currently located in a particular time zone. For example in some embodiments weights may be assigned to each of the various sources of information including user specified country attribute in the member profile data a current university attribute in the member profile data a current employer attribute in the member profile data current location or check in information displayed in a post or status update by the member on an online social network service geolocation information IP address login information and so on . Thus in some example embodiments the system may determine the current time zone of the member based on different sources of information and if there is a discrepancy in these determinations the system may place a greater emphasis on the determination from a first source of information if that first source of information is associated with a higher weight. As an example the system may place a lower weight on member profile data of the member but a higher weight in the geolocation information from the member s mobile device. Accordingly if the member profile data of the member indicates that the member is currently located in the US but the geolocation information from the mobile device of the member indicates a location in Bangalore India the system may determine that the member is currently located in the time zone associated with Bangalore India due to the higher weight assigned to the geolocation information. Put another way in this example the geolocation information effectively overrides the information from the member profile data of the member. Thus the system may generate a higher confidence score associated with the possibility that the member is located in the time zone associated with Bangalore India.

In some embodiments the system may display a user interface allowing a user of the system e.g. an administrator or website personnel to adjust any of the aforementioned weights in accordance with campaign goals and various product objectives. For example the success of some e mail products may depend on understanding the current time zone of the member in order to effectively target emails and other content to the member. If it is important for a particular product to have access to the real time time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for an e mail being sent immediately then the geolocation information IP address information or the social activity information may be given greater importance and be assigned a higher weight whereas the member profile data may be assigned smaller weight. On the other hand if it is important for a particular product to have access to a stable long term time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for weekly or monthly digest e mails being transmitted to the member then perhaps the member profile data may be assigned a higher weight in comparison to other sources of information.

As described above the system may take into account any combination of the aforementioned sources of information in order to determine a probability or confidence score indicating the likelihood that the member is currently located in a particular time zone. In some embodiments the system may perform prediction modeling using one or more prediction models e.g. statistical machine learning models in order to generate the aforementioned confidence score. Examples of prediction models include a logistic regression model a Na ve Bayes model a support vector machines SVM model a decision trees model and a neural network model. For example in some embodiments a prediction model may be trained based on feature data e.g. member profile data social activity information geolocation information IP address login information etc. associated with a large plurality of members located in known time zones. Once trained the prediction module may receive available features associated with a single particular member e.g. member profile data social activity information geolocation information IP address login information etc. in order to determine the likelihood that this member is currently located in a particular time zone.

In some embodiments the system may take into account historical data associated with any of the aforementioned sources of information in order to detect a change in time zone associated with the member and in order to determine whether such a change in time zone represents a permanent or temporary change in time zone. For example by examining the IP address information associated with the member the system may detect a change in the IP address used by the member to login to the site. Based on this information the system may determine not only the current time zone of the member as describe above but also that the current time zone of the member represents a change in time zone. Moreover by analyzing a log of the previous IP addresses used by the member to login to the site the system may determine that since only the last IP address has changed there is a high confidence score or likelihood that this is only a temporary change in time zone. This confidence score or likelihood may be reinforced by any of the other aforementioned sources of information e.g. member profile data social activity information etc. which may not indicate any historical change . On the other hand if the system determines that the last 20 IP addresses used to login to the site have changed to correspond to a new geographic location and that the member profile data of the member indicates a new employer located at that geographic location then the system may determine that there is a high confidence score or likelihood that this is a permanent change in time zone. In some embodiments feature data including such historical information may be fed into a prediction model in order to compute confidence scores as described in more detail above.

The confidence score indicating the likelihood that a change in time zone represents a permanent or temporary change may be valuable in different ways depending on the relevant product or services utilizing this information in accordance with various campaign goals and product objectives. For example if it is important for a particular product to have access to the real time time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for an e mail being sent immediately even if this represents a temporary change in time zone then the system is simply utilize the current time zone of the member. On the other hand suppose it is important for a particular product to have access to the long term time zone of the member e.g. perhaps for weekly or monthly digest e mails being transmitted to the member . In such case the determination that the current time zone represents a temporary change in time zone may result in the previously established time zone of the member being utilized. On the other hand the determination that the current time zone represents a permanent change in time zone may result in the current time zone being utilized.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information hometown address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number .

With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein as a member time zone inference system . The member time zone inference system is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

Turning now to a member time zone inference system includes a time zone inference module and a database . The modules of the member time zone inference system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as a time zone inference device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned time zone inference device may be for example one or more client machines or application servers. The operation of each of the aforementioned modules of the member time zone inference system will now be described in greater detail in conjunction with .

For example in some embodiments time zone inference module may determine that the particular member is currently located in the particular country by identifying a user specified country attribute included in the member profile associated with the particular member the user specified country attribute indicating the particular country. As another example in some embodiments time zone inference module may determine that the particular member is currently located in the particular country by identifying a current education attribute included in the member profile associated with the particular member the current education attribute indicating an educational institution located in the particular country. As another example in some embodiments time zone inference module may determine that the particular member is currently located in the particular country by identifying a current employer attribute included in the member profile associated with the particular member the current employer attribute indicating an employer located in the particular country.

In operation in time zone inference module accesses time zone information indicating time zones associated with each of a plurality of countries. Such time zone information may be accessible in publically available data stores or may be stored in the database . In operation in time zone inference module determines based on the time zone information that a single time zone is associated with the particular country identified in operation . In operation in responsive to determining that a single time zone is associated with the particular country time zone inference module determines that the particular member is currently located in the single time zone. In some embodiments time zone inference module may also update the member profile data associated with the particular member to indicate that the particular member is currently located in the single time zone.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

