---

title: Instant personalization security
abstract: Some embodiments involve methods and systems for instant personalization security. For example, a social networking system can provide a platform for a user to open applications and/or access external websites. In some cases, an application does not have access to the user's fully identifying profile (e.g., UID or other public information). Instead, the application has access to a pseudonymous profile corresponding to a hashed ID that is generated by the platform and provided to the application. Access to the pseudonymous profile enables the application or an external website to personalize its environment without breaching the security of the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483659&OS=09483659&RS=09483659
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09483659
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140902
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 804 924 entitled INSTANT PERSONALIZATION SECURITY filed Mar. 14 2013 and is incorporated by reference herein.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to providing users with a personalized experience when visiting websites or using applications and in particular to instant personalization security.

Instant personalization is a feature that allows a user s experience to be personalized the moment that user visits a third party app or website by bringing the user s profile with the user. The user s profile may include the user s name profile picture gender networks friend list and other information the user has made available. The third party website can present the user a personalized webpage and or application based on the user s profile.

For example when a specific user visits a movie review site while logged into a social networking site the social networking site may share the specific user s profile with the movie review site unnoticeably in the background. Based on the specific user s profile the movie review site can provide the specific user a personalized experience such as a greeting with the specific user s name letting the specific user see movies that friends of the specific user have rated or reviewed and giving movie recommendations based on movies that the specific user has previously liked. 

However security abuses e.g. open redirects and XSS attacks have become a concern for platforms facilitating instant personalization. A particular class of abuses involves platforms providing third party applications with users fully identifying profiles. Here fully identifying profiles refer to profile information that unambiguously identifies specific individuals. Profiles that include a user s full name along with gender and networks often unambiguously identify individuals. Similarly profiles that include IDs that may be used to lookup a user s full name gender and networks can in turn be used to unambiguously identify individuals.

Malicious apps and websites can redirect visitors to third party software e.g. applications and websites webpages that integrate with instant personalization platforms that provide fully identifying profiles. These redirects can happen in background browser windows or quickly without visitor knowledge. Upon redirect these platforms will provide the third party software e.g. applications websites with fully identifying profiles for the visitors. The malicious app or website can then exploit any open redirect or XSS vulnerability in the third party applications and websites to retrieve the visitors fully identifying profiles. This in turn can be used to blackmail users who visit compromising malicious apps and websites. In general platforms facilitating instant personalization through fully identifying profiles are subject to a range of such attacks.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a variety of methods and systems for instant personalization security. The system includes a graph API server to interact with a particular user device. When the particular user logs onto the system the system may provide a platform instantiated on the particular user device for the particular user to use applications or visit websites. When a specific application is integrated with the platform the specific application does not have access to the particular user s fully identifying profile. The particular user has options to either authorize or reject releasing the user s fully identifying profile to the specific application. The user s fully identifying profile may include the user s full name or user identification UID . UID is a unique number assigned to the particular user s profile in the system that can in turn be used to look up the user s full name.

Without the particular user s authorization the specific application only has access to a pseudonymous profile. The pseudonymous profile may include the user s first name last initial and a small profile picture of the particular user along with the first names last initials and small profile pictures of the user s friends. The specific application can still provide certain personalized experiences to the particular user based on the released pseudonymous profile e.g. providing greetings on a first name basis content from friends on landing ranking ladders with the user s friends depicted alongside . However the pseudonymous profile cannot be used to reverse lookup the particular user s fully identifying profile in the system. Therefore the user s fully identifying profile can be shielded from many of the privacy vulnerabilities of the specific application.

In some embodiments the specific application s ID can be combined with the particular user s UID in the system and encrypted into a hashed ID. The hashed ID is unique to the particular user and thus can be used by the specific application to identify the particular user going forward. Via the hashed ID the specific application can access the pseudonymous profile of the particular user. The pseudonymous profile may also include the user s friends hashed IDs which can be used by the specific application to identify friends of the user who are also using the application.

One or more options can be provided for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application to access the particular user s fully identifying profile e.g. UID full name in the system. Upon the user s authorization an access token can be provided to the specific application to access a subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile e.g. UID .

In some embodiments the platform is configured to communicate with the system and or directly with the graph API server which stores the particular user s fully identifying profile and pseudonymous profile. The particular user s fully identifying profile may include but is not limited to the particular user s full name or UID profile picture gender birthday networks friend list location language country likes favorite brands news outlets restaurants and any information the particular user chooses to share.

In some embodiments a banner can be provided for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile in the system. The banner s size text size color and location on the platform may be dependent on the attributes of the specific application and the particular user s preferences. The banner requires the particular user to affirmatively act on one of the provided options or close the banner to complete authorization or rejection of the specific application.

In some embodiments a pop up box may also be provided for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application to access the user s fully identifying profile. The pop up box can be introduced non intrusively and does not interrupt the particular user s experience with the specific application. In some implementations the pop up box may open in front of the specific application s window thereby forcing the particular user to take affirmative action such as for example clicking on one of the options provided by the pop up box or closing the pop up box.

The banner and or the pop up box may include options for the particular user to select and authorize different levels of privacy e.g. level 1 level 2 and level 3 regarding different applications. Each level of privacy corresponds to a specific subset of the user s fully identifying profile.

In some embodiments the specific application the banner and or the pop up box may be presented to the particular user on different GUI interfaces. The particular user may bring the specific application in front of or behind the banner and or the pop up box.

In some embodiments the particular user can take alternative actions to grant the specific application authorization to access the user s fully identifying profile in the system. For example the particular user can choose to pay the specific application with the particular user s account on the networking system or respond to a permission dialog from the specific application. The system may treat these alternative actions as authorizations to release the particular user s fully identifying profile to the specific application.

When the particular user takes an affirmative action either authorizing or rejecting the specific application to access the user s fully identifying profile the banner and or pop up box for the specific application may fade away permanently. In some embodiments whenever the specific application is re integrated with the platform options are provided for the particular user to authorize or reject access by the specific application. If the particular user rescinds a prior authorization or decides to disable the specific application the platform and or the networking system can stand proxy to request the specific application s provider to delete the particular user s fully identifying profile. In the absence of users fully identifying profiles users of the specific application may identify invite and communicate with each other based on users hashed IDs and other pseudonymous profiles.

In some embodiments the birthday of the particular user can be combined with the user s UID and the specific application s ID to generate a hashed ID for the particular user and the specific application.

In some embodiments the hash function is a one way hash function. The hash function may include but is not limited to GOST HAVAL MD2 MD4 MD5 PANAMA RADIOGATUN RIPEMD RIPEMD 128 256 RIPEMD 160 RIPEMD 320 SHA 0 SHA 1 SHA 256 224 SHA 512 384 SHA 3 TIGER 2 192 160 128 WHIRLPOOL or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the combination IDs of the specific application s ID and the user s UID are salted with a sequence of bytes before being passed through the hash function. The sequence of bytes can be a fixed sequence of bytes a variable sequence of bytes and or a randomly generated sequence of bytes.

In some embodiments the hash function is iteratively applied to the combined IDs for n times. In the first repetition the combined IDs are passed as input to the hash function. In subsequent repetitions output of the hash function is passed as input to the same hash function. The same process is repeated for n times in which n can be equal or larger than 1 000 to generate the final hashed ID.

In some embodiments instant personalization security can be implemented on desktop web pages and mobile web pages. For example an iFrame can be hosted on a particular user device for the particular user to access web pages to use mobile applications and or visit web sites.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of modifications in various aspects all without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Similarly some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Moreover while the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment. Such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to providing users with a personalized experience when users visit websites or use applications. More specifically various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for providing instant personalization security. Traditionally when a specific application is integrated with a platform provided by a service provider the service provider shares the particular user s fully identifying profile with the specific application. The specific application may further share the particular user s fully identifying profile with other service and application providers inconspicuously. In contrast various embodiments of the present disclosure support providing the specific application the pseudonymous profile of a particular user. In some embodiments the particular user s user identification UID can be combined with the specific application s identification and encrypted into a hashed ID. The specific application only has access to the hashed ID unless explicitly authorized by the particular user. Upon the user s authorization an access token is provided to the specific application to access a subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile.

While examples described herein refer to a networking system the descriptions should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present disclosure. Various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. For example instant personalization security may be implemented on any user device in using an application or any computing system for providing a service to users. For another example instant personalization security may be implemented in any computing system having a web server system. The web server system may include a database management system DBMS such as HBase MySQL FoxPro IBM DB2 Linter Microsoft SQL Server Oracle PostgreSQL and SQLite etc.

The networking system further described below in conjunction with comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users and or objects an access management system and a plurality of databases such as database . Users can store data e.g. photos videos messages electronic documents e mails records and related analytics e.g. usage analytics in the networking system . The data can be submitted through various user devices and or other devices to allow the data to be stored on database . As illustrated in these devices and tools may use network to submit and retrieve information from the networking system .

In some embodiments users join the networking system and then add connections to other users or objects of the networking system to which they desire to be connected. As further described below in conjunction with users of the networking system may be individuals or entities such as businesses organizations universities and manufacturers. The networking system allows its users to interact with each other as well as with other objects maintained by the networking system . In some embodiments the networking system allows users to interact with third party websites and the financial account provider .

Based on stored data about users objects and connections between users and or objects the networking system generates and maintains a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents an object or user that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

In some embodiments the networking system generates web pages. When receiving a request of a specific web page from a particular user device the networking system may provide the web page based on factors such as specific attributes parameters and settings of the particular user device and or application requesting the specific web page etc. The networking system may further provide links to static resources that are not stored on the system .

User devices can be any computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment user devices are a conventional computer system such as a computer or laptop . In another embodiment user devices may be a mobile device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. User devices are configured to communicate with access management system and or the financial account provider via the network . In one embodiment a user device executes an application allowing a user of the user devices to interact with the access management system . For example user devices can execute a browser application to enable interaction between the user devices and access management system via the network . In another embodiment user devices interact with access management system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as IOS or ANDROID .

User devices can be configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network may include one or more networks of any type i.e. wired and or wireless . For example the network may include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN an ad hoc network the Internet an intranet a personal area network PAN a storage area network a home area network a campus area network a backbone network a metropolitan area network MAN an enterprise private network a virtual private network a virtual network a cellular telephone network a satellite network a telephone network e.g. a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an internet work or a combination of two or more of these. The network may use technologies such as Ethernet as defined by IEEE 802.XX 4G Long Term Evolution LTE 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced or a combination of two or more of these.

The networking protocols used in the network may include Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP Internetwork Packet Exchange Sequenced Packet Exchange IPX SPX User Datagram Protocol UDP Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Post Office Protocol POP3 File Transfer Protocol FTP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP X.25 AX.25 AppleTalk or a combination of two or more of these. Data exchanged over the network may be represented using formats such as HTML SGML based HTML and or XML based HTML.

Each user of the networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images videos or other objects. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information on users of the networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the edge store .

As further described below a user profile may be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user may specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in the user profile that limit information from a financial account that the networking system is permitted to access. For example a privacy setting limits the networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits the networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing the networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amounts transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any other suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by the networking system . In one embodiment information from the financial account is stored in the user profile store . In other embodiments it may be stored in the financial account store which is further described below.

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his or her connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social networking system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the networking system .

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in the user profile store . An entity is a non individual user of the networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors may be associated with pages in the content store allowing networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via the networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing the networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from the user profile store the action log or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store may also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In some embodiments the action logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example the action logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in the networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows the action logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in the content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the networking system to track user actions on the networking system as well as external websites or applications that communicate information to the networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the networking system including commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the networking system as well as other applications operating on the networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites or applications and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the networking system . Because users of the networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by the action logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow the action log to record further information about additional types of user actions. In some embodiments content of the action log may be stored in the database .

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the networking system sharing a link with other users of the networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the networking system . The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

Ptail is an internal tool in the networking system to aggregate user data streams from a scribed system. The user data streams may be collected from web servers backend servers user scripts and Chrome applications etc. Periodically Ptail provides and caches Ptail checkpoints in memory of application nodes e.g. Puma node .

Puma node is a near real time analytic engine which is designed for analytics and insight reports e.g. demographic breakdowns website analyses Clicks Likes Shares Comments and Impressions and can be used for processing and computing time series data. In some embodiments Puma node may batch data for a predetermined period of time e.g. 1.5 seconds 20 seconds or 5 minutes before either forwarding them for further processing or storing them in HBase. In some embodiments Puma node may start a new batch when the last flush is completed to avoid lock contention issues.

Graph API server provides a simple and consistent view of the social graph of users on the networking system . In some embodiments graph API server uniformly represents objects in the social graph e.g. people photos events and pages and the connection between them e.g. friend relationships shared content and photo tags . Each object in the social graph may have a unique ID. Properties of an object can be accessed by fetching them with the unique ID of the object. Alternatively people and pages with usernames can be accessed using their usernames as their corresponding IDs.

In one embodiment the database may be defined as a computer system for serving data to users. The database may be a computer system as described in . In some embodiments the database may include for example an HBase a MySQL a Hadoop machine a file server machine or a computer connected to multiple storage devices.

The database may contain any type of computer writable and readable storage media. By way of example the storage media may include a volatile memory i.e. a random access memory RAM etc. a non volatile memory i.e. a flash memory a read only memory ROM etc. a hard disk an optical disc a floppy disk a magnetic tape a solid state drive SSD a secure digital SD card or any suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these.

When the particular user logs onto the networking system the networking system may provide a platform instantiated on the particular user device for the user to use applications or visit websites. The platform is configured to communicate with the networking system or directly with the graph API server .

In one embodiment when a specific application is integrated with the platform the graph API server may get the specific application s ID via the platform . The specific application s ID can be combined with the particular user s UID in the networking system and encrypted into a hashed ID e.g. a string or an integer according to a hash function e.g. a one way hash function . The hashed ID is provided to the specific application for identification of and or interactions with the particular user. The specific application can use the hashed ID to identify the particular user and the prior and subsequent interactions. However in the absence of the particular user s fully identifying UID the specific application has no access to the particular user s fully identifying profile on the networking system .

The hashed ID can be unique to the particular user and the specific application. If either the application ID or UID is different a different hashed ID can be derived. For example when the specific application is integrated with a platform of another user s device another user s UID produces a different combination of application ID and UID which results in a different hashed ID. For another example when the particular user opens a different application on the platform of the particular user device a different combination of application ID and UID leads to another different hashed ID.

The hashed ID is not a function of time and remains the same if the hash function and the combination of application ID and UID are unchanged. For example the same hashed ID can be derived regardless whether the particular user opens the specific application today or 30 days from now as long as the hash function and the combined IDs remain the same.

In one embodiment a banner can be provided on the platform for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile in the networking system . The banner s size text size color and location on the display screen are determined by the attributes of the specific application and the particular user s preferences. For example the banner can be placed on the top or bottom of the display window. For another example the banner can be a rolling ticker to attract attention from the particular user. The banner requires the particular user to affirmatively click on one of the options e.g. allow reject or cross out provided by the banner. In the absence of the user s affirmative authorization the specific application can access only the hashed ID. In some implementations the specific application may also access some pseudonymous basic information of the particular user via the hashed ID. The pseudonymous basic information may include for example first name last initial and profile photo URLs.

In another embodiment a pop up box can also be provided on the platform for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile. The pop up box can be introduced non intrusively so it does not interrupt the particular user s experience with the specific application. For example the background of the pop up box can be transparent. For another example a visual or an audio notification can be provided for the particular user. The visual notification may include bold blinking or some other font formatting options to make the pop up box prominent. Alternatively the audio notification may include but not be limited to a beep or other sounds.

In some embodiments the pop up box may open in front of the specific application s window thereby forcing the particular user to take affirmative action such as for example authorizing or rejecting the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile or closing the pop up box.

In some embodiments the banner and or the pop up box may be presented to the particular user on GUI interfaces different from that of the specific application. The particular user may choose to bring the specific application in front of or behind the banner and or the pop up box.

The particular user may authorize the specific application by selecting an authorization option or simply crossing out the banner or the pop up box. Upon authorization from the particular user an access token is provided to the specific application to access a subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile. With the access token the specific application may get the particular user s first name and last initial profile picture gender networks friend list location language country and other information that the particular user would like to share with everyone else.

Based on an authorized profile of the particular user the specific application may offer the particular user additional personalized experiences and services. These personalized services may be helpful for the particular user to deepen personal connections with other users and help the particular user discover additional interesting and meaningful information.

For example the authorized profile may include the particular user s likes or past statements on community pages of the networking system . If the particular user likes a musical artist for example U2 the first song the particular user hears when visiting Pandora may be a U2 song or something Pandora considers similar.

In some embodiments options with multiple levels of privacy can be included in the banner and or the pop up box so that the particular user may select and authorize different levels e.g. level 1 level 2 and level 3 of privacy for any specific application. For example under level 1 the specific application may only access a basic subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile for example the particular user s first name last name and profile picture etc. Under level 2 additional information is added to the subset under level 1 for example the particular user s gender location friend list language and or country etc. Under level 3 the specific application may access the entire profile of the particular user in the networking system including all information that the particular user would like to share with the public. In some embodiments the banner and or the pop up box may provide scrollbars for the particular user to select and authorize a specific level of privacy.

In some embodiments the particular user may take alternative affirmative actions to authorize the specific application accessing his or her fully identifying profile in the networking system . For example the particular user may authorize to for pay the specific application with the particular user s account on the networking system or respond to a permission dialog from the specific application e.g. entering the particular user s birthday . The networking system may treat these alternative actions from the particular user as an authorization to release his or her fully identifying profile to the specific application.

In some embodiments authorization from the particular user may be conditioned upon promises from the specific application s provider of not releasing the particular user s fully identifying profile to any other third party application service and or product providers. The authorized profile may be used by the specific application only to enhance experience and services to the particular user.

When the particular user takes an affirmative action authorizing or declining the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile the banner and or the pop up box for the specific application may fade away permanently. In some embodiments the banner and or the pop up box are presented to the particular user every time the particular user re opens the specific application. Even if the particular user has granted the specific application access to his or her fully identifying profile on a prior occasion the particular user may choose to rescind the authorization or disable the specific application altogether. When the particular user rescinds a prior authorization the platform or the graph API server may act as a proxy to request the specific application s server s and provider s to delete the particular user s fully identifying profile.

In some embodiments in the absence of authorization from the particular user the hashed ID may be provided to the specific application together with other pseudonymous profiles of the particular user e.g. the particular user s profile photo and or first name and last initial . The hashed IDs and the particular user s other pseudonymous profiles can be used by other users of the specific application to identify invite and communicate with the particular user.

In some embodiments in addition to the particular user s UID and the specific application s ID the birthday of the particular user is also combined and used to generate a hashed ID birthday. The hashed ID birthday may represent a blurred version of the particular user s fully identifying profile. The hashed ID birthday can be used by the specific application and other users of the specific application to identify and communicate with the particular user.

In some embodiments instant personalization security may be implemented on desktop web pages and mobile web pages. For example the networking system may host an iFrame on a particular user device. The iFrame communicates with the graph API server and the networking system on behalf of the particular user. When a mobile application or web page is opened on the iFrame the iFrame sends the mobile application ID or web page server ID to the networking system . A banner and or a pop up box may also be provided on the iFrame interface for the particular user to authorize the mobile application or web page to access the user s fully identifying profile in the networking system . Upon receiving a hashed ID and or an access token from the networking system the iFrame releases the received hashed ID and or access token to the mobile application or web page.

In one embodiment to add extra security to the hashed ID a sequence of bytes i.e. the salt can be added to the combined IDs before being passed through the hash function. The salt can be a fixed sequence of bytes a variable sequence of bytes and or a randomly generated sequence of bytes. The added sequence of bytes can protect the hashed ID against dictionary attacks.

In another embodiment the hash function is iteratively applied to the combined IDs for n times. In the first repetition the combined IDs are passed as input to the hash function. In subsequent repetitions output of the hash function is passed as input to the same hash function. The same process is repeated n times in which n can be equal or larger than 1 000 to generate the final hashed ID. Applying the hash function with n iteration counts can add a good amount of extra security to instant personalization against brute force attacks. Attackers would have to endure an enormous amount of tentative hash function digests when brute forcing.

At step the combined IDs of the particular user and the specific application are encrypted into a hashed ID according to a hash function. In one embodiment a sequence of bytes may be added to the combined IDs to increase the security level of the hashed ID. In another embodiment the final hashed ID is generated by applying the hash function to the salted combined IDs and then passing the output of the hash function as an input to the same hash function for n times in which n can be greater or equal to 1 000.

At step the hashed ID is a unique number for the particular user and can be provided for the specific application to identify the particular user. The hashed ID can also be used for the particular user to communicate with other users of the specific application. In some embodiments pseudonymous profiles of the particular user such as first name last initial and or profile photo may also be provided to the specific application for identification and communications between users of the specific application.

At step one or more options are provided for the particular user to take affirmative actions either to authorize or reject the specific application to access the particular user s fully identifying profile. In one embodiment the particular user may make a selection by clicking on a banner or a pop box presented on the platform . In another embodiment the networking system may analyze the particular user s alternative actions to determine whether the particular user intends the specific application to access his or her fully identifying profile.

At step upon the particular user s authorization an access token is provided to the specific application to access a subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile. In one embodiment the banner and or the pop up box may include multiple levels of privacy for the particular user to designate for the specific application. Each level of privacy corresponds to a specific subset of the user s fully identifying profile. If the particular user authorizes a particular level of privacy for the specific application the corresponding subset of the user s fully identifying profile is released to the specific application for providing personalized experience and services for the particular user.

While the method of is described in the context of a single networking system the present disclosure contemplates a plurality of networking systems and or servers. The plurality of networking systems and or servers can be located at a single location or a variety of locations.

The computer system may take a variety of physical forms. By way of example the computer system may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer a tablet PC a wearable computer an interactive kiosk a mobile phone a server a mainframe computer a mesh connected computer a single board computer SBC e.g. a BeagleBoard a PC on a stick a Cubieboard a CuBox a Gooseberry a Hawkboard an Mbed an OmapZoom an Origenboard a Pandaboard a Pandora a Rascal a Raspberry Pi a SheevaPlug a Trim Slice etc. an embedded computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate the computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

The computer system preferably may include an operating system such as but not limited to Windows Linux or Unix . The operating system may include a file management system which organizes and keeps track of files. In some embodiments a separate file management system may be provided. The separate file management system can interact smoothly with the operating system and provide enhanced and or more features such as improved backup procedures and or stricter file protection.

The at least one processor may be any suitable processor. The type of the at least one processor may comprise one or more from a group comprising a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a graphics processing unit GPU a physics processing unit PPU a digital signal processor a network processor a front end processor a data processor a word processor and an audio processor.

The one or more bus is configured to couple components of the computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more bus may include a graphics bus e.g. an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HyperTransport HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an Infiniband interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Although the present disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnects.

The one or more network interface may include one or more of a modem or network interface. It will be appreciated that a modem or network interface can be considered to be part of the computer system . The interface can include an analog modem an asymmetric digital subscribe line ADSL modem a cable modem a doubleway satellite modem a power line modem a token ring interface a Cambridge ring interface a satellite transmission interface or any suitable interface for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The interface can include one or more input and or output devices. The I O devices can include by way of example but not limitation a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device disk drives printers a scanner a touch screen a Tablet screen and other input and or output devices including a display device. The display device can include by way of example but not limitation a cathode ray tube CRT display a liquid crystal display LCD a 3 D display or some other applicable known or convenient display device. For simplicity it is assumed that controllers of any devices not depicted in the example of reside in the interface.

The computer readable medium may include any medium device that is accessible by the processor . As an example and not by way of limitation the computer readable medium may include volatile memory e.g. a random access memory RAM a dynamic RAM DRAM and or a static RAM SRAM and non volatile memory i.e. a flash memory a read only memory ROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable programmable ROM EPROM and or an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM . When appropriate the volatile memory and or non volatile memory may be single ported or multiple ported memory. This disclosure contemplates any suitable memory. In some embodiments the computer readable medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc i.e. a CD ROM or a digital versatile disk DVD an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a secure digital SD card an SD drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. The computer readable medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Programs may be stored on the one or more computer readable media . As an example but not by way of limitation the computer system may load the programs to an appropriate location on the one or more compute readable media for execution. The programs when executed may cause the computer system to perform one or more operations or one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In some implementations the operations may include but are not limited to providing a platform for a user to use applications and or access web pages when a specific application or a web page is integrated with the platform combining an identifier the specific application s ID of the application or the web page with an identifier of the user the particular user s UID in a networking system encrypting the combined UIDIDs of the particular user and the specific application ID into a hashed ID according to a hash function providing to the application or the web page the hashed ID for the specific application to identify the particular user providing one or more options for the particular user to authorize or reject the specific application or the web page to access the user s fully identifying profile and upon the particular user s authorization providing the specific application or the web page an access token to access a subset of the particular user s fully identifying profile in the networking system.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the operations or methods may be instantiated locally i.e. on one local computer system and may be distributed across remote computer systems. For example it may be determined that the available computing power of the local computer system is insufficient or that additional computing power is needed and certain aspects of the operations may bed offloaded to the cloud.

While the computer readable medium is shown in an embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium shall be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the computer and that cause the computer to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

Further examples of computer readable medium machine readable storage medium machine readable medium or computer readable storage medium include but are not limited to recordable type medium such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks or Digital Versatile Disks among others and transmission type medium such as digital and analog communication links.

In some circumstances operation of a memory device such as a change in state from a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa for example may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. With particular types of memory devices such a physical transformation may comprise a physical transformation of an article to a different state or thing. For example but without limitation for some types of memory devices a change in state may involve an accumulation and storage of charge or a release of stored charge. Likewise in other memory devices a change of state may comprise a physical change or transformation in magnetic orientation or a physical change or transformation in molecular structure such as from crystalline to amorphous or vice versa. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all examples in which a change in state for a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa in a memory device may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. Rather the foregoing are intended as illustrative examples.

A storage medium typically may be non transitory or comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include a device that is tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change its physical state. Thus for example non transitory refers to a device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

The computer may be but is not limited to a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a stand alone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

Some portions of the detailed description may be presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or generating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the methods of some embodiments. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the techniques are not described with reference to any particular programming language and various embodiments may thus be implemented using a variety of programming languages.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as programs. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions that are set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms. The disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of computer readable medium used to actually effect the distribution.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but is not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the teachings to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the disclosure are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the disclosure as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teaching of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems and not necessarily to the system described above. Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

