---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring vehicle health with connected applications
abstract: Systems and methods that allow a user to enhance the experience on their mobile device and provide better information to make decisions based on sharing vehicle health information received from diagnostic systems on the car with applications on their mobile device. The system may receive trip information from a user device and vehicle health information from the vehicle and the user device. The system may generate an interactive map based on the trip information and the vehicle health information. The system may provide one or more notifications for the user based on the trip information and the vehicle health information. The system may receive calendar information and generate interactive maps and notifications based on the vehicle health information and the calendar information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09541419&OS=09541419&RS=09541419
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09541419
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140318
---
Today car manufactures are adding computers with entertainment communication and automobile health tracking information to automobiles. Additionally there are many after market products that are meant to assist a customer to monitor and diagnose their cars by allowing them access to the information through a web portal or application on their smart phone device. Most of these products require internet connectivity through another device such as a smart phone. There are many smart phone applications such as mapping software that allow a user to navigate to a destination. The mapping applications may be viewable on the built in electronic screen in the car but the applications and services are not integrated with the cars computer.

The embodiments disclosed herein include systems and methods that allow a user to enhance the experience on their mobile device and provide better information to make decisions based on sharing vehicle health information received from diagnostic systems on the car with applications on their mobile device. For example a user may want to navigate to a location 1 000 miles away. The user may provide trip information to a remote system using an application on her mobile device. Diagnostic systems on the vehicle may provide vehicle health information to the remote system. The remote system may determine that the vehicle will need servicing at some point during the trip and may provide servicing information to the user s mobile device. The servicing information may inform the user of the type of servicing that will be needed e.g. oil change and include points on a map displayed on the mobile device that represent servicing locations located along the route for the planned trip.

This system may inform the user where gas stations are located along the route. For example if the user plans to travel 300 miles but the car diagnostic systems determine that the vehicle gas tank needs to be refilled in 250 miles the remote system may provide this information to the user s mobile device and include points corresponding to gas stations on the planned route. The remote system may filter the information based on various parameters e.g. lowest price for gas gas stations no more than 10 miles from the planned route . This enhanced information may also apply to a specific type of food or other stop that can be located and the system may provide locations to stop along the route. The system may take into account traffic and or weather data.

The smart phone and or other internet accessible device may receive diagnostic and telemetric information from the car through wired or wireless technology and may connect to a host computer or cloud service. This type of interaction will allow for safer driving and better decision making capabilities from the user and could allow wired connections blue tooth NFC or other sharing technologies in order to communicate. This information may be automated while a driver is driving. Also this information may be adjusted by a passenger and or an SMS or through speech to a recipient and may be further integrated with calendar information for example providing information whether you have time to stop for coffee before an afternoon meeting based on the current information.

The description below describes interface modules user profile modules mapping modules vehicle diagnostic modules notification modules personal information modules user devices service providers computer systems and networks that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown while others are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are examples. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

It is further noted that software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made

Communication module may comprise one or more communication devices located on board vehicle . Communication module may comprise one or more transceivers. Communication module may be configured to communicate vehicle health information to user device via network and or direct communication method . Communication module communicate directly with user device using Bluetooth and or Near Field Communications NFC Smart share or other forms of direct communication. Communication module may use a wireless form of communication with user device . User device may connect with communication module using an wired connection such as an auxiliary cable or USB connection . Communication device may include an interactive display that receives commands and input from the driver of vehicle and or the user of user device

Diagnostic module may comprise one or more sensors that monitor vehicle health information of vehicle . Diagnostic module may monitor the tire pressure of each tire on vehicle . Diagnostic module may monitor fluid levels in vehicle such as oil coolant transmission fluid etc. . Diagnostic module may monitor gas tank levels. Diagnostic module may monitor battery health for vehicle . Diagnostic module may monitor engine temperature for vehicle . Diagnostic module may monitor engine revolutions per minute RPMs for vehicle . Diagnostic module may transmit vehicle health information to communication module which then transmits this information to monitoring system and or user device

User device may be for example but not limited to a cellular telephone Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone software client phone a desktop computer a laptop notebook a server a module a satellite phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a smart phone a remote controller a personal computer PC a workstation a handheld PC a handheld MP3 player a handheld video player a personal media player a gaming device a thin system a fat system a network appliance and or other mobile communication device that may be capable of transmitting and or receiving data. Also user device may include one or more transmitters receivers and or transceivers to transmit and or receive one or more signals to and or from other components depicted in including for example monitoring system and communication module

Network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and or receiving a data signal. In addition network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Networks may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which it is communicatively coupled. Networks may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

The components depicted in may transmit and receive data to and from network representing broadcast content user request content parallel search queries parallel search responses and other data. The data may be transmitted and received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example one embodiment may utilize Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In other embodiments the data may be transmitted and or received utilizing other Voice Over IP VOIP or messaging protocols. For example data may also be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols or other protocols and systems suitable for transmitting and receiving broadcast or parallel search data. Data may be transmitted and received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g. Network may also use protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Monitoring system may include one or more devices modules and or components for providing routing information for transmitting data over a network such as for example an IP network and or a PSTN. Monitoring system may include a virtualized data storage pool hosted by one or more third parties such as a service provider not shown . Monitoring system may comprise one or more distributed servers and may be used to store data objects for access by user device vehicle and or network . Monitoring system may be accessed through a web service application programming interface API a cloud storage gateway or through a web based user interface accessible by user device and or vehicle . Monitoring system may be accessed through monitoring application on user device . Monitoring system may communicate data with user device and vehicle using one or more networks such as network .

Monitoring system may include an interface module a mapping module a vehicle diagnostics module a personal information module and a notification module as described herein in reference to . Also in various embodiments monitoring system may be a resolution server or may be a module of or communicatively coupled to a Domain Name System DNS server such as a BIND server for converting host names and domain names into IP addresses over the Internet. Monitoring system may comprise one or more network enabled computers. As referred to herein a network enabled computer system and or device may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. In other embodiments monitoring system may be implemented as part of monitoring application on user device

The interface module may provide an interface between monitoring system and user device . The interface module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface an application programming interface API to interact with user device . User device may interact with interface module via an interface provided by monitoring application . The interface module may receive one or more queries or requests from a user and to provide the received queries or requests to other modules of the monitoring system . The interface module may provide queries or requests to mapping module wherein the queries or requests may determine an operation of the mapping module . In response to receiving a query or request from a user the interface module may provide the queries or requests e.g. control signals etc. to the mapping module vehicle diagnostics module personal information module and notification module .

In another exemplary embodiment the interface module may present information or data to the user via a display. The interface module may display information or data upon a request from user device or the interface module may automatically display information or data to user device . User device may interact with interface module via monitoring application using manual input e.g. typing into a keyboard or keypad etc. voice input touch screen input graphical input e.g. camera or camcorder and or any other method for inputting information or data.

Mapping module may receive location information from user device and or vehicle . The location information may be in the form of GPS coordinates corresponding to the current location of user device and or vehicle . Mapping module may receive trip information from user device . Monitoring application and or interface module may provide an graphical interface for the user of user device to provide information associated with an upcoming trip. The trip information may include the date of the trip the starting point and the destination in the form of a street address city state zip code GPS coordinates country etc . The trip information may include one or more limits on the route. For example the user may specify that the trip should avoid toll roads. The user may specify that the trip should include certain waypoints on the route such as cities tourist attractions amusement parks national parks state parks campgrounds etc. . Mapping module may access one or more mapping programs to determine a route for the user based in part on the trip information. Mapping module may provide the route to user device where it may be displayed as an interactive map on the screen of user device . Mapping module may provide the route to communication module where it may be displayed as an interactive map for the driver of vehicle .

Vehicle diagnostics module may receive vehicle health information from vehicle and or user device . User device may receive vehicle health information from vehicle via direct communication method e.g. NFC Bluetooth auxiliary cable . User device may then transmit vehicle health information to diagnostic module via network . Vehicle diagnostics module may request vehicle health information from vehicle and or user device in response to mapping module receiving trip information. Vehicle diagnostics module may periodically request vehicle information from vehicle and or user device

Vehicle health information may include without limitation vehicle s make model year weight gas mileage tire pressure for each tire oil levels gas levels transmission fluid levels odometer reading current speed engine temperature battery health. Vehicle health information may include the odometer reading from the time when the oil filter was last changed in vehicle . Vehicle health information may include the odometer reading for the time when the timing belt or transmission was last changed. Vehicle health information may include an odometer reading for the last time the car had scheduled maintenance. Vehicle health information may include alerts that the timing belt needs to be replaced or that vehicle is due for scheduled maintenance. Vehicle health information may include the odometer reading from the time when new tires were installed on vehicle and or the odometer reading from the time when the tires were last rotated. Vehicle health information may include the mileage rating of the tires. Vehicle health information may include the make and model of vehicle . Vehicle health information may include the minimum tire pressure for the tires on vehicle . Vehicle health information may include vehicle s current velocity direction or current location. Vehicle health information may include telemetry information of vehicle which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated vehicle .

In some embodiments vehicle diagnostics module may maintain a profile for vehicle based in one or more databases not shown . The profile may be based on information associated with vehicle and or the driver e.g. the user of user device . This may include vehicle s Vehicle Identification Number VIN license plate number the driver s name address email address phone number driver s license number etc. Vehicle diagnostics module may periodically receive vehicle health information for vehicle and store it in the profile for that vehicle and or driver in the database. Each time vehicle diagnostics module receives new vehicle health information it may compare it to the information stored in vehicle s profile and update information that has changed. For example when the driver purchases new tires for vehicle he may use communication module to provide this information to monitoring system or he may use user device to provide this information to monitoring system . The information may include whether the tires are new or used the mileage rating for each tire the tire manufacturer the type of tire e.g. winter tires and other information. This information may be stored in the user s profile maintained by vehicle diagnostics module and or a database associated with monitoring system .

Vehicle diagnostics module may compare vehicle health information with the trip information received by mapping module . Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the total distance of the trip with the vehicle health information. Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the estimated time of the trip with the vehicle health information. Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the route from map module with the vehicle health information.

For example user device may provide trip information to monitoring system indicating that the user is planning a trip with a total distance of 500 miles. The vehicle health information may indicate that the oil filter was changed when vehicle had an odometer reading of 30 000 miles and that the current odometer reading of vehicle is 32 700 miles. Vehicle diagnostics module may determine based on the make and model of the vehicle that vehicle will need an oil change within the next 300 miles if vehicle requires an oil change every 3 000 miles . Vehicle diagnostic module may create a diagnostic alert and provide it to mapping module and notification module .

Mapping module may receive the diagnostic alert. Based on the nature of the diagnostic alert mapping module may search various mapping databases to find locations for vehicle mechanics along the planned route. Mapping module may update the route to include locations for mechanics. Mapping module may provide the route on an interactive map that is displayed on user device via monitoring application . The route may include different locations showing where mechanics are located.

Notification module may provide one or more notifications to user device based on the diagnostic alert from vehicle diagnostics module . The notifications may be in the form of a text message an SMS an MMS an audible notification or other alert sent to user device . The notification may appear via monitoring application . The notification may inform the user of user device the nature of the diagnostic alert. In the previous example the notification may inform the user that vehicle should get an oil change before the user leaves for the planned trip. The notification may also be sent to communication module of vehicle .

In the same trip example vehicle health information may indicate that vehicle has enough gas for another 250 miles of highway driving. Vehicle diagnostics module may determine that vehicle will need to refill its tank on the trip i.e. at some point on the route before vehicle has traveled 250 of the 500 mile trip . Vehicle diagnostics module may provide a diagnostic alert to notification module that includes this information. Notification module may send a notification to user device and or communication module informing the user driver that vehicle should fill its tank at some point in the next 250 miles. Mapping module may update the route provided to user device and or communication module to include locations of gas stations near the 250 mile marker of the route provided to user device and or communication module

In the same example vehicle diagnostics module may receive vehicle health information that indicates that the tires on vehicle are rated for 30 000 miles that they were purchased when vehicle had an odometer reading of 50 000 miles and that vehicle s current odometer reading is 79 600 miles. Because the trip information indicates that the tires will exceed their rated mileage while vehicle is on the 500 mile trip vehicle diagnostics module may generate a diagnostic alert for mapping module and or notification module . Based on the diagnostic alert mapping module may provide user device with a map showing the locations of tire dealers within a certain distance of user device s current location. Mapping module may update the route to include locations of mechanics and or tire dealers along the route. Notification module may transmit one or more notifications to user device and or communications module that include information about vehicle s need for new tires before or during the planned trip. The one or more notifications may include contact information for local tire dealers and or mechanics.

Notification module and mapping module may provide updated information based on the current location of user device and or vehicle . Vehicle and or user device may periodically transmit their current location to monitoring system . If vehicle is undertaking the planned trip mapping module may track how long vehicle has been traveling. Mapping module may update the route to include locations of nearby restaurants fast food hotels and or motels based at least in part on the current location of vehicle the amount of time that vehicle has been traveling and or the time of day. For example if the current time is after 8 pm mapping module may update the route to include locations of nearby hotels. Notification module may send notifications to user device and or communication module where the content of the notification is based at least in part on the current location of vehicle the amount of time that vehicle has been traveling and or the time of day. For example if the current time is after 6 pm and vehicle is on the trip notification module may send a notification to user device and or communication module with an interactive feature that queries the driver of vehicle and or user of user device whether he is interested in stopping for dinner. The notification may include contact information for nearby restaurants fast food locations convenience stores hotels and or motels. The notification may query the user as to whether the user wants to hear more information. The notification may allow the user to select a time when the user driver is planning to stop for dinner. Notification module may receive the user s response and mapping module may provide locations of places to eat at the spot on the route where vehicle is anticipated to be at the selected time based on the current time vehicle s current speed and the current location of vehicle user device .

Interface module may allow the user of user device to specify preferences and or limitations on the information displayed on the route provided by mapping module and or the notifications from notification module . User device may specify that mapping module should only display locations that are within a certain distance of the planned route. User device may specify that mapping module should only display the locations of certain restaurants e.g. only Burger King locations certain types of restaurants e.g. only fast food certain types of lodgings e.g. only 4 star hotels certain price ranges e.g. only lodging that is less than 100 night and other relevant limitations. Mapping module may update the mapped route based on these limitations. Notification module may provide notifications based on these limitations.

Personal information module may receive calendar information from user device and or vehicle . User device may include one or more scheduling programs and or calendar programs. Calendar information may include the type of scheduled event e.g. a meeting an appointment recreational activity etc. the date and time of the event the event location e.g. the street address city state zip code etc. a brief description of the event names and contact information for other people involved in the event and other information. Personal information module may periodically receive calendar information from user device and or vehicle . Personal information module may coordinate with mapping module vehicle diagnostics module and notification module to provide user device and or communication module with relevant information based on the vehicle health information and the calendar information.

For example the user of user device may have a meeting stored in a calendar application on user device . The meeting may be a business meeting on Mar. 10 2014 at 2 pm at 12340 Johnson Lane Alexandria Va. Personal information module may receive the calendar information that includes these details. The meeting location may be 20 miles from user device s and or vehicle s current location. Vehicle diagnostics module may receive vehicle health information for vehicle indicating that vehicle has enough gas left for 15 miles of driving. Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the vehicle health information to the calendar information received by personal information module and determine that vehicle does not have enough gas to make the drive to the meeting location. Vehicle diagnostics module may generate a diagnostic alert for mapping module and or notification module . Notification module may transmit one or more notifications to user device and or communication module . The notifications may inform the user driver that vehicle will need to be refilled before the March 10 meeting. The notifications may include locations of nearby gas stations. Mapping module may provide one or more maps to user device and or communications module that show the locations of gas stations that are nearby user device s current location that are on the route between the current location and the meeting location and or that are nearby the meeting location. The maps and notifications may be transmitted based on the current date and time for example the notification may be sent one day in advance of the meeting . The notification and map may include traffic information and or weather information to inform the user driver if he should leave earlier for the meeting.

In one embodiment user device may include an intermediate application configured to process vehicle health data that it receives directly from communications module via communications method . The intermediate application may be monitoring application . The intermediate application may be a background application that works with in the background with the operating system of user device without the user being aware of it. The intermediate application may convert the vehicle health data into a standardized format that is universally recognizable by a variety of other applications on user device . The intermediate application may directly request vehicle health data from vehicle using On board diagnostics Parameter identifiers PIDs and convert the received data into a format that other applications would be able to read and process. In this way different applications from different developers may interface with the intermediate application to use different components of the vehicle health information. The user device would not need a single common user accessible application to interface directly with communication module diagnostics module and or vehicle . Instead the intermediate application on user device would communicate with communication module and or diagnostics module via communication method and request vehicle health data on behalf of other applications running on user device . Upon receiving the requested data the intermediate application may then format the data so that the other applications on user device can understand it. In other embodiments the intermediate application may be incorporated into communications module diagnostics module and or another component of vehicle .

At block a monitoring system may acquire trip information. The trip information may be received from user device and or communication device of vehicle . The trip information may include the date of the trip the estimated departure time the starting point and the destination in the form of a street address city state zip code GPS coordinates country etc . The trip information may include one or more limits on the route. For example the user may specify that the trip should avoid toll roads. The user may specify that the trip should include certain waypoints on the route such as cities tourist attractions amusement parks national parks state parks campgrounds etc. . The trip information may include the current location of user device and or communication device corresponding to the current location of vehicle . For example the user of user device may be planning a trip from Richmond Va. to Cincinnati Ohio User may enter the starting point and destination using an interface provided by monitoring application . The user may enter the departure date Apr. 1 2014 . The user may enter one or more restrictions on the trip. For example the user may want to stop in Huntington W. Va. and may input this information using monitoring application . Mapping module may calculate the trip distance based on the starting and ending points and the restrictions 530 miles . After acquiring trip information the method may proceed to block .

At block mapping module may generate a map of a route based on the trip information. The route may be displayed on as an interactive map on user device and or communication module . The route may include turn by turn directions. The route may include estimated time for the trip. The route may include traffic information e.g. traffic jams accidents road construction . Continuing with the previous example mapping module may generate a route from Richmond to Cincinnati that goes through Huntington W. Va. The user of user device may see the route on the screen of user device and or via communication module of vehicle . Method may proceed to block .

At block vehicle diagnostics module may acquire vehicle health information from diagnostics module and or user device . Vehicle health information may include without limitation vehicle s make model year weight gas mileage tire pressure for each tire oil levels gas levels transmission fluid levels current odometer reading current speed engine temperature battery health. Vehicle health information may include the odometer reading from the time when the oil filter was last changed in vehicle . Vehicle health information may include the odometer reading from the time when new tires were installed on vehicle and or the odometer reading from the time when the tires were last rotated. Vehicle health information may include the mileage rating of the tires. Vehicle health information may include the make and model of vehicle . Vehicle health information may include the minimum tire pressure for the tires on vehicle . Vehicle health information may include vehicle s current velocity direction or current location. Vehicle health information may include telemetry information of vehicle which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated vehicle .

Continuing with the previous example vehicle may have a current odometer reading of 50 000 miles. Vehicle may have last had an oil change at 47 200 miles. The vehicle health information may indicate that for this make and model the oil filter should be replaced every 3 000 miles. Vehicle may have a 15 gallon gas tank that is half full and may have an average gas mileage rating of 30 miles gallon. Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the vehicle health information to the trip information. Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the total trip distance 515 miles with the number of miles vehicle may be able to drive on its current tank of gas 30 miles to the gallon 7.5 gallons 225 miles . Vehicle diagnostics module may compare the total trip distance with the amount of miles remaining before the oil filter should be changed 3 000 50 000 47 200 200 miles . Vehicle diagnostics module may determine that vehicle will need its gas tank refilled approximately 225 miles into the trip and change the oil filter approximately 200 miles into the trip. Method may proceed to block .

At block mapping module may update the map of the route based on the comparison between the vehicle health information and the trip information. The map of the route may be updated to include locations of service stations mechanics gas stations car dealerships and other similar locations that can provide vehicle services for vehicle . The locations may be at points along the route where vehicle diagnostics module determines that those services will be needed based on the comparison performed in block . The locations may be nearby the current location of vehicle and or user device . The locations added to the map may be limited based on preferences specified by the user of user device using monitoring application and or communication module . The user may request to see only the locations offering the lowest prices. The user may request to see only locations within a maximum distance of the route. The user may request to have the map only display locations of a certain business e.g. only Shell stations . Other limitations may be applied.

The updated map may be displayed for the user on user device and or communication module . The updated route may be an interactive map similar to the one generated in block . Continuing with the previous example mapping module may create an updated route from Richmond to Cincinnati with a stop in Huntington W. Va. that includes locations of gas stations within a certain distance of the 225 mile point of the route. The updated map may include locations of mechanics and automotive shops within a certain distance of the 200 mile point of the route where vehicle may get the oil filter changed . The updated map may include locations of mechanics within a certain distance of vehicle and or user device s current location in case user would like to change the oil filter before he leaves on the trip . Method may proceed to block .

At block the notification module may generate a notification based on the comparison between the vehicle health information and the trip information. The notifications may be in the form of a text message an SMS an MMS an audible notification or other alert sent to user device and or communications module . The notification may include content that informs the user of user device driver of vehicle of the new information added to the updated map generated in block . Continuing with the previous example user device may receive a notification informing the user that he does not have enough gas in the tank for the planned trip. The notification may include contact information and locations of various gas stations near the current location of user device . The notification may include an interactive component requesting whether the user would like to fill up his tank before he leaves or while on the trip. Notification module may receive a response from user device to the initial notification. If the user indicates he wants to fill up on the trip notification module may generate a second notification and transmit it to user device and or communication module after the vehicle has embarked on the planned trip. Notification module may generate a notification informing the user that vehicle will need its oil filter replaced during the trip. The notification may include contact information for nearby mechanics. The notifications may be transmitted the day before the departure date for the trip. The user may specify how far in advance of the trip departure date he would like to receive notifications using the interface on monitoring application . Method may proceed to block .

At block the personal information module may acquire calendar information from user device and or communication module . Calendar information may include the type of scheduled event e.g. a meeting an appointment recreational activity etc. the date and time of the event the event location e.g. the street address city state zip code etc. a brief description of the event names and contact information for other people involved in the event and other information. Personal information module may periodically receive calendar information from user device and or vehicle . The user driver may configure monitoring application and or communication device to provide calendar information to personal information module on a regular basis.

For example the user of user device may have an appointment stored in a calendar application on user device . The appointment may be a doctor s appointment on Mar. 31 2014 at 8 am at 12340 Washington St Richmond Va. The calendar information may include the name of the doctor the doctor s contact information and the purpose of the event physical exam . Method may proceed to block .

At block vehicle diagnostics module may acquire vehicle health information. This process may be the same as block in . Continuing with the previous example vehicle health information may indicate that the tire pressure for vehicle is low. Diagnostics module may transmit this information to user device which may transmit it to vehicle diagnostics module . Method may proceed to block .

At block mapping module may generate a map based on the calendar information and the vehicle health information. Vehicle diagnostics module and or mapping module may compare the calendar information with the vehicle health information. Mapping module and or vehicle diagnostics module may determine that vehicle needs to have its tires inflated. Mapping module may generate a map showing a route from vehicle or user s current location to the doctor s office. The map may include locations of gas stations and or other service stations where vehicle s tires may be inflated. The map may highlight locations that are near the doctor s office and or along the route between vehicle s current location and the doctor s office. Note the starting point for the route may be another location specified by the user driver e.g. the user s home place of employment restaurant . As with the map generated in block of the locations on the map may be filtered based on preferences specified by the user. The map may be presented on user device and or communications module within a certain minimum amount of time of the appointment time e.g. mapping module may display the map 24 hours before the appointment . Method may proceed to block .

At block notification module may transmit one or more notifications to user device and or communication module based on the calendar information and the vehicle health information. In this example the notification may inform the user driver that the tires on vehicle are low on air and need to be refilled. The notification may include interactive features asking the user whether he would like to refill his tires before or after the doctor s appointment. The notification may ask the user whether he would like to refill his tires on the way to or from the doctor s appointment. The user may respond to the notification via monitoring application and or communication module . Mapping module may update the map based on the user s response to the one or more notifications. In one embodiment blocks and may be reversed e.g. the mapped route provided by the mapping module may be dependent on the user s responses to the notifications . Notifications may be transmitted based on the current date and time for example the notification may be sent one day in advance of the appointment . The notification and map may include traffic information and or weather information to inform the user driver if he should leave earlier for the appointment. The notification may recommend other places of interest that are located on the route to the doctor s office. For example the notification may ask the user if he would like to get coffee on the way to or from the doctor s office. If the user responds affirmatively the mapping module may update the route to include locations of coffee shops located on the route.

The various computing devices above including phones and network equipment generally include computer executable instructions where the instructions may be executable by one or more processors. Computer executable instructions may be compiled or interpreted from computer programs created using a variety of programming languages and or technologies including without limitation and either alone or in combination Java C C Visual Basic Java Script Perl etc. In general a processor or microprocessor receives instructions e.g. from a memory a computer readable medium etc. and executes these instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions and other data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of computer readable media.

Databases data repositories or other data stores described herein such as the data storage may include various kinds of mechanisms for storing accessing and retrieving various kinds of data including a hierarchical database a set of files in a file system an application database in a proprietary format a relational database management system RDBMS etc. Each such data store is generally included within a computing device employing a computer operating system such as one of those mentioned above and are accessed via a network in any one or more of a variety of manners. A file system may be accessible from a computer operating system and may include files stored in various formats. An RDBMS generally employs the Structured Query Language SQL in addition to a language for creating storing editing and executing stored procedures such as the PL SQL language mentioned above.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

With regard to the processes systems methods heuristics etc. described herein it should be understood that although the steps of such processes etc. have been described as occurring according to a certain ordered sequence such processes could be practiced with the described steps performed in an order other than the order described herein. It further should be understood that certain steps could be performed simultaneously that other steps could be added or that certain steps described herein could be omitted. In other words the descriptions of processes herein are provided for the purpose of illustrating certain embodiments and should in no way be construed so as to limit the claims.

Accordingly it is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments and applications other than the examples provided would be apparent upon reading the above description. The scope should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is anticipated and intended that future developments will occur in the technologies discussed herein and that the disclosed systems and methods will be incorporated into such future embodiments. In sum it should be understood that the application is capable of modification and variation.

All terms used in the claims are intended to be given their broadest reasonable constructions and their ordinary meanings as understood by those knowledgeable in the technologies described herein unless an explicit indication to the contrary in made herein. In particular use of the singular articles such as a the said etc. should be read to recite one or more of the indicated elements unless a claim recites an explicit limitation to the contrary. The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

