---

title: Mode-locked laser with free-space optical feedback
abstract: A mode-locked laser amplifier utilizing free-space optical feedback is provided. The amplifier may tap a portion of the input laser signal and tap a portion of the output laser signal, combine the input and output samples in a free-space coupler to form a feedback laser signal, and couple the feedback laser signal back to the input laser signal. The free-space coupler suppresses higher order modes of the output laser signal. The free-space coupler can be tunable to permit selection of the operating mode of the amplifier. A plurality of amplifiers can be utilized to form a multi-stage mode-locked amplifier system. The composite feedback signal can be coupled back to each amplifier stage to lock the operating mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08842361&OS=08842361&RS=08842361
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08842361
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to optical laser systems and in particular to mode locked laser systems having free space feedback couplers.

High average and high peak power lasers such as diode or fiber lasers with good beam quality are attractive sources for applications including high energy lasers for use in directed energy systems industrial laser machining and numerous scientific applications. For scaling the output power of the fiber based laser systems e.g. to hundreds of kilowatts as is required for directed energy applications some method to provide optical amplification is required.

In fiber amplifiers the gain medium is a glass fiber that can be doped with rare earth ions such as erbium neodymium ytterbium praseodymium or thulium. The active dopant is pumped by an optical source such as a fiber coupled diode laser where the pump light propagates through the fiber core along with the signal being amplified.

Raman amplifiers unlike that described in the present invention are based on Raman gain resulting from stimulated Raman scattering SRS . In fiber Raman amplifiers where the nonlinear active medium is typically an optical fiber the maximum gain is obtained for a frequency offset between pump and signal depending on the composition of the fiber core. Fibers used for Raman amplifiers are not doped with rare earth ions. Any typical single mode fiber can practically be used. Compared to rare earth e.g. erbium doped fiber amplifiers Raman amplifiers have the following advantages and disadvantages. The SRS amplification process can be readily cascaded thus accessing a variety of wavelength regions if suitable pump sources are available. In addition the gain spectrum can be tailored by using different pump wavelengths simultaneously. Raman fiber amplifiers require a longer length of fiber but can have a lower noise figures. Lastly if the pump wavelength is polarized the Raman gain will be polarization dependent which is often an unwanted effect.

Beam combination can be utilized for scaling laser output power. This however generally requires single frequency operation for each of the stages. Wavelength beam combining WBC however can be an incoherent process where the brightness scales proportionally to the total number of laser input elements. The output beam of a WBC system is that of a single multi wavelength beam where the output power scales the power from each of the input laser elements.

WBC allows for brightness scaling of a diode laser array because all of the laser elements are spatially overlapped at the output coupler maintaining the output beam quality low Mvalue of a single element while scaling the output power by the number of elements in the array. WBC can be applied to any laser with a gain bandwidth including fiber lasers.

A primary limitation for scaling single frequency fiber lasers and amplifiers to higher power and higher energy is due to stimulated Brillouin scattering SBS . SBS results from nonlinear optical effects in the fiber. It primarily occurs when narrowband optical signals are amplified in a fiber amplifier. This leads to vibrations in the optical medium that cause scattering. Thus there is a need for an improved diode or fiber laser that can be used at high power and high energy levels.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a mode locked laser amplifier that utilizes a free space coupler to filter higher order modes and locks in a fundamental operating mode of the laser amplifier.

According to a first illustrative example a method of providing free space optical feedback in a mode locked laser system is provided. The method may include tapping a sample of an input laser signal at a first input tap. The remaining portion of the input laser signal is fed into a series of amplifier stages. A sample of an amplified laser signal is tapped from the output of a final amplifier stage of the series of amplifier stages. The input sample is combined with the input and the output samples in a free space coupler to generate a feedback laser signal. The feedback laser signal is added to the input laser signal at the first input tap.

Certain aspects may provide for suppressing and filtering higher order mode wavelengths of the output sample in the free space coupler to lock a fundamental mode of the mode locked laser system. The free space coupler can be tunable and as such the method includes selecting an operating wavelength of the free space coupler to determine an output wavelength of the amplified laser signal from the mode locked laser system. In some examples the free space coupler includes an integrated nonlinear ring resonator configured to lock in an output wavelength of the amplified laser signal from the mode locked laser system.

Additional aspects can provide for the free space coupler to include one or more of a free space optical diffraction grating or a free space optical reflector. Combining the feedback laser signal and the input laser signal can include using a filter driven four wave mixer. The free space coupler can include an integrated nonlinear resonator glass band configured to provide nonlinearity gain and tunability for the feedback laser signal.

Furthermore each stage of the series of amplifier stages can include a pump laser and a fiber amplifier. The input laser signal can be provided by a diode laser or a fiber ring amplifier. Additionally the method can include combining a plurality of free space couplers from different mode locked laser systems in a module array to provide amplified output signals from each of the mode locked laser systems. The amplified output signals from each of the mode locked laser systems can be combined using a wavelength beam combiner.

According to a second illustrative example a mode locked laser system is provided. The system includes a seed laser providing an input laser signal. An input tap collects a sample of the input laser signal. A plurality of amplifier stages are configured in series to receive the input laser signal at a first amplifier stage and provide an amplified laser signal from a final amplifier stage. An output tap collects a sample of the amplified laser signal. A free space coupler is in optical communication with the input tap and the output tap. The free space coupler can be configured to combine the input and the output samples to provide a feedback laser signal and to couple the feedback laser signal to the input laser signal at the input tap.

The free space coupler can be tunable such that wavelength of the feedback laser signal can be selected. According to certain aspects the free space coupler can include an integrated nonlinear ring resonator. Additionally or alternatively the free space coupler can include one or more of a free space optical diffraction grating or a free space optical reflector. According to certain aspects each of the plurality of amplifier stages can include a pump laser and a fiber ring amplifier.

According to third illustrative example a multi stage mode locked laser system is provided. The system includes a plurality of mode locked laser stages. Each stage can include a series of amplifier stages being fed an input laser signal into a first stage and providing an amplified laser signal out from a final stage an input tap collecting a sample from the input laser signal and an output tap collecting a sample of the amplified laser signals and a module array comprising a plurality of free space couplers each coupler associated with a mode locked laser stage and being configured to receive the input and the output samples from the associated stage the module array configured to combine the input and output samples from each free space coupler to provide a composite feedback laser signal.

According to certain aspects the composite feedback laser signal is combined with the input laser signal at the input tap from each stage to lock an operating mode wavelength of the multi stage mode locked laser system. The free space couplers can be tunable such that an operating mode wavelength of the multi stage mode locked laser system can be selected. The system may further include a wavelength beam combiner receiving the amplified laser signals from each stage to provide a combined laser output signal from the multi stage mode locked laser system.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art reading the instant specification drawings and appended claims.

Methods systems and devices are disclosed for free space optical feedback in a mode locked laser system. An input sample from a seed laser source can be combined with an output sample from the output of a series of amplifier stages. The input and output samples are combined in a free space coupler to form a feedback laser signal. The feedback laser signal can be injected back in to the input laser signal to be fed through the amplifier stages. Combining the input and output samples and injecting the feedback laser signal locks an operating mode e.g. wavelength of the laser system. Further the free space coupler can be tunable to a degree disclosed herein such that the operating mode of the laser system can be user selectable.

According to various embodiments multiple mode locked laser systems are utilized where their individual outputs are combined in a wavelength beam combiner to generate a composite laser output signal having an amplitude that can be a function of the number of laser systems. Input and output samples from each laser system can be combined in a module array that can include a free space coupler associated with each laser system to generate a feedback laser signal. Each of the feedback laser signals can be combined in the module array to form a composite feedback laser signal. The composite feedback laser signal can be provided to each laser system as the feedback laser signal. Accordingly the operating mode of the multi stage mode locked laser system can be locked to a fundamental operating mode. Further the operating mode of the module array can be tunable such that the operating mode of the multi stage mode locked laser system can be selected.

This description provides examples and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes can be made in the function and arrangement of elements.

Thus various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that the methods can be performed in an order different than that described and that various steps can be added omitted or combined. Also aspects and elements described with respect to certain embodiments can be combined in various other embodiments. It should also be appreciated that the following systems methods devices and software may individually or collectively be components of a larger system wherein other procedures may take precedence over or otherwise modify their application.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to shown therein is a block diagram of an exemplary mode locked system according to embodiments of the present disclosure. The system includes a seed laser an input tap an amplifier an output tap and a coupler .

The seed laser can be configured to generate or otherwise provide an input laser signal. The seed laser can be one or more of a diode laser and or a ring seed laser. The seed laser can be a ring seed laser including a Ytterbium Yb doped fiber ring. According to some embodiments the seed laser can be a seed amplifier that receives and or amplifies a laser signal being received from outside the system . As one example where multiple systems are utilized to provide a multi stage mode locked laser system a common laser signal can be fed to each of the seed lasers for each stage. According to some embodiments the seed laser can be configured to provide a broadband laser signal. The seed laser can be adjustable such that an operating mode e.g. wavelength of the input laser signal can be selected.

The input tap can be configured to receive the input laser signal from the seed laser . The input tap may also be configured to retain or tap at least a portion of the input laser signal and feed the remaining portion of the input laser signal as an input to the amplifier . The input tap can be configured to retain or tap one or more of multiple predetermined amounts of the input laser signal e.g. 5 10 15 etc. . According to certain embodiments the input tap can be configured to provide the tapped sample from the input laser signal to the coupler and receive a feedback laser signal from the coupler . Coupler is a free space optical coupler that receives the input sample from input tap and the output sample from output tap . The input sample and output sample have the same phase and are combined and provided to input tap as a coupler output signal. In input tap the coupler output signal is combined with the remaining portion of the input laser signal and provided to amplifier stage .

The amplifier may include one two three or some other predetermined number of amplifier stages. In one embodiment the amplifier may include no more than three individual amplifier stages. Each stage can be configured to amplify a laser signal. Accordingly a first amplifier stage can be in optical communication with the seed laser to receive the remaining portion i.e. the portion not tapped of the input laser signal. The first amplifier stage may amplify the remaining portion of the input laser signal and feed the amplified portion to a second amplifier stage and so on for each additional amplifier stage. As can be appreciated a final amplifier stage may output an amplified laser.

The amplifier is mode locked to the input laser signal. In this case the input laser signal from tap is a combination of the input seed laser signal and the tapped output laser signal. The modified laser signal is used as input signal for the amplifier.

According to some examples each of the amplifier stages may include a pump laser and a fiber amplifier. Each pump laser may output and feed an additional laser signal into the laser signal being amplified. The pump laser frequency or mode can match that of the input laser signal. Exemplary wavelengths can include but are not limited to 790 800 940 980 nm or some other wavelength. The pump laser may feed the pump laser signal into the laser signal being amplified in a bidirectional or unidirectional manner.

The output tap can be configured to receive the amplified laser signal from the final stage of the amplifier stages and retain or tap at least a portion of the amplified output laser signal and provide the output sample to the coupler . The output tap may tap a predetermined percentage of the output laser signal e.g. 1 5 10 and the like. The output tap can be further configured to provide the remaining portion i.e. the portion not tapped as an amplified output laser signal.

The coupler can be configured to receive and combine the input sample from the input tap and the output sample from the output tap . The combined samples can be fed back to the input tap as a feedback laser signal that is combined or otherwise coupled with the remaining portion of the input laser signal and fed into the amplifier stage . The coupler can be configured to act as a filter to suppress higher order modes or supermodes and lock the fundamental mode enhancing the gain and stability of the system . The combined signal represents a uniform signal that is less subject to variations than a single signal. Combination with the input tap results in greater influence from the seed laser frequency.

The coupler can be tunable according to some embodiments. As such the user may select an operating mode or wavelength of the system by tuning the coupler . According to some examples the coupler may include one or more of a nonlinear ring resonator a free space optical diffraction grating and or a free space optical reflector. According to other examples the coupler may include a nonlinear resonator glass band that is configured to provide nonlinearity gain and or tunability for the coupler .

In a typical laser system it can be appreciated that individual amplifier stages may not realize perfect linearity. Accordingly a laser signal as it passes through each amplifier stage may experience band shift power gain loss and the like resulting in variations in the final amplified output laser signal. Further environmental conditions may additionally impact the gain and or bandpass of each amplifier stage e.g. temperature variations. Accordingly the linewidth of the amplified laser signal may broaden as it passes through the amplifier stages due to such nonlinearity effects as well as other parameters of the amplifier stages e.g. physical parameters of the fiber. Ideally this linewidth should be controlled. It can be appreciated that utilization of the presently disclosed mode locked laser system including the free space optical coupler can address such instability issues. That is the presently disclosed free space feedback technique effectively locks the fundamental mode of the system and ensures stable high power output.

The laser system A includes a seed laser A an input tap A a plurality of amplifier stages three being shown by way of example an output tap A and a free space coupler A. Each amplifier stage can include a pump laser and an amplifier fiber .

Generally the seed laser A is configured to generate or otherwise provide an input laser signal to the input tap A. The input tap A can be configured to receive the input laser signal and tap at least a portion e.g. 10 of the input laser signal and provide the remaining portion to the first stage of amplifier stages . The first pump laser provides a laser input signal that can be combined or otherwise coupled with the remaining portion of the input laser signal. The fiber ring laser amplifier can be configured to amplify the laser signal. As can be appreciated each of the amplifier stages A provides amplification to the laser signal such that an amplified output laser signal can be provided to the output tap A.

The output tap A can be configured to tap at least a portion of the output laser signal and provide the output sample to the free space coupler A. The output tap A can be further configured to provide the remaining portion of the amplified output laser signal as an output signal of the laser system A.

The free space coupler A is configured to receive and combine the input sample and the output sample to generate a feedback laser signal. The feedback laser signal can be fed into the input tap A to be combined with the input laser signal the combined signals are provided to the first amplifier stage . As previously discussed a saturable absorber can be included in the laser system A. Saturable absorber allows accumulation of the coupler output A until a threshold is met. When the threshold is reached saturable absorber will allow transmission of the coupled light back into amplifier . The coupled light comes out at a resonance frequency between and A.

The mode locked laser system B may include a plurality of amplifier stages three being shown by way of example each amplifier stage including a pump laser and a fiber or seed amplifier A an intermediary tap an output tap B a free space optical coupler B a filter and a power management control .

Generally the amplifier stages including the pump laser and the amplifier A are configured to receive and amplify a laser signal at each stage. The output of the second amplifier stage can be fed into the intermediary tap where at least a portion of the laser signal can be tapped and provided to the free space optical coupler B. According to some examples an amplified output laser signal can be fed in to the output tap B where at least a portion of the amplified output laser signal is optionally tapped and fed into the optical coupler B. The output signal from the optical coupler B can be provided to a power management controller through the filter . Filter is a bandpass filter for reducing signals such as undesired modes outside a passband. As indicated by the arrows the feedback laser signal can be fed back to the power management control in a unidirectional manner. Generally the power management controller can be configured to receive the feedback laser signal and regulate e.g. amplify limit etc. the feedback laser signal and provide the feedback laser signal as an input to the first amplifier stage .

As discussed above typical amplifier stages are not necessarily linear in the gain and or bandpass functionality. As indicated by the exemplary waveforms shown in the variation including the intermediary tap provides an output from the final stage of the amplifier stages that has a regulated and controlled bandwidth.

The module array includes a plurality of free space couplers as indicated by reference numerals A to where n represents the number of free space couplers . The free space couplers implement components or aspects of the free space couplers of . Generally each free space coupler can be associated with a mode locked laser stage and can be configured to receive the input and output samples from the associated stage. The module array can be configured to combine the input and output samples from each free space coupler to provide a composite feedback laser signal . The composite feedback laser signal can be provided as a feedback laser signal from output tap to each of the mode locked laser stages . Accordingly the composite feedback laser signal locks an operating mode wavelength of the multistage mode locked laser system .

According to some examples the free space couplers can be tunable such that the operating mode wavelength of the multi stage mode locked laser system can be user selected. That is a user can select an operating mode wavelength by tuning one or more of the free space couplers to the desired wavelength. According to further examples the multi stage mode locked laser system includes a wavelength beam combiner that receives the amplified laser signals from each of the mode locked laser stages and combines the signals to form a combined laser output signal.

The combined laser output signal which benefits from the individual amplifier stages may obtain a power greater than the power obtainable from the individual stages. Further the number of mode locked laser stages can be dependent or otherwise selected based on the total output power desired for the multi stage mode locked laser system .

The multistage mode locked laser system may include a demultiplexer a plurality of amplifier stages three being shown by way of example having feedback from taps and a wavelength beam combiner . The input laser signal can be received from a seed laser an earlier amplifier stage and the like. The demultiplexer can be configured to receive an input laser signal having several separate frequencies. Demultiplexer can provide separate frequency ranges to each amplifier . Each amplifier can be tuned to a specific frequency range.

Each amplifier stage may include a feedback signal from tap in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure. That is each of the amplifier stages may implement aspects of the mode locked laser systems A and B of . In accordance with some examples each amplifier stage may include a single amplifier stage having a feedback signal that can be tapped at from an output of the amplifier stage and then combined with the input laser signal. The combined signal can be fed in to the input of the amplifier stage . The output from each of the amplifier stages can be fed in to the wavelength beam combiner to be combined to form a composite output laser signal. Accordingly the composite output laser signal may realize an amplitude greater than the amplitude of each of the output signals from the amplifier stages .

Other aspects may provide for the wavelength beam combiner to lock the operating mode of the multi stage multi mode laser system . The wavelength beam combiner can be configured to receive the output from each amplifier stage and combine the outputs to form the composite output laser signal having a mode locked frequency.

A method of providing free space optical feedback in a mode locked laser system is taught according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Aspects of the method can be performed by one or more of the mode locked laser systems A and B of and or the multi stage mode locked laser systems and of .

A sample of an input laser signal can be tapped at an input tap. The remaining portion of the input laser signal can be fed into a series of amplifier stages. According to certain examples there can be three amplifier stages wherein each stage includes a pump laser and a fiber ring laser amplifier. A sample of the amplified laser signal from the output of a final amplifier stage can be tapped at an output tap. The output tap may tap a predetermined portion of the amplified laser signal e.g. 1 5 10 etc. . The remaining portion of the amplified output laser signal can be provided as an output signal of the multi mode laser system. The input and output samples are combined in a free space coupler to generate a feedback laser signal. The feedback laser signal can be added to the input laser signal at the input tap. As can be appreciated the combined signal including the input laser signal and the feedback laser signal can be fed in to the first stage of the series of amplifier stages. The free space coupler may suppress higher order modes to provide a mode locked output laser signal.

Turning now to additional aspects of the present disclosure provided is a mode locked laser using a diode or fiber seed laser with tap and incorporating multiple Ytterbium Yb doped fiber based amplifiers with external free space feedback in a master oscillator power amplifier MOPA architecture. A portion e.g. 10 of the seed laser input signal is tapped while the remaining portion comprises the input to a series of fiber amplifiers. A portion of the amplified output signal from the fiber amplifiers is then retained and transmitted through free space coupled with the tapped signal using and optical diffraction grating or output coupler and then fed back into the tapped channel to the diode or fiber laser using an isolator to ensure unidirectional optical transmission. This free space feedback technique effectively locks the fundamental mode and ensures stable high power output.

A free space optical feedback coupler FSOBC can act as the filter to suppress the higher order mode or supermode and enhance the gain in the fundamental mode of the fiber laser ring laser multimode diode laser. A mode locked fiber ring laser multimode diode laser can include an integrated nonlinear resonator glass band integrated with the FSOBC that combines nonlinearity and gain and provides wavelength tunability. A tunable mode locked fiber ring laser can incorporate a filter driven four wave mixing FD FWM technique in some ways similar to disruptive four wave mixing schemes. With this technique the filter can be inserted into the fiber laser cavity to suppress unwanted modes allowing the generation of extremely stable output whereas dissipative FWM laser varies after the supermode from what is known as supermode instability.

A mode locked fiber ring laser multimode diode laser can be provided where the tunability of the seed laser is provided by user wavelength 1 25 selection of the laser output 2 5 kW range a portion of which comprises the feedback signal to the seed laser. These wavelengths are combined using a wavelength beam combining technique by way of the output coupler or optical grating to provide the full bandwidth 20 GHz without stimulated Brillouin scattering SBS and preserving high beam quality low M2 . The total laser output power can be enabled to be on the order of 100 kW.

Certain aspect provide for enough length of fiber in the ring fiber laser to allow sufficient gain for the fundamental modes and nonlinearly to sustain lasing but condensed enough so as to not allow closely spaced longitudinal modes to form within the bandpass of the filter. Such modes can interfere with each other creating low frequency noise that causes unstable operation. According to some examples expected total fiber length of the ring fiber laser can be on the order of a couple of meters.

A mode locked fiber ring laser multimode diode laser can provide linewidths ranging from a few gigahertz GHz to tens of GHz depending on the required output power as well as chosen physical parameters of the fiber.

According to a final aspect of the disclosure the mode locked laser with free space feedback can include a diode or ring fiber seed laser providing the input seed signal. Additional lasers emitting at 790 800 940 980 nm or other wavelength comprises the pump sources. The pump to the fiber amplifier can be uni or bi directional. The seed laser input can be tapped e.g. 1 10 and the remaining light 90 99 can be fed into a series of up to three for example Yb doped or Nd YAG or ER or Thulium fiber based amplifiers as identified number of sequential stages. The substantially amplified kW range output from the last stage or any intermediate stage of the fiber amplifiers can then be transmitted over free space or fiber coupled to the next high power amplifier stage and a portion of it coupled into the fiber from the tapped input. An isolator ensures unidirectional optical propagation and the output signal provides a free space optical feedback from the output coupler that comprises the gratings or reflectors into the taped fiber from the input seed diode or ring fiber laser. This effectively locks in the fundamental mode enhancing the stability of the system.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

