---

title: Providing a customized visual interface based on a dialed number
abstract: A system may be configured to receive an indication that a call has been placed (e.g., to a call center), and may provide a customized visual interface. The customized visual interface may include information that is potentially relevant to a user who has placed the call, and may be based on, for example, a user profile or history information, a purchase history of goods or services offered by an entity associated with the called party. The customized visual interface may allow the user to more quickly satisfy the purposes of his or her call than through traditional audio or touchtone menus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571623&OS=09571623&RS=09571623
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09571623
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
This application claims the benefit of and is a continuation in part of presently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 185 812 titled PROVIDING A VISUAL INTERFACE BASED ON A DIALED NUMBER filed on Feb. 20 2014 the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

Companies often use interactive voice response IVR systems to route telephone calls from customers to representatives that are relevant to customers needs. IVR systems may make use of automated messages played back to users to represent menus and menu options and may allow users to navigate the menus by providing vocal feedback and or by pressing keys on a number pad.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Companies often use call centers to handle calls from customers. Such calls may correspond to requests to purchase goods or services obtain customer service or the like. As smart phone become more and more common the proportion of calls to companies call centers from smart phones compared to landline phones increases. Calls from smart phones are typically handled the same way as calls from landline phones even though smart phones often have the capability for richer more efficient user interaction than landline phones. For example smart phones generally have the capability of visually displaying information.

Some implementations described herein allow for the presentation of visual interfaces in response to certain telephone calls such as a call directed to a call center of a company. These visual interfaces may allow for an enhanced user experience as a user may be able to more quickly achieve the user s goals e.g. obtain information purchase goods or services solve a problem etc. using a visual interface than would be possible through a purely voice based system. As described below in some implementations the visual interfaces may be customized based on user information in order to further enhance the user s experience. Further a company that offers the visual interface may save resources e.g. telephony resources human resources etc. that would be expended by a purely voice based system.

For example the VI application may request at arrow a visual interface from a VI server. The VI server may provide at arrow a visual interface and or a link to the visual interface that corresponds to the dialed number. The VI application may output at arrow a VI notification which may cause the user device to alert the user that a visual interface has been provided. For example the alert may include an audio alert requesting that the user interface direct his or her attention to a display screen of the user device. Additionally or alternatively the alert may include a haptic alert notifying the user to direct his or her attention to a display screen of the user device. As further shown the visual interface may be presented at via the display screen of the user device.

As indicated by the bold and shading in the figure assume that the user has selected the Purchase tickets for events near you option. illustrates an example visual interface that may be provided based on the selection of the Purchase tickets for events near you option. As shown the visual interface may provide options to purchase tickets for upcoming events at venues that are near the user s location as well as an option to speak to an agent. As shown assume that the user has selected the Speak to an agent option.

As shown in and based on the selection of this option the VI application may call a call center e.g. the call center initially dialed in and or a different call center . As described below this call may be placed based on the selections made by the user in the visual interface. For example a call to a telephone number may be placed directly to an agent who assists users in selecting an event for which to purchase tickets. This telephone number may be different than the telephone number initially dialed in . Additionally or alternatively the dialed call center may receive information regarding selections made by the user so that an agent at the call center may be able to provide assistance to the user without requiring the user to provide information regarding the user s desires that the user has already provided.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Alternatively or additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environments . Devices of environment may interconnect with each other and or other devices via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation and communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with one or more networks e.g. network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a device that combines a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a set top device STD a personal gaming system a wearable device and or another type of mobile computation and communication device. described below illustrates an example of user device according to some implementations.

VI server may include a server device or a collection of server devices that maintains information that correlates contact information e.g. telephone numbers to visual interfaces. For example as described below with respect to VI server may store information that correlates telephone numbers to links e.g. Uniform Resource Locators URLs associated with corresponding visual interfaces. VI server may receive an indication e.g. from a user device from a particular call center and or from another source that a particular call center has been dialed and may provide a URL for a corresponding visual interface. As described below the URL may correspond to content served by for example content provider . In some implementations VI server may deliver content e.g. visual interface content in lieu of providing a link to the content.

Content provider may include a server device or a collection of server devices that store and or provide content such as web content to user device . Content provider may for instance include a web server that provides stored content in response to requests for the content. The requests may for example include Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP requests. For instance these requests may be based on URLs provided to user device by VI server . Content provider may in some implementations output requested content using HTTP Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS HTML5 WebSocket WebRTC Data Channel and or another protocol or technique. The content provided by content provider may correspond to for example visual interfaces in accordance with implementations described herein. In some implementations VI server and content provider may be implemented together as a single device or a single collection of devices.

IVR server may include a server device or a collection of server devices that identifies options in an IVR menu that correspond to user input e.g. as received via a visual interface provided by content provider . For instance as described below with respect to IVR server may store information regarding options in an IVR menu such as an IVR menu associated with a call center. IVR server may use this information to identify IVR menu options that correspond to user input in order to effectively allow the user to select IVR menu options without necessarily having to listen to audio playback that indicates the IVR menu options. IVR server may also place calls according to the IVR menu options. These calls may be for example calls to telephone numbers associated with the menu options which may be different from a telephone number initially placed to a call center associated with the IVR menu. For instance while the initially placed telephone number may be a number associated with a customer service department of the company the call placed by IVR server based on the selection of a particular IVR menu options may be placed to a particular department of the customer service department of the company. In some implementations IVR server may provide content to user device . For example IVR server may provide content for user device to display while user device is on hold during a call.

Call center may include a set of devices that receive calls e.g. customer service calls from user device and or from IVR server . Call center may be attended to by one or more agents e.g. operators that receive the calls and assist users who call call center . Call center may include for example telephone devices e.g. landline telephone devices Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP devices etc. workstations e.g. desktop computers laptop computers etc. tablets wearable computers server devices and or other types of devices.

Network may include one or more networks via which user device VI server content provider IVR server and or call center may communicate. For example network may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes a Long Term Evolution LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may be or may include a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an eNodeB eNB via which user device and or another device may communicate with the EPC network. The EPC network may include one or more serving gateways SGWs mobility management entities MMEs and or packet data network PDN gateways PGWs and may enable user device to communicate with a PDN e.g. the Internet and or an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS core network. The IMS core network may manage authentication session initiation account information a user profile etc. associated with user device .

Network may additionally or alternatively include the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks. Network may include one or more wireless networks in addition to or in lieu of an LTE network. For example network may include a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 lx network a second generation 2G wireless network a third generation 3G wireless network a fourth generation 4G wireless network a fifth generation 5G wireless network a Wi Fi wireless network e.g. a network that operates according to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard and or another wireless network. In some implementations network may include and or be communicatively coupled to one or more other networks.

I O module may receive user input such as dialed numbers and or input received via a visual interface. The user input may correspond to for example the actuation of hard buttons e.g. physical buttons on device and or soft buttons e.g. buttons presented via a touchscreen of device . I O module may also present visual interfaces via a display screen of device and or may audibly present notifications and or other sounds associated with visual interfaces in accordance with some implementations.

VI application may determine whether a dialed number corresponds to a call center for which a visual interface is available. For example VI application may compare a dialed number to information stored by VI correlation information module described below and or may query VI server regarding the dialed number. For example VI correlation information module and or VI server may store contact information e.g. a list of telephone numbers that correspond to call centers with which a visual interface is associated.

VI application may intercept calls e.g. corresponding to numbers dialed via I O module that correspond to call centers with which a visual interface is stored. For example in lieu of allowing the call to go through to a particular call center e.g. in lieu of allowing a call to be placed via voice call module VI application may retrieve a visual interface and or a link to a visual interface associated with the call center from VI server and or content provider and may cause the visual interface to be presented via I O module .

In some implementations VI application may place calls via voice call module . The calls placed by VI application may correspond to user input received via a particular visual interface. For example VI application may store an event log e.g. as described below with respect to that corresponds to user input received via the user interface and may place a call e.g. to IVR server and or to call center according to the user input. For example VI application may output some or all of the event log to IVR server and or may make selections associated with an IVR menu based on the information stored in the event log.

In some implementations VI application may receive on hold content to present while device is presently engaged on a telephone call with a particular call center . For example VI application may receive the on hold content from IVR server based on event log information provided by VI application . As described below e.g. with respect to the on hold content may include content that may be relevant to the user s selections such as merchandise or information associated with the user s selections on hold music associated with the user s selections etc.

VI correlation information module may as described above store contact information that corresponds to visual interfaces in accordance with some implementations. For example as mentioned above VI correlation information module may store a list of telephone numbers that are associated with particular call centers . The information stored by VI correlation information module may be provided by administrators associated with content provider IVR server and or call centers . Additionally or alternatively the information stored by VI correlation information module may be provided by a telecommunications service provider associated with device . In some implementations device may not include VI correlation information module . In some such implementations VI application may as mentioned above query VI server regarding dialed numbers in order to determine whether the dialed numbers correspond to call centers for which visual interfaces are available.

Voice call module may as described above be used to place calls e.g. voice calls . Voice call module may include for example software and or hardware circuitry that allows device to place calls via a wireless telecommunications network e.g. a cellular network the Internet e.g. using VoIP the PSTN etc. Additionally or alternatively voice calls may be placed via the Internet using WebRTC. For instance voice call module may receive a set of dialed digits e.g. from I O module and or from VI application that correspond to a telephone number and may place a call based on the dialed digits.

For example a particular example telephone number 800 555 5555 may be associated with a visual interface located at the URL http www.foo.com VI.html. VI server may use this information to provide the visual interface to user device . For example VI server may receive an indication that the telephone number 800 555 5555 was dialed by a user of user device . As mentioned above VI application may have intercepted the call and requested visual interface information from VI server . VI server may provide the URL http www.foo.com VI.html to user device which may retrieve the visual interface located at the URL. In some implementations VI server may retrieve the visual interface and may provide the visual interface to user device . The information stored in data structure may be received from an administrator associated with VI server content provider call center and or from another source.

While shown as a table data structure may in practice take the form of another data structure such as a linked list an array tree and or any other suitable data structure. Further while specific types of information are shown in in practice data structure may include additional less different and or differently arranged information.

As shown the information stored by data structure may include information pertaining to the selection of options in a visual interface such as URL and Option name. The URL field may correspond to a URL of a selected option in a visual interface. For example the visual interface may include a HyperText Markup Language HTML page on which different options correspond to different URLs. Additionally or alternatively a particular option may be associated with another identifier such as a name option name . The IVR Menu state field may indicate a set of options in an IVR menu that correspond to a particular option associated with a visual interface.

For example as shown the URL http www.foo.com option1.html may correspond to a View events option in a visual interface. This option may correspond to a key press of 1 in a particular IVR menu. For instance an audible representation of the IVR menu may include an audible playback of the phrase Press 1 to listen to a list of events. As further shown the URL http www.foo.com option2.html event id 1 may correspond to an option named Justen Timberlake V Center Feb. 1. Assume that this option is selected after the View events option is selected. As shown the IVR menu state may include 1 Justen Timberlake. This menu state may simulate for instance a user pressing 1 on a keypad of a telephone and speaking the phrase Justen Timberlake. Based on the key press of 1 and the subsequent utterance of the phrase Justen Timberlake an option to purchase tickets to a particular Justen Timberlake concert may be presented via an IVR menu.

For instance a particular telephone number associated with purchasing tickets e.g. a telephone number associated with a particular call center may be called by IVR server . The dialed call may be connected to user device which may communicate with call center . Additionally or alternatively IVR server may provide IVR menu state information to user device which may dial a call center and may provide the IVR menu state information automatically e.g. without further user input thus bypassing IVR menus that the user would ordinarily be required to navigate manually.

While shown as a table data structure may in practice take the form of another data structure such as a linked list an array tree and or any other suitable data structure. Further while specific types of information are shown in in practice data structure may include additional less different and or differently arranged information. For example in some implementations data structure may store information regarding telephone numbers associated with certain options. The telephone numbers may be stored in addition to or in lieu of IVR menu state information. For instance one particular IVR menu state may correspond to one telephone number while a different IVR menu state may correspond to a different telephone number.

Continuing with the example shown in event log may also include an indication that a View Events options was selected that a Justen Timberlake V Center Feb. 1 option was selected and that a Speak to Agent option was subsequently selected. The information stored in the event log may correspond to information provided as part of a visual interface. For example a visual interface may include metadata that indicates names that are associated with particular options. For example this metadata may indicate that a particular selectable option in the visual interface is associated with the option name Justen Timberlake V Center Feb. 1. While event log shows option names in practice event log may additionally or alternatively include URLs and or other identifiers associated with selected options.

As mentioned above VI application may provide some or all of event log to IVR server in order for IVR server to navigate one or more IVR menus based on user input. For instance IVR server may identify an IVR menu associated with the telephone number 800 555 555. IVR server may further identify a telephone number associated with the subsequent selections made by the user i.e. View Events then Justen Timberlake V Center Feb. 1 and then Speak to an Agent . Additionally or alternatively IVR server may dial 800 555 5555 and enter IVR menu options associated with the events in event log e.g. 1 and then Justen Timberlake referring to the example information shown in . Additionally or alternatively IVR server may provide information to user device which may allow user device to automatically navigate one or more IVR menus in a manner consistent with the user s interactions with the visual interface. For example user device may dial 800 555 555 and enter the IVR menu options associated with the user input.

In some implementations IVR server may use event log information to provide on hold content to user device . For example IVR server may provide e.g. may push via SMS WebSocket WebRTC and or another technique visual interface content that includes options to purchase merchandise or services indicate interest in merchandise or services etc. IVR server may additionally or alternatively provide audio content such as music to be played while user device is on hold. The audio content may be related to the user input. For instance assuming that the user input relates to a musician the audio content may include music by the musician or by a related musician e.g. a musician of the same or a similar genre .

Process may include receiving a dialed call notification block . For instance as described above with respect to VI application user device may detect that a number was dialed e.g. by a user of user device . For example VI application may receive or intercept an indication from I O module regarding the dialed call.

Process may also include determining whether the dialed number is associated with a visual interface block . For example as described above with respect to VI application user device may determine whether the dialed number is associated with a visual interface. For instance VI application may locally store data e.g. a list of telephone numbers that are associated with a visual interface and or may query an external source e.g. VI server to determine whether the dialed number is associated with a visual interface.

If the dialed number is associated with a visual interface block YES then process may include blocking the call from being placed block . For instance VI application may prevent the call from being placed by voice call module .

Process may additionally include identifying a URL associated with a visual interface that corresponds to the dialed number block . For example as described above with respect to VI server and data structure user device e.g. VI application may determine a URL for a visual interface that corresponds to the dialed number by requesting the URL from VI server . In some implementations user device may store information associating the dialed number with the URL. In some such implementations user device may forgo contacting VI server to determine the URL.

Process may also include retrieving the visual interface block . For instance user device may use the URL to access content stored by content provider which includes the visual interface. In some implementations in lieu of obtaining at block a URL to the visual interface user device may receive the visual interface content from VI server . In some such implementations VI server may locally store the visual interface content and or may retrieve the visual interface content by using the associated URL.

In some implementations the visual interface content may include or may be associated with audio content. For instance the audio content may include music to be played while the visual interface is presented audio feedback for options included in the visual interface an audio and or haptic notification indicating that the user should direct his or her attention to the display screen and or other audio content. In some implementations the audio content may include an instruction to play audio content locally stored on user device . For instance the instruction may be an instruction to play a generic alert sound on user device and or an instruction to play a sound file that is associated with presenting visual interfaces.

When retrieving the visual interface user device may output information that may be used to personalize the visual interface. For example user device may include geo location information user profile information and or other information that may be used to personalize the visual interface. For instance content provider may use the personalization information to provide a visual interface that is more relevant to the user e.g. based on the user s location user preferences user activity etc. .

Process may further include presenting the retrieved visual interface block . For instance as described above with respect to I O module and VI application user device may display the visual interface on a display screen associated with user device . In some implementations when presenting the retrieved visual interface user device may also output a haptic and or an audio notification e.g. Please look at your screen as shown in the example of . As discussed above and as further described below with respect to the visual interface may be used to allow the user to more efficiently perform tasks or obtain information than would be possible with a purely voice based system.

If the dialed number is not associated with a visual interface block NO then process may include allowing the call to be placed block . For example voice call module may be allowed to place the call corresponding to the dialed number received at block .

Process may include receiving user input associated with a visual interface block . For instance as described above with respect to I O module and VI application user device may receive user input via a presented visual interface such as selections of options presented in the visual interface.

Process may also include storing state information associated with the user input block . For example as discussed above user device may store an event log e.g. example event log based on input received via the visual interface.

Process may additionally include receiving a request to place a voice call based on the visual interface block . For example a user may select an option in the visual interface that indicates that a call should be placed. For instance a user may select a Speak to an agent option or a similar option.

Process may further include placing a voice call based on the state information block . For example as described above with respect to VI application and voice call module user device may place a call to IVR server and or a particular call center based on event log . For instance user device may identify a telephone number associated with the user input provided via the visual interface. In order to identify the telephone number user device may provide event log information to IVR server which may determine a telephone number associated with the events indicated in event log . Additionally or alternatively user device may place a voice call to a telephone number and may automatically provide IVR selections to an IVR menu that is audibly presented when the telephone number is dialed.

In some implementations user device may provide call log to IVR server e.g. via SMS MMS WebSocket Transmission Control Protocol IP TCP IP or the like . User device may also place at a voice call to IVR server which may call a particular call center based on the provided call log . For instance as described above with respect to IVR server may determine a telephone number associated with an IVR menu state associated with call log and or may determine a set of IVR menu options. IVR server may bridge the call with user device so that user device may carry on the call with the callee called by IVR server .

Process may also include providing the state information to a callee of the voice call block . For example in some implementations user device may provide some or all of event log to call center e.g. via SMS MMS WebSocket TCP IP and or another technique . An operator associated with call center may view the call log and may be able to use the call log to better serve the user of user device . For instance the operator may view selections made by the user in the visual interface and may be able to provide information to the user based on these selections.

Process may include receiving a call request with IVR options block . For example IVR server may receive a request from user device to place a call based on a set of IVR options. For instance as discussed above the request may include event log based on which IVR server may identify a set of IVR options associated with the requested call. Additionally or alternatively the call request may itself indicate a set of IVR options. In some implementations the call request may be received via SMS MMS TCP IP and or another technique. In some implementations the call request may be received via a voice call placed to IVR server .

Process may also include placing a call to a call center based on the received call and the IVR options block . For example IVR server may place a voice call to a particular call center based on the IVR options identified in the call request and or based on IVR options determined based on the call request. As described above placing the voice call may include navigating one or more IVR menus based on the identified IVR menu options associated with event log .

In some implementations IVR server may bridge the call with user device from which the call request was received at block . In some implementations IVR server may forgo bridging the call if IVR server is placed on hold when the call is placed. In some such implementations IVR server may bridge the call with user device when IVR server determines that the call is no longer on hold. For instance IVR server may detect a voice on the call e.g. a voice of an operator associated with call center and or may otherwise receive an indication e.g. from call center that the call is no longer on hold. 

Process may additionally include presenting content based on the IVR options block . For example IVR server may present content associated with selections made by the user in a visual interface as indicated by event log . The content may include for example audio content e.g. music associated with the user s selections store content e.g. a visual representation of merchandise and or services for sale and or other information e.g. frequently asked questions or the like . This content may be presented by user device while the call is on hold. In some implementations user device may receive user interaction information associated with the content e.g. a user may select a particular item for sale as presented in the content . User device may notify IVR server regarding the user interaction and IVR server may modify event log to include information regarding the user interaction. IVR server may in some implementations provide the information regarding the user interaction to a callee of the call placed at in order to allow the callee to discuss the user interaction with the user.

For example as shown in user interface may be presented when a user dials a number associated with a particular call center . For example as shown in the example assume the user has dialed 800 555 5555. Further assume that this number is associated with a particular call center for which a visual interface is available.

User interface may correspond to a visual interface that is associated with the dialed number. As shown when user device presents user interface user device may audibly play a notification Please look at your screen . As shown in example user interface the visual interface may correspond to for example a service that sells tickets for events. As indicated by the highlighting and the shading assume that the user selects the option for Justen Timberlake V Center. 

Based on the selection user interface may be presented. As shown user interface may include a seating chart based on which the user may select a seat or seats. As also shown an option may be presented to speak to an agent. As indicated by the highlighting and the shading assume that the user selects the Speak to an agent option.

Based on the selection of the Speak to an agent option user interface may be displayed. User interface may correspond to on hold content provided by for example IVR server . As shown the on hold content may be based on the user s selections in the previous screens. For example a song by Justen Timberlake may play while the user is on hold and options to select merchandise and or services associated with the selected concert e.g. shirts VIP tickets parking passes CDs videos and limo to concert may be presented. As also shown an estimated hold time may also be displayed.

User interface may be presented once the call is no longer on hold. For example an agent associated with call center may push e.g. via SMS MMS WebSocket TCP IP and or another technique an instruction to user device to display user interface which may include a seating chart. The user may use the seating chart while speaking to the agent in order to select a seat.

User interface may be presented when the user has purchased a seat. For example the agent associated with call center may push an instruction to user device to display user interface . As shown user interface may include an option to rate the user s experience and an option to view order details.

Based on the selection of the Speak to an agent option user interface may be displayed. For example user device may notify IVR server that a call is requested and IVR server may respond with visual options that would be audibly presented via IVR if the call were placed. User device may display the IVR options visibly via user interface . As further shown assume that the user selects a particular option Cancel an order. Based on the selection of this option a call may be placed to a telephone number associated with canceling orders. This may allow the user to bypass the need for audibly interacting with an IVR menu thus saving the user s time.

As shown user interface may include an option to purchase upgraded seats. In some implementations the upgraded seats may be sold at a discount as compared to an initial price of the seats. In some implementations upon purchase of the upgraded seats the user s original seats may be made available for purchase.

In some implementations upon detection of an automobile related event e.g. a potential car accident a low tire warning a fuel warning etc. user device may automatically place a call to a particular call center associated with assisting with automobile related events. In some situations a user may manually call such a particular call center . As shown when dialing a number VI application may determine that the dialed number is related to a call center that is associated with automobile assistance. VI application may obtain a visual interface e.g. user interface . When obtaining the visual interface VI application may provide automobile diagnostic information and the visual interface may be personalized based on the automobile diagnostic information. For instance as shown in user interface may include a message indicating that a tire is flat and may present an option to contact roadside assistance. This may be useful in situations where different callees may be associated with different services e.g. one callee associated with roadside assistance another callee associated with reporting emergencies etc. .

The CVI server may also look up information regarding the user in a user information repository. For instance the CVI server may query the user information repository based on a telephone number of the user device in order to determine the user information. The user information may include for example the user s name present location preferences transaction history and or other user information. The CVI server may use the user information and or the cell center service information to generate a customized visual interface and as shown in may provide the customized visual interface to the user device. In some implementations the CVI server may provide the customized visual interface or a link to the customized visual interface via SMS email WebSocket WebRTC or another form of communication. In some implementations the CVI server may provide the customized visual interface via a messaging application that intercepts the call in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to . In other implementations the CVI server may provide the customized visual interface via a messaging application that receives an application directed message and then redirects the call.

In some implementations when receiving the call the call center may play an audible message such as Please check your SMS messages shortly for a link to a customized interface and may hang up and or place the call on hold. The CVI server may send e.g. within the next few seconds an SMS message to the user device including a link to the customized visual interface. Alternatively the user device may receive an application directed message that causes a web browser on the user device to open a customized web page. The user of the user device may use the customized visual interface to obtain or provide information in a manner that may be more expedient than a traditional audio IVR menu thus enhancing the user s experience. Since the visual interface is customized based on information that is specific to the user the user s experience may further be streamlined thus saving time and providing more pertinent options for the user.

Customized visual interface may also include an option to speak to or co browse with an agent in case customized visual interface did not provide the user with satisfactory information or functionality. The option to speak to the agent may cause the user device to redial the telephone number corresponding to the call center in situations where the call was terminated and or to a different telephone number e.g. a telephone number that bypasses the CVI functionality . When the speak to an agent option is selected the user s interactions with the customized visual interface may be provided to the call center so that the call center can address the user s needs without requiring the user to redundantly provide information that the user has already provided. For example if the user had already selected get directions the call center may be informed of the previous selection and may not offer to provide directions or may offer to provide directions after providing other options to the user . The option to co browse with the agent may cause a co browsing session to be initiated such that the agent can view the user s web browser session and point e.g. point to various seating locations at a concert venue . When the co browse with an agent option is selected the user s interactions with the customized visual interface may be provided to the call center so that the call center can address the user s needs without requiring the user to redundantly provide information that the user has already provided.

While illustrate particular examples of customized visual interfaces numerous other types of information may be included in customized visual interfaces in accordance with some implementations. For instance customized visual interfaces may in some implementations include advertising and or other content that is based on a user s past browsing purchase or location history.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice environment may include additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Alternatively or additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environments . Devices of environment may interconnect with each other and or other devices via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

CVI server may include a computing device or a collection of computing devices that generates and provides customized visual interfaces to user device . For example CVI server may receive an indication e.g. from user device from a particular call center and or from another source that a particular call center has been dialed and may generate a corresponding customized visual interface. As described below the customized visual interface may be customized for a particular user associated with user device based on user information e.g. which may be provided by user information repository and or from another source . In some implementations the customized visual interfaces generated by CVI server may be based on a template associated with the particular call center to which the call was placed. As described below a particular template may specify types of user information to include in a customized visual interface and or a layout of the customized visual interface. In some implementations CVI server may provide a URL to the generated customized content.

Interaction server may include a computing device or a collection of computing devices that receive information regarding user interactions with customized visual interfaces. Additionally or alternatively interaction server may be implemented via hardware circuitry and or processing logic partially or entirely on another device such as user device . Interaction server may for example receive information indicating options selected in the customized visual interface amount of time spent viewing a particular portion of the customized visual interface e.g. time spent viewing a particular page of a group of pages associated with the customized visual interface and or other information regarding user interactions with the customized visual interface. Interaction server may present the interaction information to call center and or to another source. For instance if a user selects a speak to an agent option in a customized visual interface call center may be dialed by user device and interaction server may provide interaction information to call center in order to assist call center in handling the call. The interactions recorded by interaction server may be additionally or alternatively used in a machine learning context. For example the information presented via a customized visual interface may be selected based on what the user is likely to be interested in. By analyzing the user s interactions e.g. which options the user selected whether the user chose to speak to an agent after a customized visual interface was presented etc. more useful information may be included in a customized visual interface.

User information repository may include a computing device or a collection of computing and or storage devices that store information regarding users and or one or more user devices . An example of the types of information which may be stored by user information repository is described below with respect to . The information stored by user information repository may be received from user device from users of user devices from a network administrator one or more network devices and or from another source. In some implementations some portions of user information repository may be provided for different call centers . For example multiple call centers may each maintain or may each provide specific information associated with a particular call center . For instance a first call center may be associated with an entity that sells tickets to events and may maintain or provide information regarding tickets purchased by particular users and a second call center may be associated with an online shopping web site and may maintain or provide information regarding past orders made via the web site wishlists of items sold via the web site and or other types of shopping related information.

User information repository may provide user information to CVI server via an interface such as an application programming interface API . The API may be used to manage authentication and or security in order to allow CVI server to access user information associated with a particular call center for a call to the particular call center without accessing user information associated with another call center .

Call center may include a set of devices that receive calls e.g. customer service calls from user device . Call center may be attended to by one or more agents e.g. operators that receive the calls and assist users who call call center . Call center may include for example telephone devices e.g. landline telephone devices VoIP devices etc. workstations e.g. desktop computers laptop computers etc. server devices and or other types of devices. While the term call center is used herein call center may in some instances refer to a single telephony or computing device.

As shown data structure may include a telephone number a user profile and or history entity specific user data user device capability information and notification preferences. The telephone number field may indicate a telephone number e.g. a mobile directory number MDN and or another identifier e.g. a device identifier a media access control MAC address an IMEI value an IMSI value etc. associated with user device .

The user profile history field may include information such as a user s name home address email address present location location history e.g. one or more locations that the user or a user device associated with the user has visited in the past browsing activity e.g. web sites that the user or user device has accessed in the past shopping activity e.g. items purchased by the user such as items purchased via user device and or other types of profile or history information associated with the user or user device .

The entity specific user data field may include information related to a particular entity e.g. a business that is associated with a particular call center . As mentioned above the entity specific user data may include information relating to goods or services offered by the entity purchased by the user. Additionally or alternatively entity specific user data may relate to goods or services which the user has not purchased but has expressed interest in e.g. a wishlist and or goods or services that the entity has programmatically or algorithmically determined that the user may be interested in. As another example entity specific user data may relate to profile information that is more detailed and or different from the information stored in the user profile history field. For instance the entity specific user data may include a user name associated with the user for a web site or other service associated with the entity.

The user device capability information field may include information that indicates device capabilities of user device such as a screen size screen resolution whether the device has a microphone whether the device has a camera whether the device has multiple cameras e.g. front facing camera rear facing camera whether the device can receive certain types of messages e.g. SMS messages emails proprietary messages e.g. messages directed toward a proprietary messaging application etc. an uplink or downlink throughout capacity associated with user device and or other types of capability information. In some implementations the device capability information field may indicate whether user device is capable of handling application directed SMS messages e.g. SMS messages that are directed to and handled by an application other than a traditional messaging application . The user device capability information may be used when providing a customized visual interface to user device .

The notification preferences field may include user preferences as to how a particular user desires to be notified that customized visual interfaces are available. For example a user may have specified that he or she would like to receive an SMS message with a URL to a customized visual interface when the customized visual interface is available. As another example a user may have specified that he or she would not like to receive visual interfaces when calling a particular or any call center . As yet another example a user may have specified that he or she would like the ability to collaboratively browse with a call center agent. As yet another example a user may have specified that he or she would like a message to be played during a telephone call placed to call center indicating that a customized visual interface is available.

Process may include receiving at a call notification and or customized visual interface request. For example CVI server may receive a notification from a particular call center and or a network device e.g. a network device that is involved in a call setup procedure a voice call application server etc. that a call has been placed to the particular call center . The notification may include for example an identification of a caller e.g. an MDN or another identifier of user device from which the call was received and an identification of the particular call center e.g. a telephone number or another identifier associated with call center . In some implementations the notification and or request may include information such as an IP address a URL a name etc. identifying a particular user information repository which may store entity specific user information for call center . In some implementations the notification and or request may include a template or may specify an existing template e.g. may include a name URL or other identifier of the existing template . The template may be stored by user information repository or another device in some implementations.

Process may also include identifying at information associated with the caller and or the caller s device. For example CVI server may identify user information e.g. user information stored by user information repository associated with user device or a user of user device . For instance CVI server may query user information repository for user information based on the MDN or other identifier of user device . Additionally in some implementations user information repository may query user information repository for entity specific user information based on the telephone number or other identifier of call center . In some implementations user information repository may request user information from multiple repositories e.g. one user information repository that does not include entity specific information and another user information repository that includes entity specific information . In some implementations CVI server may obtain user device information e.g. screen size screen resolution microphone availability camera availability etc. from a device profile database or directly from user device e.g. using media queries .

Process may further include generating at customized content based on the identified caller information. For instance as mentioned above user information repository may identify a template associated with call center . For instance call center may have selected a template based on user information such as goods or services purchased by the user and may request that the particular template be used.

In other implementations user information repository may select a template based on the user information including entity specific user information. For example if a user has purchased tickets to an event that is scheduled to begin on the same day that the user has placed the call call center may select a template associated with providing directions to the event ticket pickup information sharing e.g. with the call center via social media etc. the user s location etc. As another example if the event is scheduled to begin on a day that is later than the day that the user has placed the call call center may select a template associated with upgrading the tickets reselling the tickets etc. As yet another example if a user has not purchased tickets to an event call center may select a template that includes offers to purchase tickets in which the user may be interested e.g. for artists that have been selected based on the user s history or profile events that are near the user s present or home location etc. . In some implementations the customized visual interface may include additional dynamic information provided by call center e.g. information that is not stored by user information repository such as the information regarding upcoming events.

In some implementations a template may be selected based on other information such as a user s present location device capabilities etc. For example if a user is located relatively far away e.g. at least a threshold distance from a scheduled event such as in another state at a time that is relatively close to the event e.g. within a threshold amount of time of the event a different template may be selected than if the user were relatively close to the event. For example instead of selecting a template with information regarding where to pick up tickets a template with ticket resale information may be selected. As another example if user device has a relatively low resolution a different template e.g. a low resolution template may be selected than if user device had a relatively high resolution.

Template may be a template that may be used for a user who has purchased tickets to an event that is occurring on the same day that the user has called call center . Template may also be a template representation of customized visual interface shown in . Some dynamic components may refer to information received from user information repository while other dynamic components may refer to other information e.g. event or other information provided by call center or another source . For example the component may refer to information provided by user information repository while the components e.g. and may refer to information provided by another source.

As further shown in template components may include functionality other than presenting text. For example some components may refer to widgets which may refer to user interface functionality or objects. One example widget shown in is a share location widget which may include an option to share a user s location. Widgets may allow for third party or complex black box functionality to be effortlessly included or plugged in to the templates e.g. current traffic conditions based on the user s location current weather based on the user s location etc. .

Template is an example template that may be selected when a user has purchased tickets for an event that begins on a later date than a date on which the user calls call center . As mentioned above template may include options such as options to resell the tickets upgrade the tickets reserve a limousine etc. The options may include hyperlinks to web pages or other types of interfaces that may be relevant to the options. The linked web pages may be dynamic in that the selection of the option may cause user and or interaction information to be passed to the web page.

Template is an example template that may be selected when a user has not purchased tickets to an event. As shown information regarding different events e.g. images and names for and may be included. The information may be provided as links to pages or other interfaces that allow the user to purchase tickets to a particular event.

Returning to process may additionally include outputting at a link to the generated customized content. For example CVI server may output a URL or other type of link that refers to the customized visual interface that was generated based on the selected template. In some implementations CVI server may provide the link to user device based on notification preferences associated with user device e.g. may send the link via SMS via an application directed SMS message via email etc. .

As shown process may include generating and outputting at a link to customized content. For example CVI server may output a link which may be accessed by user device . The link may be a placeholder link in that CVI server may wait for the link to be accessed before generating the customized content. This may save resources e.g. processing and or storage resources in situations where a user does not access customized content and or in situations where a user waits a relatively long time before accessing customized content.

Process may also include receiving at a request for customized content based on the link. For example CVI server may receive a notification from a web server to which the link points that the link has been accessed.

Process may additionally include generating at the customized content based on receiving the request. For example CVI server may generate a customized visual interface based on a selected template after receiving the notification that the link has been accessed. In some implementations CVI server may output the customized content to a web server to which the link points and the customized content may be viewed by a user of user device .

Process may further include determining at that the customized content has been accessed and is no longer needed. For example CVI server may receive interaction information e.g. from interaction server and may determine based on user interactions with the customized content that the content is no longer needed. For instance CVI server may determine that the content is no longer needed if the content has not been interacted with for at least a threshold amount of time e.g. one minute five minutes etc. . As another example CVI server may determine that the content is no longer needed when the user has completed a particular task e.g. purchased a ticket selected an option to obtain directions selected an option to navigate away from the customized visual interface etc. .

Process may also include flushing at the generated content to free up resources. For example once the customized content is no longer needed CVI server may output an instruction e.g. to a web server that hosts the customized content to de allocate resources e.g. storage resources dedicated to the customized content. For example the de allocated resources may be returned to a resource pool and may be able to be used for other purposes e.g. to host other content . In this manner the customized visual interfaces may be provided and managed in an efficient manner without unnecessarily wasting resources on unused customized visual interfaces.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a microphone a camera a gesture sensor a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker haptics one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio a near field communications NFC radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. Communication interface may utilize a microphone and speaker for audio based communications and or display and camera for visual communications. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Additionally while example data structures are illustrated in as including certain types of information in practice these data structures may store additional fewer different or differently arranged types of information than shown in these figures. Furthermore while these data structures are shown as tables in practice these data structures may take the form of any other type of data structure such as an array a linked list a hash table a tree and or any other type of data structure.

Furthermore while some examples are described separately concepts from some example implementations can be combined with concepts from other example implementations even if not explicitly described herein. For instance while is described in the context of a call being placed to a call center and a visual interface request being provided by the call center in some implementations similar concepts as those described in may apply. For example a user device may include a CVI application which may be similar in some aspects to the above described VI application which may intercept the call to the call center. For instance the CVI application may notify the CVI server that a call has been attempted to be placed to the call center and the CVI server may generate a customized visual interface based on the notification and may provide the customized visual interface to the user device e.g. by sending a message such as an application directed SMS message to the CVI application . The user device may then present the customized visual interface via the CVI application.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

