---

title: Gun stock retainer, inclined seat pad, and knee mountable gun rest for a shooting garment
abstract: A gun stock retainer, a gun rest operable to mount on a human knee, and an inclined seat pad may be used separately or included in a single garment (e.g., a hunting vest). The gun stock retainer includes an opening in a base material and a retaining strap including a nonslip material operable to engage the stock and pull the stock into the base material and the opening. The gun rest includes a knee cup shaped to conform to a front of a wearer's knee, a knee strap to hold the knee cup to the wearer's knee, and a cradle attached to the knee cup and sized to receive a fore-end of a gun. The inclined seat pad is generally wedge-shaped and is attached or releasably attached to a back portion of fabric of the garment via a hinge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09175804&OS=09175804&RS=09175804
owner: 
number: 09175804
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140228
---
This application is a divisional application and incorporates by reference in its entirety to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 934 943 entitled GUN STOCK RETAINER INCLINED SEAT PAD AND KNEE MOUNTABLE GUN REST FOR A SHOOTING GARMENT filed Jul. 3 2013 which claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 761 204 entitled GUN STOCK RETAINER INCLINED SEAT PAD AND KNEE MOUNTABLE GUN REST FOR A SHOOTING GARMENT filed Feb. 7 2013 which claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 595 775 entitled GUN STOCK RETAINER INCLINED SEAT PAD AND KNEE MOUNTABLE GUN REST FOR A SHOOTING GARMENT filed Feb. 7 2012.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

One problem shooters e.g. hunters sharpshooters police and military personnel face is keeping a weapon at the ready e.g. shouldered for long periods of time. For example a hunter may need to keep a rifle or shotgun shouldered for a long period of time while waiting for a target e.g. a game animal . Similarly sharpshooters may need to keep a rifle shouldered for long period of time while observing a potential target. A shooter may need to eat drink operate a game call communicate via an electronic device reposition some piece of equipment or reposition himself. All of these activities require the shooter to take his hands off of the gun which traditionally means putting the gun down. That is the shooter must lay the gun on the ground or lay the gun in his lap to complete the activity. Thus shooters are frequently not ready to shoot when necessary. For example a hunter will often have his gun in his lap or laying beside him while operating a game call when a game animal comes into view. The hunter must then scramble for his gun which will typically cause the game animal to flush i.e. run or fly so as to avoid the hunter resulting in the hunter missing the game animal or completely missing the opportunity to shoot at the game animal.

Further comfort is a major factor in how long a shooter can maintain a weapon at the ready. For ground hunters e.g. turkey hunters the shooter i.e. hunter will typically place decoys in a clearing and sit in cover e.g. in the woods while calling game. Typically the shooter will sit at the base of a tree and lean against the tree. However because the base of the tree is at an incline the shooter will tend to slide down the tree which puts the shooter in an uncomfortable position. Thus the shooter must frequently reposition himself which often results in noises and motions that scare game animals and may prevent the shooter from being able to successfully harvest his prey.

This invention relates generally to garments or equipment for hunting and or shooting. More particularly the invention relates to a gun stock retainer a gun rest operable to mount on a human knee and an inclined seat pad that may be used separately or included in a single garment.

In one aspect a gun stock retainer operable to hold a stock of the gun includes a base material and a retaining strap. The base material has an opening operable to receive a butt of the stock of the gun. The retaining strap includes a nonslip material operable to contact the stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock. The retaining strap is operable to engage the top of the stock of the gun and pull the butt of the stock into the opening when the gun stock retainer is holding stock.

In another aspect a gun rest operable to mount on a human knee and hold a fore end of the gun includes a knee cup and knee strap and a cradle. The knee cup is generally shaped to conform to a front of the human knee. The knee cup has a concave face operable to face the human knee and a convex face operable to face out from the human knee. The knee strap is operable to attach to opposing edges of the knee cup pass behind the human knee and hold the knee cup to the front of the human knee. The cradle is sized to receive the fore end of the gun and is affixed to the convex face of the knee cup near a center of the convex face of the knee cup.

In another aspect a garment operable to be worn by a user includes a back portion of fabric a seat pad and a hinge. The back portion of fabric is near or below the waist of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the garment in an upright standing position. The seat pad is generally wedge shaped. The hinges between the back portion of fabric and the seat pad and is operable to attach a first edge of the seat pad to the back portion of fabric. The seat pad is thinner at the first edge than at a second edge of the seat pad opposite the first edge.

In another aspect a garment operable to be worn by a wearer includes a gun stock retainer a gun rest attachment point a gun rest a back portion of fabric a seat pad and a hinge. The gun stock retainer is operable to hold a stock of the gun and includes a base material and a retaining strap. The base material has an opening operable to receive a butt of the stock of the gun. The retaining strap includes a nonslip material operable to contact the stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock. The retaining strap is operable to engage the top of the stock of the gun and pull the butt of the stock into the opening when the gun stock retainer is holding stock. The gun rest is operable to mount on a human knee and hold a fore end of the gun and includes a knee cup and knee strap and a cradle. The knee cup is generally shaped to conform to a front of the human knee. The knee cup has a concave face operable to face the human knee and a convex face operable to face out from the human knee. The knee strap is operable to attach to opposing edges of the knee cup pass behind the human knee and hold the knee cup to the front of the human knee. The cradle is sized to receive the fore end of the gun and is affixed to the convex face of the knee cup near a center of the convex face of the knee cup. The gun rest is releasably attached to the gun rest attachment point of the garment via an elastic cord. The back portion of fabric is near or below the waist of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the garment in an upright standing position. The seat pad is generally wedge shaped. The hinges between the back portion of fabric and the seat pad and is operable to attach a first edge of the seat pad to the back portion of fabric. The seat pad is thinner at the first edge than at a second edge of the seat pad opposite the first edge.

While the making and using of various embodiments of the present invention are discussed in detail below it should be appreciated that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not delimit the scope of the invention.

To facilitate the understanding of the embodiments described herein a number of terms are defined below. The terms defined herein have meanings as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the areas relevant to the present invention. Terms such as a an and the are not intended to refer to only a singular entity but rather include the general class of which a specific example may be used for illustration. The terminology herein is used to describe specific embodiments of the invention but their usage does not delimit the invention except as set forth in the claims.

Referring to a garment includes a gun stock retainer a gun rest and a wedge shaped seat pad . The gun stock retainer is in a slightly reclined position and would be in an upright position if a wearer of the garment were sitting up straight. The gun stock retainer is shown holding the stock of a gun . The gun rest is shown mounted on a human knee i.e. of a wearer of the garment and holding a fore end of the gun . The seat pad is shown with a hinge not visible in an open position such that the seat pad extends under the buttocks of a wearer of the garment who is in a seated position. The fore end of the gun may also be referred to as a forearm a forend or a fore stock and the stock may also be referred to as a shoulder stock a butt stock or a butt. The gun is thus fully held and supported by the garment and the wearer of the garment is able to use both hands for activities such as operating a game call drinking eating or communicating via electronic communication device while maintaining the gun on target in a ready to fire position. Further the gun may thus be aimed and fired with one hand which is beneficial for shooters having only one hand and muzzle control is improved enhancing safety which may be particularly beneficial for shooters such as youth hunters.

Referring to the garment is on the wearer who is in a standing position. An elastic cord releasably attaches the gun rest to an attachment of the garment . In one embodiment the elastic cord is attached to the attachment point via a hook. The elastic cord keeps the gun rest with the garment even when the wearer has removed the gun rest from his knee and not stowed it in the garment . An elastic portion spans a lower edge of the knee cup of the gun rest helps to hold the gun rest in place on the wearer s knee while enabling the wearer to stand and walk freely.

Referring to and the gun stock retainer includes a base material and a retaining strap . The base material includes an opening operable to receive a butt of the stock of the gun . The retaining strap includes a nonslip material operable to contact the stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock . As shown in the nonslip material contacts a top of the stock and pulls the butt into the opening when the gun stock retainer is holding stock . In one embodiment the base material is a fabric which may or may not be padded and the base material is part of a shoulder area of the garment . The shoulder area of the garment is the area of the garment that is at a front of a shoulder of the wearer of the garment i.e. where the wearer would typically place the butt of the gun to fire the gun .

In one embodiment the retaining strap is formed by integrating an elastic fabric in the polyurethane rubber see for example and the nonslip material is the polyurethane rubber that substantially covers the retaining strap . This may be accomplished by calendaring or by coating the elastic fabric with the polyurethane rubber. In one embodiment the elastic fabric is a nylon spandex blend.

In one embodiment the nonslip material is a nonslip pad and the retaining strap includes an elastic fabric that is not covered by polyurethane rubber see for example . In this embodiment the nonslip pad is near a center of the elastic fabric such that the nonslip pad contacts stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock . In one embodiment the nonslip pad contacts the top stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock . It is also contemplated that the nonslip pad may comprise to nonslip pads on either side of the center of the retaining strap such that the nonslip pads contact sides of the stock instead of the immediate top of the stock .

In one embodiment the nonslip material is a nonslip pad having a pair of opposing holes see for example . Each hole may include a metal eyelet to prevent tearing of the nonslip pad . Similarly base material holes in the base material or extensions therefrom may include eyelets to prevent tearing of the base material or extension . In the embodiment of the retaining strap comprises a pair of elastic cord sections . Each elastic cord section passes through one of the nonslip pad holes and a corresponding base material hole or hole in an extension therefrom and is knotted at each end. This retains the non slip pad in an elastic arrangement with the base material . Thus if a backpack or vest is made with opening base material holes at the sides of the opening as shown in and the corresponding fastener to the fastener the gun stock retainer may be made ambidextrous. That is unknotting one end of each elastic cord section and releasing the fastener from the corresponding fastener frees the nonslip pad elastic cord sections installation strap and fastener from the one strap allowing the user to complete the gun stock retainer on the other strap of the backpack or vest.

Generally the gun stock retainer is in an upright position when the base material is substantially vertical. When the gun stock retainer is in an upright position a first dimension of the opening is substantially vertical and a second dimension of the opening is substantially horizontal. Thus the second dimension is substantially co planar with and perpendicular to the first dimension . In one embodiment the first dimension is greater than the second dimension . The first dimension is less than a vertical dimension of the butt . Generally the vertical dimension of the butt is a difference in elevation of a bottom of the butt and a top of the butt when the gun is upright and in a substantially horizontal firing position e.g. as shown in . In one embodiment the first dimension of the opening is between one quarter and three quarters of the corresponding vertical dimension of the butt e.g. see . In one embodiment the second dimension is equal to or greater than a corresponding horizontal dimension of the butt . In one embodiment a portion of an outline of the opening excluding a top page of the opening substantially matches a corresponding portion of an outline of the butt .

The first end of the retaining strap and a second end of the retaining strap opposite the first end are attached to base material . The first end of the retaining strap and the second end are separated by a distance at least as great as a width e.g. the second dimension of the opening . When the first end of the retaining strap and the second end of the retaining strap are separated by a distance greater than the width of the opening the base material is pulled up onto the sides of the stock and wraps around the butt end of the stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock . This increases the stability of the gun in the gun stock retainer . Experimentation has shown that attaching the first and second ends of the retaining strap to the base material at about one half an inch from edges of the opening results in optimal stability in when the gun stock retainer is in a shoulder strap configuration with minimal deformation to the base material such that if the gun stock retainer were part of a jacket or coat the gun stock retainer would not unnecessarily pull on the jacket or coat making the coat uncomfortable for the wearer. In one embodiment the base material includes a trim ring having a width of approximately one half inch and the first and second ends of the retaining strap are attached to the trim ring at opposing outside edges of the trim ring . In one embodiment the trim piece includes a rubber insert. In one embodiment the first and second ends of the retaining strap are cut at an angle e.g. 17 with respect to a length dimension of the retaining strap to enhance the contact and hold of the nonslip material on the stock . Experimentation has shown that an angle of approximately 15 20 e.g. 17 between the base material and the retaining strap is optimal for retaining the butt in the opening and on the base material above the opening . This results in an angle between the top of the of the stock and the retaining strap of about 45 and a corresponding angle of about 45 between the retaining strap and vertical due to the retaining strap cupping a portion of the base material around the end of the stock when the gun stock retainer is holding the stock .

In one embodiment the first dimension of the opening is between half and three fourths of the corresponding vertical dimension of the butt of the stock of the gun and the first end and the second end of the retaining strap are attached to the base material at or below the top edge of the opening when the base material is upright. In another embodiment the first dimension to of the opening is between one fourth and half of the corresponding vertical dimension of the butt and the first and second ends of the retaining strap are attached to the base material at or above the top edge of the opening when the base material is upright.

The opening has a lower edge when the base material is in an upright position. In one embodiment the retaining strap is attached to the base material above the lower edge of the opening at a distance from the bottom edge of the opening greater than one fourth of the vertical dimension of the butt of the stock of the gun and less than the vertical dimension of the butt .

Referring to in one embodiment the gun stock retainer also includes an installation strap . The installation strap has a first in attached to the retaining strap near an edge of the retaining strap approximately halfway between the first end and the second end of the retaining strap . In one embodiment the installation strap is inelastic. The installation strap is operable to stretch the retaining strap up out and onto the top of the stock when the installation strap is pulled away from the base material and the stock is placed in the opening . The installation strap also helps with removing stock from the gun stock retainer by giving the wearer a grip with which to pull the retaining strap . The installation strap includes a fastener near a second end of the installation strap opposite the first end of the installation strap . The fastener releasably attaches the second end of the installation strap a corresponding fastener on the base material above the opening . The corresponding fastener on the base material is above the opening when the base material is upright. In one embodiment the fastener corresponding fastener are a snap button. A snap button may be advantageous for hunting equipment as opposed to a hook and loop fastener system due to reduced noise when releasing an attachment made by a snap button and the reduced possibility of inadvertently attaching the fastener to the corresponding fastener .

In one embodiment the base material is backed by a portion of a hook and loop fastener system and a corresponding portion of the hook and loop fastener system is attached to the garment such that the gun stock retainer is releasably attached to the garment . This may be useful if for example the garment is a jacket or coat having a blaze orange color used for both deer hunting and upland bird hunting or a tactical vest jacket or coat for a sharpshooter or military personnel. It allows the wearer of the garment to remove the gun stock retainer from the garment when upland bird hunting or entering a building and reattach the gun stock retainer when deer hunting or positioning for a sharpshooting assignment. It is also contemplated that the base material may be affixed to a garment or shoulder strap of the garment via one or more pin fasteners e.g. name tag pin fasteners one or more cinch straps one or more hooks one or more clips or any combination thereof.

Although the gun stock retainer is shown in use with the gun rest operable to mount on a human knee it is contemplated that the gun stock retainer may be used with other gun rests such as bipods shooting sticks railings logs tree branches or any other rest capable of supporting the fore end and or barrel of the gun . Additionally although the gun stock retainer may be used with a gun stock modified to improve its compatibility with the gun stock retainer the gun stock retainer works with original equipment unmodified standard stocks for most shotguns rifles muzzle loaders and breech loaders.

It is contemplated that the gun stock retainer may be formed into for example a backpack a vest a shoulder strap a jacket a coat a shoulder patch or a shirt.

Referring to the gun rest operable to mount on the human knee of the wearer and hold the fore end includes a knee cup a knee strap and a cradle . The knee cup is generally shaped to conform to a front of the human knee such that the makeup has a concave face operable to face the human knee and a second face operable to face out from the human knee. The second face is generally opposite the concave face with respect to position but not necessarily in shape. In one embodiment the second face of the knee cup includes a 20 ramp such that the cradle aligns with the fore end of the gun when the stock is in the gun stock retainer . The knee strap is operable to attach to opposing edges e.g. the sides of the knee cup pass behind the human knee and hold the knee cup to the front of the human knee. The cradle is sized to receive the fore end and is affixed to the second face of the knee cup near a center of the second face of the knee cup .

In one embodiment the gun rest also includes a knee strap fastener and an adjuster . The knee strap fastener releasably attaches the knee strap to the knee cup . The adjuster is operable to adjust an operating length of the knee strap . The operating length of the knee strap is the length of the knee strap passing behind the wearer s knee such that shortening the operating length via the adjuster tightens the knee cup on the front of the wearer s knee and lengthening the operating length via the adjuster loosens the knee on the front of the wearer s knee. In one embodiment the knee strap is elastic which decreases or eliminates need for the adjuster .

In one embodiment the gun rest also includes a gun strap operable to hold the fore end of the gun in the cradle . The gun strap includes a gun strap fastener and affixed to the gun strap near a first end of the gun strap . The gun strap fastener is operable to releasably attach the first end of the gun strap to the cradle . A second end of the gun strap opposite the first end of the gun strap is attached or releasably attached to a second side of the cradle opposite the first side of the cradle . In one embodiment the knee cup includes polyurethane rubber coated nylon. The nylon may be coated with the polyurethane rubber via calendaring.

In one embodiment the cradle is affixed to the knee cup via a swivel joint such that the cradle can rotate relative to the knee cup . Experimentation has shown that the swivel joint is preferable to a fixed joint because the swivel joint allows the wearer an improved range of motion and improves interoperability of the gun rest between right handed and left handed shooters. The knee cup includes a fitting having a threaded portion and the fitting is made of metal e.g. aluminum . The cradle is attached to the knee cup via a screw recessed into a valley of the cradle . The screw engages the threaded portion of the fitting of the knee cup . The cradle is interchangeable with a second cradle sized to fit another fore end of another gun e.g. the cradle is sized for a 12 gauge fore end while the second cradle is sized for a 0.410 fore end . The cradle is interchanged with the second cradle by uninstalling the screw swapping the cradle and the second cradle and installing the screw through the recess and the valley of the second cradle into the fitting of the knee cup .

Referring to the garment includes a back portion of fabric a seat pad and a hinge . The back portion of fabric is near or below a waste of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the garment in an upright standing position. The seat pad is generally wedge shaped. The hinge is between the back portion of fabric and the seat pad . The hinge is operable to attach a first edge of the seat pad to the back portion of fabric . The seat pad is thinner at the first edge than at a second edge opposite the first edge .

In one embodiment the hinge includes a zipper such that the first edge of the seat pad is releasably attached to the back portion of fabric . In another embodiment the hinge includes a hook and loop fastener such that the first edge of the seat pad is releasably attached to the back portion of fabric of the garment . In another embodiment the back portion of fabric is integral with a fabric of the seat pad such that the hinge is a fold in the fabric making up the back portion of fabric and the fabric of the seat pad .

In one embodiment the garment also includes a first fastener portion not visible attached to the back portion of fabric and a second fastener portion not visible attached to a first face of the seat pad near the second edge of the seat pad . The first fastener portion engages the second fastener portion when the hinge is in a closed position and the first fastener portion and the second fastener portion cooperates to releasably attach the first face of the seat pad to the back portion of fabric . In one embodiment the first fastener portion and the second fastener portion are magnetically attracted. In one embodiment the first face of the seat pad has a nonskid surface. The nonskid surface may be for example abrasive or textured rubber. The incline or wedge of the seat pad and or the nonskid surface cooperate to prevent the wearer of the garment from sliding down the base of an inclined tree against which the wearer is leaning.

In one embodiment the garment includes at least one buckle e.g. a quick release buckle attached to a third edge of the first face of the seat pad . The third edge is adjacent to the first edge and the second edge . The buckle is attached to the third edge near the second edge then the first edge . The buckle releasably attaches the seat pad to the back portion of fabric to maintain the hinge and a closed position. When the wearer of the garment is in a standing position and the first face of the seat pad is in contact with the back portion of fabric the second edge is above the first edge of the seat pad . When the hinge is in an open position the seat pad hangs from the back portion of fabric such that the wearer may sit on the seat pad .

It is contemplated that the garment may be for example a backpack a vest a shoulder strap a jacket a coat a shoulder patch or a shirt.

As used herein releasably attached means attached via a fastener designed to easily unattached and reattach e.g. by hand without a tool being necessary . Exemplary fasteners include a hook and ring a hook and loop fastener system e.g. Velcro a button snap a button and buttonhole a quick release buckle and a buckle.

This description and appended claims include the words below above top upper lower when and upright to provide an orientation of embodiments of the invention to allow for proper description of example embodiments. It is contemplated that embodiments of the invention may be in orientations other than upright without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Further it is contemplated that above means having an elevation greater than and below means having an elevation less than such that one part need not be directly over or directly under another part to be within the scope of above or below as used herein. A

Although embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

It will be understood that the particular embodiments described herein are shown by way of illustration and not as limitations of the invention. The principal features of this invention may be employed in various embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize numerous equivalents to the specific procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered to be within the scope of this invention and are covered by the claims.

All of the compositions and or methods disclosed and claimed herein may be made and or executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of the embodiments included herein it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Thus although there have been described particular embodiments of the present invention of a new and useful Gun Stock Retainer Inclined Seat Pad and Knee Mountable Gun Rest for a Shooting Garment it is not intended that such references be construed as limitations upon the scope of this invention except as set forth in the following claims.

