---

title: Fiber snubbing clamp using magnetic gripping action
abstract: A device, assembly and method for clamping single fibers that utilizes snubbing surfaces simultaneously with magnetic gripping action are described. The device can be fabricated at miniature sizes with very low mass and volume, which are desirable requirements for testing of small fibers in highly sensitive force-transducing load frames. Advantageously, the combined use of snubbing surfaces and magnetic gripping greatly reduces the probability of slippage or fiber failure at the grip during testing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389131&OS=09389131&RS=09389131
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09389131
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140328
---
This application is a divisional of U. S. patent application Ser. No. 13 415 121 filed Mar. 8 2012 titled Fiber Snubbing Clamp Using Magnetic Gripping Action and claims benefit of U.S. Provisional application No. 61 450 309 titled Single Fiber Snubbing Clamp Using Magnetic Gripping Action filed on Mar. 8 2011 which are both hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The ability to test the tensile strength and other mechanical properties of single fibers is of great importance for researchers engineers and manufacturers. Single fiber testing can be used to isolate trends and modes of failure for materials such as for fundamental materials investigations or product line quality control testing. During development of new fiber materials the new fibers are often available in very small quantities due to complex processing or exotic materials. In these cases multi filament yarn level testing is not practical. Instead it is desired to generate mechanical properties of individual filaments.

Developments in capacitive load cells electromagnetic load cells and stepper motor technology have led to the commercialization of compact load frames with extremely sensitive force for example nanoNewton nN sensitivity and displacement for example nanometer nm sensitivity measurement capabilities. These miniature load frames are ideally suited for testing single fibers.

Standard testing procedures for single fiberscall for directly gripping single fibers in clamping action grips or gluing the fibers onto cardboard tabs that are then gripped in clamping action grips. The first technique direct clamping concentrates stresses at the grip point and often leads to failure at the fiber grips. Grip failure is undesirable during fiber characterization and these results are generally not accurate and thus are not reportable. The second technique bonding fibers onto cardboard tabs relies on strong bonding between the fiber and a dollop of adhesive. For fibers that are difficult to bond to such as aramid polyethylene or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene it is common to observe fiber slippage from the adhesive. These results are also not accurate and thus are not reportable and generally prevent loading the fiber to failure. In addition the time and complication associated with utilizing curable adhesives adds considerable inconvenience especially considering that many test repetitions are required to establish statistically significant data. Accordingly there is a need for a method a device and or an assembly for clamping or otherwise securing a fiber in a tensile testing device.

For testing yarns it is common to use capstan grips also called roller grips or contour horn grips also called half capstan grips . In these designs from the primary loading gage section of the yarn the yarn is passed over a series of snubbing surfaces which gradually reduce the tensile load on the yarn due to frictional interactions of the yarn with the snubbing surfaces. The snubbing surfaces are curved gently to induce normal forces on the yarn without creating stress concentrations that can fail the yarn. After passing over these snubbing surfaces the yarn is gripped mechanically typically using mechanical or pneumatic clamping action. Because the tensile loading on the yarn has been gradually reduced the total stress on the yarn at the grip point is significantly less likely to lead to failure at the grip.

The present invention improves upon previous single fiber techniques by providing a single fiber clamping device that can reliably grip single fibers and decrease slippage and or failure at the grips. In addition no adhesive is required so that gripping is fast and uncomplicated. Furthermore the device uses magnetic clamping action to grip the fibers so that the total mass and volume of the clamping device are minimized. Maintaining low clamping device mass is desirable for operation in sensitive load frames since the total load limits including clamp weight are typically very low for these miniature load frames for example 1 N maximum force capacity . For these applications traditional clamping approaches such as mechanical action or pneumatics are undesirable because they are either impractical or cumbersome to implement.

The present invention is a single fiber clamping device that utilizes capstan style snubbing surfaces to gradually reduce fiber tension as it approaches the clamping point similar to the capstan style grips used for testing of yarns. Magnetic forces are used to provide the clamping action on the fiber after the snubbing surfaces. The geometry of the device can be optimized for compactness low mass and manufacturability.

In addition a method for determining a mechanical property of a fiber or a yarn or other group of fibers is provided.

An assembly of the present invention includes two devices for example an upper specimen holder and a lower specimen holder where each device includes a base . A feature of base is a toroidally contoured hole . Hole may be machined into base component . Desirably base is composed of or otherwise includes a magnetizable alloy for example an alloy or metal that will attract a magnet such as free machining steel. The base may include only a surface portion that includes or is composed of a magnetizable alloy so that at least a portion of a surface of base can be used to attract a magnet. A fore edge of the base device is desirably machined to a rounded semi cylindrical contour. To grip a fiber a fiber from the gage direction of a testing system is passed over a portion of first face of base through the hole . The fiber is then passed over a second face of base and routed back towards the gage direction. A smooth low mass clamping magnet such as a polished rare earth permanent magnet is then placed on top of the fiber . In certain embodiments the magnet can be an electromagnet or a non metallic ceramic magnet. The magnetic attraction of the clamping magnet to a surface of the base component provides clamping action. A threaded rod not illustrated is mounted to the aft edge of the base component via a threaded hole . The threaded rod can then be mated to the load frame using standard mechanical hardware.

Further embodiments of this design assembly and or method can be easily envisioned including but not limited to embodiments utilizing longer or more complex routing paths.

It may be desirable to polish the snubbing surfaces of the base component as well as the faces of the magnet to eliminate sharp edges or other stress concentrations that may prematurely lead to fiber failure. Rare earth magnets are preferred for the clamping magnet due to their extremely high magnetic forces relative to other magnet types.

It is envisioned that the present gripping device including clamping magnet will weigh less than 1 kg and be used to test fibers of diameter 1 mm and smaller. More preferably the device will weigh less than 100 g and will be used to test fibers of diameter 100 micrometers and smaller. In certain desirable embodiments devices of the present invention can be used to hold and test fibers having an average diameter of less than 50 micrometers or more preferably having an average diameter less than 40 micrometers or more preferably having an average diameter less than 30 micrometers or even more preferably having an average diameter of less than 25 micrometers.

Having described our invention many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

