---

title: Method for ensuring security and privacy in a wireless cognitive network
abstract: In some embodiments, authentication, confidentiality, and privacy are enhanced for a wireless network of cognitive radios by encryption of network management and control messages as well as data traffic, thereby protecting information pertaining to node identification, node location, node-sensed incumbent transmissions, CRN frequency channel selections, and such like. During initial network registration, a temporary ID can be issued to a node, and then replaced once encrypted communication has been established. This prevents association of initial, clear-text messages with later encrypted transmissions. Elliptic curve cryptography can be used for mutual authentication between subscribers and the base station. ECC-based implicit digital certificates can be embedded in co-existence beacons used by CRN nodes to coordinate use of frequency channels, thereby preventing denial of service attacks due to transmitting of falsified beacons. Similar certificates can be embedded within identity beacons used to protect certain incumbents from interference by the CRN.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445263&OS=09445263&RS=09445263
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09445263
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141030
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 959 332 filed Dec. 3 2010 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 267 737 filed Dec. 8 2009 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 312 267 filed Mar. 10 2010 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention was made under US Army Cooperative Research and Development Agreement Army Control Number 0401 A C843 awarded by the United States Army and the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to wireless networks and more particularly to methods for ensuring security are privacy in wireless networks that employ cognitive radio technology.

Due to the heavy use of wireless communications in both civilian and military environments there is often a shortage of available communication bandwidth. Traditionally frequency bands have been assigned on a regional or global basis according to specific types of usage such as commercial AM and FM radio commercial VHF and UHF television citizens band radio licensed amateur radio cellular telephony satellite communication ship to shore communication aviation communication military communication and such like. Within many of these bands such as commercial television and radio bands specific frequencies or channels are assigned to individual entities such as channels assigned to specific radio and television stations. Typically such assignments provide for exclusive use of the assigned channel over a designated geographic region.

This traditional approach of exclusively reserving specific communication channels for specific entities generally leads to inefficient use of bandwidth since at any given time and in any given location it is unlikely that all of the assigned channels will be in use. For example a commercial television station may not have any broadcast coverage in certain portions of its assigned geographic region and or may broadcast only at certain times leaving the assigned channel empty and unused at other locations and or at other times.

One approach to taking advantage of this unused bandwidth is to use Cognitive Radio or CR technology. A cognitive radio is a radio that is capable of sensing its local bandwidth environment so as to determine at any given time what frequencies are unused so called white spaces or underused so called grey spaces . Cognitive radios can then opportunistically use these white and or grey spaces to communicate with each other without requiring a fixed dedicated frequency assignment. It is fundamental to this approach that the cognitive radios function as secondary users of whatever channels they select. Therefore they must effectively monitor the channels at all times for primary or incumbent usage and avoid any interference with the incumbents.

In particular with reference to cognitive radios can be used to form a so called Wireless Regional Area Network or WRAN. In a WRAN a base station CR communicates with a plurality of subscriber CR s or subscribers . In some implementations where the subscribers are not mobile they are referred to as Customer Promise Equipment or CPE CR radios. The base station determines which channels are available at any given time and communicates with the subscribers to direct the usage thereof by the WRAN. In the simplest case the base station monitors and analyzes the bandwidth environment selects an available channel and broadcasts information on that channel to the subscriber radios . The base station may also consult a database of known incumbents and their assigned channels regions and patterns of usage. When a subscriber radio wishes to join the WRAN it surveys the local bandwidth environment until the base station is located and then identifies itself to the base station and joins the network. Once the WRAN is established the base station coordinates switching of the WRAN to other frequencies from time to time if and as needed. In the incumbent is illustrated as not presently broadcasting thereby leaving its assigned channel free for use by the WRAN. Usage of the available WRAN frequencies is coordinated in some implementations by an exchange of messages between the nodes the messages being referred to herein as coexistence beacons. The co existence beacons can include for example requests to use a channel and acknowledgements thereof as are used for example in an RTS CTS protocol.

With reference to the network architecture of a WRAN is a so called star configuration whereby communication within the network is always between the base station and a subscriber .

While methods are known for ensuring the privacy and security of conventional wireless networks CR based networks are potentially exposed to many more vulnerabilities because of all the additional functionality that they include as compared for example to networks based on traditional software defined radios SDR s . This is because each additional functionality is a potential soft spot for an attacker to gain access to the system or against which to stage a denial of service DoS attack. As a result besides providing typical traditional forms of security a WRAN must provide enhanced security mechanisms for these cognitive functions so as to provide protection not only to nodes of the WRAN which are secondary users of the spectrum but also to the primary or incumbent users.

For example in cognitive radio systems confidentiality and privacy mechanisms must protect not only the data but also subscriber information spectrum occupancy information which may be of interest e.g. to competitors and the spectrum management information used b the base station to configure the subscribers and to direct the operation of the WRAN. In particular when WRAN communication is used in military operations it may be highly important to the safety of friendly combatants that management messages wherein nodes report their identities and then positions are securely protected.

In addition the nodes of a WRAN must share whatever frequency channels are available. This can be facilitated by transmitting of co existence beacons between the nodes for example beacons transmitted by a node that informs other nodes of an intent to transmit over a specified channel. However this approach can provide opportunities for a malicious entity to attack the WRAN by transmitting false beacons that confuse the legitimate nodes and deny them access to the WRAN frequency channel s .

Also the use of co existence beacons can provide an opportunity for malicious entities to attack the WRAN by transmitting false beacons that would tend to confuse legitimate nodes and deny them access to the WRAN frequency channels.

What is needed therefore is a method for ensuring reliability security and privacy of communications in a wireless cognitive radio network.

A method is claimed for ensuring authentication authorization identification data integrity confidentiality and privacy for a wireless network of cognitive radios CRN herein also referred to as a wireless regional area network or WRAN. 

The invention includes encryption of network management and control messages as well as data traffic so as to protect subscriber identification information spectrum sensing information subscriber location geo location information and such like.

At least during initial registration with the network it is sometimes unavoidable that a limited amount of data must be sent In the clear. For this reason the present invention assigns a temporary node ID to each new subscriber and subsequently replaces it with a securely transmitted permanent node ID once encrypted communication has been established.

So as to better protect the base station and the subscribers from spoofing and other attacks strong Elliptic Curve Cryptography ECC is used for mutual authentication of each subscriber to the base station and of the base station to each subscriber.

Also ECC based implicit digital certificates embedded in identity beacons are used to protect the co existence of certain incumbents with the WRAN.

In addition embodiments of the present invention include ECC based digital certificates and or signatures embedded in coexistence beacons so that the beacons can be used to coordinate and facilitate sharing of available WRAN channels without providing an opportunity for malicious entities to attack the WRAN by transmitting false and confusing beacons that would tend to prevent legitimate nodes from accessing the WRAN frequency channels.

When a subscriber node first attempts to register with a base station in the network the subscriber node and the base station mutually identify each other using both RSA ECC based public private key identification and verification of digital certificates. Once authentication has been established the base station authorizes entry of the subscriber into the network. In addition to authentication in various embodiments authorization of the subscriber node also requires that the subscriber support the method of the present invention that the subscriber is not a source of spurious signals which could disrupt the WRAN and or that the subscriber is not located within a protected region that is known to be assigned to a valid incumbent transmitting on the frequency channel also being used by the WRAN. In other embodiments the invention also enables entry into the network of subscribers that do not fully support the method of the present invention.

Once the subscriber is authorized the base station transmits an encrypted permanent node ID to the subscriber which replaces the temporary ID. This prevents a third party from associating any initial clear traffic intercepted during the registration process with later traffic transmitted to or received by the node. The base station also transmits an encrypted authorization key or AK to the subscriber. The AK is used to generate both a key encryption key and a traffic encryption key or TEK. Thereafter a dual key strategy is employed whereby both network management and control information and data traffic are encrypted using the TEK which has a finite lifetime while the KEK is used to periodically exchange new TEK s between the base station and the subscriber. In various embodiments periodic re authentication and or re authorization of the subscriber is also required whereby the AK is cancelled if the re authorization fails.

One general aspect of the present invention is a method for ensuring security and privacy of communications over a wireless network of cognitive radios CRN . The method includes encrypting network management and control messages transmitted over the CRN. In some embodiments elliptic curve cryptography ECC is applied in encrypting the network management and control messages. In various embodiments the network management and control messages include at least one of node identifying information node location information and information regarding signals detected by a node.

In other embodiments the network management and control messages transmitted over the CRN are encrypted using a management message protection key MMP the MMP being used only for that purpose.

Another general aspect of the present invention is a method for ensuring security and privacy of communications over a wireless network of cognitive radios CRN the CRN including a managing base station in communication with at least one subscriber. The method includes using elliptic curve cryptography ECC to authenticate a subscriber to the base station. Some embodiments further include using ECC to authenticate the base station to at least one subscriber.

Another general aspect of the present invention is a method for ensuring security and privacy of communications over a wireless network of cognitive radios CRN the CRN including a managing base station in communication with at least one candidate node. The method includes receiving from the candidate node a request to join the CRN transmitting to the candidate node a temporary node identifier establishing encrypted communication with the candidate node authorizing the candidate node to join the CRN and conveying to the candidate node by encrypted transmission a permanent node identifier in replacement of the temporary node identifier.

In some embodiments the base station is able to withdraw authorization from an authorized candidate node so as to remove the candidate node from the CRN. In some of these embodiments the method includes withdrawing of authorization by the managing base station from the candidate node due to transmitting of spurious noise by the candidate node and or determining by the base station that the subscriber is within a protected zone surrounding a known incumbent.

In various of these embodiments establishing encrypted communication with the candidate node and authorizing the candidate node to join the CRN includes receiving a registration request from the candidate node the registration request including a subscriber digital certificate and a subscriber public key determining an authenticity of the subscriber digital certificate if the subscriber certificate is authentic applying authorization criteria to the candidate node if the authorization criteria are met authorizing participation of the candidate node in the CRN using the subscriber public key encrypting an authorization key and transmitting the encrypted authorization key to the candidate node the candidate node being able to derive therefrom a key encryption key KEK and a management message protection key MMP an MMP expiration criterion being associated with the MMP so as to cause the MMP to expire when the MMP expiration criterion is met generating a transmission encryption key TEK encrypting the TEK using the KEK and transmitting the encrypted TEK to the candidate node a TEK expiration criterion being associated with the TEK so as to cause the TEK to expire when the TEK expiration criterion is met using the TEK encrypting all data communication with the candidate node over the CRN using the MMP encrypting all management and control communication with the candidate node over the CRN using the KEK encrypting a replacement TEK and transmitting the encrypted replacement TEK to the candidate node before the TEK expiration criterion is met using the KEK encrypting a replacement MMP and transmitting the encrypted replacement MMP to the candidate node before the MMP expiration criterion is met and so long as the candidate node continues to participate in the CRN repeating the encrypting of a replacement TEK and of a replacement MMP and the transmitting the encrypted replacement TEK and the encrypted replacement MMP to the candidate node before the TEK and MMP expiration criteria are met.

In some of these embodiments receiving a registration request includes receiving information specifying ID information location information configuration information and capability information of the candidate node. In other of these embodiments elliptic curve cryptography ECC is applied in encrypting an authorization key the TEK all data communication with the candidate node over the CRN all management and control communication with the candidate node over the CRN a replacement TEK and or a replacement MMP.

In embodiments the MMP is determined from a pre Primary Authorization Key pre PAK included in an authorization reply sent by the base station in response to an authorization request by a subscriber. In these embodiments the authorization request includes a request random number generated by the subscriber a subscriber identifying certificate a list of cryptographic suites that are supported by the subscriber and an ECC based signature that incorporates information derived from all elements of the authorization request and the authorization acknowledgement includes the request random number an acknowledgement random number the encrypted pre PAK a base station identifying certificate and an ECC based signature that incorporates information derived from all elements of the authorization acknowledgement.

In still other of these embodiments receiving a registration request includes receiving information specifying a location of the candidate node. In some of these embodiments the authorization criteria include a requirement that the candidate node is not located within a protected region assigned to a valid incumbent using a frequency that is in use by the CRN.

In yet other of these embodiments the application of authorization criteria includes collaborative sensing by nodes in the CRN of spurious signals and the authorization criteria include a requirement that the candidate node is not a source of spurious signals that might interfere with the CRN.

And in yet other of these embodiments receiving a registration request includes receiving information specifying compliance of the candidate node with at least one of specified security protocols and specified regulatory protocols. In some of these embodiments the authorized criteria include a requirement that the candidate node comply with at least one of the specified security protocols and the specified regulatory protocols.

In still other of these embodiments the expiration criterion is an elapsing of a time interval. And in yet other of these embodiments the expiration criterion is the encryption of a specified number of data packets using the TEK. Still other of these embodiments further include after a specified re authorization criterion is met requiring re authorization of the candidate node and only permitting continued participation by the candidate node in the CRN if the re authorization is successful.

Another general aspect of the present invention is a method for sharing access to a frequency channel among nodes of at least one wireless network of cognitive radios CRN while resisting malicious interference in each CRN including a base station node in communication with at least one subscriber node the method comprising transmitting of co existence beacons between the nodes of the CRN s the coexistence beacons including information that facilitates sharing of the frequency channel by the nodes each of the co existence beacons being protected by an FCC based certificate and signature.

Various embodiments further include communicating by the base station node with at least one external database server at least one digital certificate being used by the base station to verify an identity of the external database server.

The present invention is a method for ensuring authentication authorization identification data integrity confidentiality and privacy for a wireless network of cognitive radios herein also referred to as a CRN a wireless regional area network or a WRAN. In addition to the requirements applicable to any wireless network a cognitive radio network must also distinguish between valid incumbents which have primary rights to a frequency channel and the nodes comprising the WRAN which have only a secondary right to opportunistically use the frequency channel. In addition a CRN is required to protect not only the data being transmitted but also network management and control messages including messages containing information pertaining to the identities and or the locations of the subscribers as well as the spectrum occupancy information which may be of interest e.g. to competitors and the spectrum management information used by the base station to configure and control the subscribers to identify and validate incumbents and to avoid conflicts with incumbents.

If co existence beacons are used to coordinate usage of the WRAN frequency channels the CRN must also protect the network against malicious transmission of false beacons that would tend to confuse the legitimate nodes and deny them access to the WRAN frequency channels. Embodiments of the present invention include authentication of coexistence beacons based on ECC based implicit certificates so as to allow subscribers and base stations s to verify the authenticity of the beacons.

In some embodiments ECC based implicit certificates are used to calculate a signature over the co existence beacon. The signature is then added to the beacon as an information element IE . The receiving station subscriber or BS uses the certificate information to verify the signature.

This functionality provides assurance that the communicating parties sender and receiver are who they purport to be. In cognitive networks there is the added problem of distinguishing between the valid incumbents of the spectrum and the secondary users. The present invention provides features that 

Authorization is the ability of the system to control access to the spectrum network. Different network entities will have different privilege levels. For example a BS may be authorized to forcibly remove an interfering subscriber from the network. In cognitive radio networks the ability of the BS spectrum manager to sense the available spectrum make decisions regarding its use and enforce those decisions at the subscriber level is an important authorization feature. In various embodiments the BS can de authorize a subscriber from its network at any time. The decision on de authorizing s made through various policy sets.

Identification works hand in hand with authentication to ensure that the incumbents and MI RAN nodes can be positively identified. To that end the present invention provides mechanisms that will 

Integrity is the assurance that the information transmitted over the medium arrives at its destination unaltered. Integrity provides write protection for the content. The present invention provides features that 

In some embodiments protection against replay type attacks is provided by tagging each of the packets with a random packet number PN as its header. This ensures that a repeated packet can be detected and appropriate action can be taken.

In embodiments of the present invention confidentiality features work closely with integrity features to ensure read as well as write protection for all transmitted network management and control information as well as data traffic through the application of encryption and ciphers. A wireless network is more sensitive to transmission errors than a wired network due to propagation effects such as shadowing fading in un intentional interference. This sensitivity can wreak havoc with complex ciphers and cause numerous re transmissions resulting in wasted bandwidth. For cognitive radio networks this sensitivity is especially troublesome because of the opportunistic nature of spectrum use by the WRAN nodes and the fact that use of the spectrum is not guaranteed. Accordingly the present invention provides 

In various embodiments the SCM provides for both mutual authentication BS authenticates subscribers and subscribers authenticate the BS and unilateral authentication BS authenticates subscribers but not vice versa . It also supports periodic re authentication reauthorization and key refreshing. The key management protocol uses digital certificates together with RSA public key encryption algorithm and or a sequence starting with RSA authentication or even with ECC public key encryption algorithm. It uses strong encryption algorithms to perform key exchanges between a subscriber and a base station .

In some embodiments the SCM also provides encryption decryption of co existence beacons and embedding validation of ECC based certificates and or signatures embedded in the beacons. The various modules communicate with the network through a physical service access point or PHY SAP .

Having established secure communications the base station proceeds to apply authorization criteria to the candidate node. If the candidate node meets the criteria then the base station authorizes it to join the CRN . At this point a permanent ID is sent by the base station to the candidate node in a secure encrypted message . The permanent ID replaces the temporary ID in all future messages making it difficult for a malicious entity to associate any unencrypted messages intercepted during the beginning of the exchange with any messages intercepted once the permanent ID has been issued.

After an authorization waiting period the base station uses public key private authentication for example according to the RSA and or ECC protocols as well as digital certificate verification so as to authenticate the identity of the candidate node .

In various embodiments after authenticating candidate node the base station compares the location information supplied by the candidate node with a database of known incumbents and or with spectrum sensing and geo location information gathered by other nodes in the WRAN so as to determine if the candidate node is located in a protected area belonging to an incumbent and or if the candidate node is emitting spurious signals that might disrupt the WRAN.

For some embodiments if the candidate node does not support the method of the present invention then the step of authorization and key exchange is skipped. The BS in these embodiments simply considers the candidate node authenticated and authorizes the candidate node to access the network. In other embodiments if the candidate node does not support the method of the present invention it is not permitted to join the WRAN. The network entry of the candidate node is de authorized by the base station and neither key exchange nor data encryption is carried out.

If the authentication is successful and if there is no other reason to refuse entry by the candidate node into the WRAN the candidate node is authorized by the base station . Otherwise the candidate node is required to wait for a period before re attempting to join the WRAN. If this is an initial authorization i.e. the candidate node is joining the WRAN then the base station issues an authorization key or AK to the candidate node . Security of the AK is ensured b encryption using a public key that is included with the digital certificate supplied b the candidate node to the base station . In certain embodiments the base station also supplies a digital certificate which the candidate node uses to authenticate the base station thereby providing mutual authentication between the base station and the candidate node .

The AK is used by both the base station and the candidate node to generate a pair of encryption keys the key encryption key or KEK and the transmission encryption key or TEK. Thereafter the TEK is used to encrypt all data and network management and control traffic between the base station and the candidate node . For enhanced security the TEK periodically expires and must be replaced by a new TEK. The KEK is used exclusively for encryption of the replacement TEK s that are transmitted to the candidate node by the base station .

Various embodiments require periodic re authorization of each subscriber by the base station . After a re authorization waiting period the authentication and authorization processes are repeated. In some of these embodiments a new AK is supplied and a new KEK TEK pair is generated while in other embodiments such as the ne illustrated in a new AK is not generated when authorization of a subscriber is renewed.

In various embodiments the base station is capable of de authorizing a subscriber if it finds that the subscriber is not using valid authorization keys is generating spurious emissions and or is located in a region that is protected due to operation of a valid incumbent on the frequency channel also being used by the WRAN.

Embodiments of the present invention include authentication of beacons emitted by incumbent devices so as to protect the incumbents from harmful interference by a WRAN. In various embodiments the beacons include authentication information based on ECC based implicit certificates so as to allow subscribers and base stations s to verify the authenticity of the beacons.

In some embodiments ECC based implicit certificates are used to calculate a signature over the beacon. This signature is then added to the beacon as an information element IE . The receiving station subscriber or BS uses the certificate information to verify the signature.

This approach is illustrated in which illustrates a beacon omitted by a low power wireless microphone being detected by a nearby subscriber . Although the microphone is detected by only one subscriber in the WRAN verification of the digital certificate included in the beacon enables the WRAN to confidently authenticate the microphone as a valid incumbent and to take steps to avoid interference therewith.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

