---

title: Networked gaming headset
abstract: In an audio setup comprising at least one audio headset configurable to process audio for a first player (e.g., when participating in an online multiplayer game), a headset preset may be configured, and a token (or similar identifier) may be assigned to the headset preset. The headset preset may be uploaded into a central headset preset depository, which may be accessible by a plurality of players. The first player may share the token, via a network connection, with a second player, and second player may use the token to download the headset preset from the central headset preset depository into a second audio setup, comprising at least one other audio headset configurable to process audio for the second player. The downloaded headset preset may be utilized in configuring the other audio headset, for processing audio for the second player (e.g., when participating in the online multiplayer game).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09313569&OS=09313569&RS=09313569
owner: VOYETRA TURTLE BEACH, INC.
number: 09313569
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140904
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from the U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 894 161 filed Oct. 22 2013 and entitled Networked Gaming Headset which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The entirety of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 entitled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553. The above stated application s is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for networked gaming headset.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for networked gaming headset substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Referring to there is shown game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a UNIX computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a video interface radio data interface network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding 3D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or nonvolatile memory which stores parameter settings that affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

Referring to again shown is the console connected to a plurality of peripheral devices and a network . The example peripheral devices shown include a monitor a user interface device a headset an audio basestation and a multi purpose device .

The monitor and user interface device are as described above. An example implementation of the headset is described below with reference to . An example implementation of the audio basestation is described below with reference to .

The multi purpose device may be for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example implementation of the multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface via which a user can access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings etc. and via which the user can interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance his her gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

Referring to there is shown two views of an example headset that may present audio output by a gaming console such as the console . The headset comprises a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device and or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and . In some instances sets of various parameter settings may be predefined for use in configuring headsets and or controlling operations thereof. Such sets of various parameter settings are referenced in this application as headset presets. 

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

In an example implementation the headset may be configured to as networked gaming headset i.e. to support network access and use thereof in conjunction with operation of the headset. For example the headset may be configurable to utilize network accessibility to store share and or obtain information relating to use or operation of the headset particularly during multi player online gaming.

In one particular embodiment configuring the headset as a networked gaming headset may be done in conjunction with use of headset presets. In this regard a headset headset preset may comprise a set of values corresponding to one or more configurable parameter settings that are used by or applied to various components of the headset such as components used in conjunction with audio processing e.g. to enable adjusting audio characteristics and or components pertinent to operation of the headset . For example different headset presets may comprise values applicable to particular configurable parameter settings to produce different audio effects in audio inputs e.g. audio corresponding to inputs via the microphone of the headset . The different configurable input related parameter settings may be used to for example adaptively control how a player s voice that is a voice of user of the headset e.g. using voice morphing techniques may sound to listeners of the audio e.g. other player s in multi player online game. Different headset presets may also comprise values applicable to particular configurable parameter settings to produce different audio effects in audio outputs e.g. outputs via the speakers and of the headset . For example the different configurable output related parameter settings may be used to for example variably control equalizer settings to control how voices of other players may sound. Also different headset presets may comprise different headset operation related parameter settings. For example different headset presets may comprise values applicable to particular configurable parameter settings that may provide for different functionality of re definable inputs e.g. buttons or switches on the headset .

To support configuring and or operation of the headset as a network gaming headset dedicated components may be used and or incorporated into the headset and or existing components may be modified or adjusted. The headset may incorporate for example the headset preset management component which may comprise suitable circuitry for managing headset presets and use thereof in the headset . For example the headset preset management component may be configured to manage generation storage sharing and or obtaining headset presets in the headset . In another example implementation the functions of the preset management circuitry may be integrated into the other components e.g. CPU of the headset .

In some instances headset presets may be stored in and or obtained from remote dedicated resources. For example a centralized headset preset depository may be utilized. Headset presets may be uploaded to or downloaded from the depository to enable sharing or exchanging i.e. for value as further explained below of headset presets among players. Such use scenario is described in more detail with respect to for example .

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console . wireless protocols.

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to headphones .

The CPU comprises circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

The application processor comprises circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the multi purpose device and or part of one or more software applications running on the multi purpose device .

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises circuitry operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises circuitry operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The LAN subsystem comprises circuitry operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of wired optical and or wireless signals e.g. in accordance Wi Fi Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth Ethernet and or the other standards .

The bus adaptor comprises circuitry for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises circuitry operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises circuitry to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

Each of the headsets and may be similar to the headset for example. In this regard the headsets and may be utilized by users and respectively to facilitate outputting audio e.g. via speakers of the headsets to the users and including performing necessary audio processing related thereto . Furthermore the headsets and may also be utilized in capturing audio e.g. via microphones from the users and and processing the audio input and in some instances communicating the audio e.g. to other users such as during online gaming .

The headsets and may be coupled to the hosts and respectively e.g. via connections and . In this regard each of the hosts and may comprise suitable circuitry for supporting operation of headsets e.g. the headsets and . For example the hosts and may be configured for providing or supporting such functions as processing audio and or non audio storage networking and the like which may be needed during operation of the headsets and . In an example embodiment each of the hosts and may correspond to at least a portion of a combination of a game console e.g. similar to the game console and a basestation e.g. similar to the basestation with the connections and comprising wireless links e.g. similar to the link . The disclosure is not so limited however and in some instances a host may correspond to any suitable electronic device or system which may be configured to perform any of the operations or functions described with respect to the hosts and .

In operation the combinations of headset host and headset host may be operable to support processing and or communication of audio associated with the two different users players and such as during multi player online gaming for example.

In some instances the headsets and may be configured as networked gaming headsets. Networked gaming headsets may use their network connections to share and or exchange e.g. for value directly and or indirectly e.g. via intermediary media or systems data during and or relating to online gaming. In the particular example use scenario shown in the headsets and may support generation and sharing of headset presets. As described in more detail with respect to headset presets may comprise information relating to configuring one or more parameter settings that are used during processing or operation of headsets. Each combination of headset host i is an integer may be used for example to generate headset presets. For example the combination of headset host may be utilized in generating a headset preset which may define values applicable to one or more configurable parameter settings used in the headset e.g. parameter settings relating to input audio output audio and or control of the audio or headset . In some instances each headset preset may be assigned an identifier e.g. token which may be set such that to enable uniquely identifying the headset preset.

The headset preset may be stored at least initially locally e.g. within the host and or the headset . In networked gaming use scenarios however headset presets may be stored remotely and or shared or exchanged for value among players. For example a web based service may be utilized to provide an online centralized depository of data including headset presets. The web based service may be configured on a plurality of hardware resources e.g. storage elements processing elements routing elements etc. using suitable software and firmware solutions such as for managing operations of the web based service and or for controlling or supporting applications or functions associated with the web based service . The web based service may be configured to support such functions for example as remote storage of headset presets and sharing or exchanging of these headset presets. For example the web based service may comprise a headset preset database DB which may be used to store a plurality of present entries . Accordingly headset presets may be uploaded by players into the web based service and stored therein. For example once the headset preset is generated the headset preset may associated with an identifier e.g. based on player user command or selection for remote storage. Accordingly the host may establish connection to the web based service and may utilize that connection to upload the headset preset and or its identifier into the headset preset DB .

The players may then share or exchange headset presets using the remotely stored copies thereof in the web based service . The sharing or exchanging of the headset presets may be done by sharing or exchanging information that enable retrieving them from the online remote depository. For example since each headset preset may be assigned a unique token tokens may be shared between the players with the token then being used for downloading the corresponding headset presets from the online central depository. The sharing of the tokens or other information that may be used to facilitate accessing and retrieving of the headset presets may be done over direct peer to peer connection. For example hosts and may establish direct peer to peer connection which player may then use the direct peer to peer connection to send player the token identifying the headset preset . Alternatively tokens or similar information may be shared using indirect connection. For example existing web based social services an example of which web based social service is shown which may inherently offer measures for ensuring confidential and validated user to user connections may be used. As shown in the hosts and may establish respectively connections and to the web based social service . Additionally or alternatively tokens that identify headset presets may be shared via email SMS MMS or the like.

The shared token and or other necessary information may be provided to the web based service which may then download the corresponding headset preset to the headset of the other player. For example once the first player shares the token and or other necessary information with the second player directly or via the web based social service the second player may provide the token to the web based service . In this regard the host may establish a connection to the web based service which may be used in communicating the token to the web based service . The web based service may then download the corresponding headset preset to the headset of the second player .

The web based service may be configured to validate players before allowing download of headset presets by the players. The validation of the players may simply be based on providing the correct tokens i.e. possession or knowledge of tokens associated with headset presets may be interpreted as indication that the player is permitted to download the headset presets. In some instances additional validation information may be required e.g. user name identifier password etc. .

In some instances headset presets or information related thereto e.g. tokens are exchanged conditionally e.g. for value. For example headset presets may be traded among players in exchange for things of value in the online games such as lives points tools skills virtual money and or the like. In some instances headset presets may even be exchanged for monitory compensation e.g. pay or credit . Accordingly sharing the headset presets or information related thereto may entail negotiating values for the offered headset preset s .

In starting step a headset e.g. the headset may be powered on and or set to an initial operating state whereby the headset may be ready for outputting of audio e.g. microphone audio and or handling of input audio e.g. game and or chat audio . In step a new headset preset may be generated or an existing headset preset may be modified e.g. based on user input or selections. In this regard modifying existing headset presets may comprise retrieving previously stored copies thereof for example from a centralized preset depository which may be managed via web service such as the web based service .

In step a token or similar type of unique identifier may be assigned to the headset preset if not previously assigned e.g. if the headset preset was not an existing one that was simply modified . In some instances additional information may also be assigned to the headset preset e.g. for use in validating users accessing them .

In step the headset preset may be uploaded in lieu of or in addition to storing it locally to the centralized preset depository. In some instances the uploading may comprise performing user validation before storing new headset presets or overwriting existing copies thereof e.g. to validate that the user has permission to access and or use the centralized preset depository and or the web based service managing it.

In starting step a headset e.g. the headset may be powered on and or set to an initial operating state whereby the headset may be ready for outputting of audio e.g. microphone audio and or handling of input audio e.g. game and or chat audio . In step the first player may request a headset preset from a centralized preset depository which may be managed via web service such as the web based service . The request may comprise for example providing a token associated with the requested headset preset which a second player the one to whom the requested headset preset belongs may have shared with the first player. In this regard token or information facilitating access to headset presets may be shared or exchanged directly using peer to peer connection such as the connection or indirectly e.g. via a commonly accessed service such as the web based social service . In step a request validation may be performed e.g. in the centralized preset depository where the headset preset is stored . In an example implementation the request validation may at a minimum comprise validating that the user provided the particular token or other identifying information associated with the requested headset preset. Further the validation may also entail validating the requesting player. In instances where the request validation fails the process may proceed to an exit state . In this regard the exit state may comprise generating and communicating notification of rejected attempts to obtain the headset preset e.g. notifications sent to the requesting player and or the player to whom the headset preset belongs .

Returning to step in instances where the request validation is successful the process may proceed to step . In step the player may download the headset preset from the centralized preset depository e.g. into the headset used thereby . In step the headset used by the player may be configured based on the downloaded headset preset.

Various embodiments of the invention may comprise a system and a method for networked gaming headsets. For example in an audio setup e.g. combination of headset host comprising at least one audio headset e.g. the headset which may be configurable to process audio for a first player e.g. player when participating in an online multiplayer game a headset preset e.g. headset preset may be configured. In this regard a headset preset may comprise values for one or more configurable parameter settings relating to operation or functions of the headset . A token or similar identifier may be assigned to the headset preset. The headset preset may then be uploaded into a central headset preset depository e.g. the preset DB which may be accessible by a plurality of players. The first player may then share the token via a network connection with a second player e.g. player who may be utilizing a second audio setup e.g. combination of headset host comprising at least one other audio headset e.g. the headset which may be configurable to process audio for the second player. Access to the central headset preset depository may be managed via a web accessed service e.g. the web based service which may support web based user interactions for uploading and or downloading headset presets. The second player may download the headset preset from the central headset preset depository into the other audio headset. The downloaded headset preset may then be utilized in configuring the other audio headset used by the second player for processing audio for the second player participating in the online multiplayer game. The downloading of the headset preset by the second player may only be allowed based on validation of the second player. The second player may be validated based on for example the token associated with the headset preset. The token may be shared by the first player with the second player using direct peer to peer connection or via a web accessed social service e.g. the web based social service . The headset preset may be shared with the second player based on a negotiation for compensation for sharing of the headset preset. The compensation may be something of value in an online game for example. The operation or function of the headset may control the sound of the first player s voice in an online chat. The operation or function of the headset may also be a multi band equalizer. The headset preset may be associated with a particular video game such that the multi band equalizer may be configured to enhance particular sounds of said particular game.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

