---

title: Modular air delivery
abstract: Aspects of modular airborne delivery are described. When a shipping container is provided to an airborne carrier for delivery, the airborne carrier may assess weather across a route for airborne delivery of the shipping container, evaluate an approach to drop the shipping container at a delivery zone, and calculate a remaining amount of time until a target delivery time, for example. The airborne carrier may then select components to assemble a modular unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) based on those or other factors, and assemble the UAV using the selected components. The modular UAV may then be directed to deliver the shipping container according to instructions from the airborne carrier. According to the concepts described herein, flexibility and other advantages may be achieved using modular UAVs for airborne delivery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348333&OS=09348333&RS=09348333
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09348333
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
After an order is placed through an electronic commerce marketplace items in the order are picked the order is packaged into one or more shipping or packing containers and the shipping or packing containers are provided to a carrier for delivery. The purchaser may choose a class of delivery service based upon considerations such as price delivery speed etc. The purchaser may also choose one or more shipping options including insurance tracking or confirmation etc. Typically a carrier will gather several packages for delivery to various addresses along a delivery route using a delivery truck for example without any need to customize the delivery truck and or the delivery route for the packages individually.

Various aspects of modular air delivery are described herein. More particularly when a shipping container or package including one or more items from a product order is provided to an airborne carrier for delivery the airborne carrier assembles an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV i.e. aircraft drone etc. from modular components. The modular UAV is then directed to deliver the shipping container over an airborne delivery route according to instructions from the airborne carrier. According to aspects of the embodiments described herein the airborne carrier may select or assemble the modular UAV based on various considerations such as a weight and or volume of the shipping container a target delivery time the weather a route or approach to a target delivery zone safety considerations or other considerations.

Turning to for additional context illustrates a system for modular air delivery. The system includes an electronic commerce platform a fulfillment center an airborne carrier a network and one or more client devices . As described herein the system provides a modular air delivery service to the geographic region . Starting with a concise operating description of the system in one example an order may be placed through the network to the electronic commerce platform using one of the client devices . Next the order may be submitted from the electronic commerce platform to the fulfillment center for fulfillment e.g. picking packing etc. . At the fulfillment center one or more items from the order are packaged into a first shipping container for delivery. In turn the fulfillment center provides the shipping container along with a destination address for delivery to the airborne carrier for airborne delivery. In one embodiment the airborne carrier may be integrated with the fulfillment center and operate as part of the fulfillment center . Alternatively the airborne carrier may be a separate entity from the entity that operates the fulfillment center . Similarly the electronic commerce platform may be integrated with e.g. collocated at or separate from the fulfillment center .

To deliver the shipping container the airborne carrier assembles a first UAV from modular components. In various embodiments the UAV may be assembled based on instructions from the modular assembly controller as further described below. Once assembled the UAV may then proceed to deliver the shipping container to the delivery zone in the geographic region . Similarly to deliver a second shipping container which may include items for another order originated via the electronic commerce platform the airborne carrier assembles a second UAV from modular components. Again the UAV may be assembled based on instructions from the modular assembly controller . Once assembled the UAV then proceeds to deliver the shipping container to the delivery zone in the geographic region . In some embodiments one or both of the UAVs and may be directed to different delivery zones and respectively by the ground controller as further described below. In this context during and or after delivery the ground controller may wirelessly communicate with the UAVs and via the network which may include wireless e.g. cellular satellite etc. services .

It is noted that the airborne carrier may assemble first UAV using different modular components as compared to those used to assemble second UAV based on various factors and or considerations described herein. For example because the volume and or weight of the shipping container may differ from that of the shipping container the UAV may be assembled using a different modular platform a different thruster arrangement and or a different battery for example to accommodate for the difference in weight. Further because of the difference in distance to the delivery zone as compared to the delivery zone the airborne carrier may assemble the UAV using different modular components as compared to the UAV . In this context the airborne carrier may assemble the UAV using components for a faster delivery to the delivery zone for example to account for the increased distance to the delivery zone . Alternatively the airborne carrier may assemble the UAV using a different e.g. more sophisticated arrangement of sensors as compared to the UAV because more accuracy is needed in the approach to the delivery zone which is in an urban environment as compared to that for the delivery zone .

As described in further detail below with reference to the modular assembly controller may provide instructions to assemble the UAVs and and others based on various considerations such as a weight and or volume of shipping containers target delivery times the weather safety considerations etc. The modular assembly controller may take these and other factors into account when identifying suitable modular components from which to build the UAVs and as further described below. Additionally the modular assembly controller may receive certain information from the ground controller such as route and or approach data and the modular assembly controller may consider this information when providing instructions to assemble the UAVs and .

The modular assembly controller may provide instructions to assemble the UAVs and from any number of different modular components including but not limited to one or more airborne platforms thrusters sensors control systems airfoils batteries loading bays and other components. In this sense a UAV may be assembled from a smaller or greater number of modular components depending upon the considerations described herein. In certain embodiments rather than selecting a number of components from which to assemble a UAV the modular assembly controller may select a UAV from among group of pre assembled UAVs having different characteristics depending upon the considerations described herein.

With an expanded view of the elements of the airborne carrier illustrates another view of the system for modular air delivery. As also shown in the airborne carrier includes the modular assembly controller and the ground controller . The modular assembly controller includes the modular data store and the assembly engine . In the modular data store modular component data and flight attribute data as illustrated in may be stored along with any other data relied upon by the assembly engine . The operation of the assembly engine and use of the data stored in the modular data store is described in further detail below. The ground controller includes the ground control data store and the flight plan engine . In the ground control data store weather data topography data and delivery zone data for example may be stored along with any other data relied upon by the flight plan engine . The operation of the flight plan engine and use of the data stored in the ground control data store is described in further detail below. The modular assembly controller and the ground controller may be embodied in the computing environment . The airborne carrier also includes the assembler and the modular components each of which is described in further detail below. For simplicity the fulfillment center is omitted from view in .

Before turning to a more detailed description of the airborne carrier it should be appreciated that the electronic commerce platform the fulfillment center and the airborne carrier may be geographically located together with or apart from each other. In one embodiment the electronic commerce platform is geographically located apart from the fulfillment center although the fulfillment center is located together with or relatively close to the airborne carrier . In other aspects of the embodiments it should be appreciated that the modular assembly controller the ground controller and or the assembly controller may be geographically located together with or apart from each other. In this context although the modular assembly controller and the ground controller are illustrated in as being embodied in the computing environment the modular assembly controller and the ground controller may be embodied in separate computing environments systems or devices.

The computing environment may be embodied as a computer system or device. In certain embodiments the computing environment may include one or more computing devices arranged for example in one or more server or computer banks. The computing device or devices may be located at a single installation site or distributed among different geographical locations. As further described below in connection with the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together embody a hosted computing resource a grid computing resource and or other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may be embodied as an elastic computing resource where an allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources varies over time. The computing environment may also be embodied in part as various functional e.g. computer readable instruction and or logic e.g. device circuit or processing circuit elements that direct the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller to perform aspects of the embodiments described herein.

The electronic commerce platform may be embodied as a computer system or device that operates an electronic marketplace for selling goods and or services. In this context the electronic commerce platform may facilitate the online purchase of items over the network . The electronic commerce platform may also perform various back end functions associated with the online presence of a merchant to facilitate the online purchase of items. For example the electronic commerce platform may generate network pages such as web pages or other types of network content that are provided to the client devices for selecting items for purchase.

In certain embodiments the electronic commerce platform may be similar in composition to the computing environment including one or more computing devices arranged for example in one or more server or computer banks. In one embodiment the computing environment and the electronic commerce platform may communicate with each other via the network . In other embodiments the computing environment and the electronic commerce platform may be embodied in a shared e.g. collocated or integrated computing system.

The network may include the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks cable networks cellular based networks satellite based networks other suitable networks or any combinations thereof. The electronic commerce platform the client devices and the computing environment may communicate with each other using various protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP real time messaging protocol RTMP user datagram protocol UDP internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP and or any other suitable protocols for communicating data over the network without limitation.

The client devices are representative of one or a plurality of client devices of one or more users. The client devices may be embodied as any computing device or system including but not limited to those embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone or a tablet computer among other example computing devices and systems. The client devices may also include various peripheral devices for example. In this context the peripheral devices may include input devices such as for example a keyboard keypad touch pad touch screen microphone scanner mouse joystick camera or one or more buttons etc. The peripheral devices may also include a display indicator lights speakers etc. depending upon the primary use of the client devices .

As illustrated in the client devices may execute various applications such as the client application which is representative of one application that may be executed on a client device . In one embodiment the client application may be embodied as a browser application. Such a browser application may be directed by an individual to purchase certain items from the electronic commerce platform for example via the network . To this end the client application may be embodied as a commercially available hypertext based internet browser or other browser or variant thereof without limitation. Alternatively the client application may be embodied as one or more other applications that interact with the electronic commerce platform using a suitable protocol via the network .

Turning to a more detailed description of the operation of the airborne carrier after an order is placed to the electronic commerce platform through the network using one of the client devices for example the order is submitted to the fulfillment center for fulfillment e.g. picking packing etc. . At the fulfillment center one or more items from the order are packaged into the shipping containers and or for example. In turn the fulfillment center may provide the shipping containers and or to the airborne carrier for airborne delivery as shown in .

To deliver the shipping containers and or the airborne carrier may assemble one or both of the UAVs and from the modular components . In various embodiments the UAVs and may be assembled based on instructions generated by the modular assembly controller as further described below. The instructions from the modular assembly controller may be provided to the assembler that in turn assembles modular UAVs such as the UAVs and according to the instructions. Generally the instructions may indicate which ones of the modular components should be assembled together to provide the UAVs and .

The assembler may be embodied as one or more assembly lines robotic pickers assembly robots etc. configured to assemble modular UAVs using the modular components based on the instructions provided from the modular assembly controller . In some embodiments the assembler may include one or more individuals that may assist at least in part with the assembly of modular UAVs.

The modular components may include components e.g. parts from which various types of UAVs may be assembled by the assembler . Depending upon the components used the UAVs may differ in certain characteristics of airborne delivery such as shipping volume or weight capacity flight speed flight distance flight accuracy delivery zone approach accuracy obstacle avoidance or safety or other characteristics. In this context the modular components may include various airborne platforms thrusters sensors control systems airfoils batteries loading bays and other components for example from which different configurations of UAVs may be assembled. For any particular airborne delivery task the modular assembly controller may select a group of the modular components for assembly of a modular UAV based on various factors and or considerations described herein.

The airborne platforms may include various configurations and sizes of platforms including or excluding airfoils i.e. fixed wings vertical stabilizers horizontal stabilizers etc. for assembling various horizontal and or vertical take off and landing and or horizontal thrust and or vertical thrust rotor craft. Using one of the airborne platforms as a base structure the assembler may attach additional components such as one or more of the thrusters sensors control systems airfoils batteries loading bays or other components to form a UAV. The thrusters may include different types and sizes of motors engines etc. with or without associated propellers.

The sensors may include various sensors including but not limited to cameras multi dimensional camera arrays infrared or thermal sensors radar sensors laser based survey sensors e.g. LIDAR electro optical infrared sensor packages one or more micro or nano electromechanical system NEMS or MEMS or other accelerometers gyroscopes or orientation sensors global positioning system GPS sensors height altitude or altimeter sensors ultrasonic sensors atmospheric pressure sensors etc. In addition to individual ones of the sensors being available for selection the sensors may be embodied in various arrangements or packages of sensors. For example camera and radar sensors may be incorporated together with one or more accelerometers gyroscopes or orientation sensors in a single modular sensor package. In this way the sensors may be simplified to a more limited set of modular sensor packages.

The sensors may provide data for navigation of UAVs such as the UAVs and for example along a predetermined delivery route for example and to approach a delivery zone for delivery. For example data from one or more of the sensors may be provided to one of the control systems that in turn navigate the UAV for a delivery. Additionally data captured by the sensors may be provided as feedback to the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller for reference during the generation of assembly instructions for other UAVs and or for the evaluation of delivery routes or approaches to delivery zones for other airborne deliveries.

The control systems may include various application specific embedded and or general purpose computing or control systems that may be configured to control the flight and delivery operations of UAVs such as the UAVs and for example. In this context each of the control systems may include one or more processors or processing circuits logic memory etc. that may be configured to control the flight and delivery operations of a UAV. In one embodiment the control systems may be programmed or otherwise directed by the ground controller for flight and delivery operations. Particularly as further described below the flight plan engine may evaluate a flight plan or route to a delivery zone and generate flight plan instructions for airborne delivery based on the evaluation. Similarly the flight plan engine may evaluate the conditions for a safe approach e.g. shipping container drop at a delivery zone. In this context the flight plan engine may review data related to the delivery zone such as the geographic location accessibility visibility population or construction density e.g. urban vs. suburban etc. to generate approach instructions. The flight plan and or approach instructions may be provided to e.g. programmed into wirelessly communicated to etc. a control system before during and or after the control system is assembled by the assembler with components of a UAV.

The airfoils may include various modular wings fins tails etc. Depending upon weather conditions the need for speed during airborne delivery the distance to be traveled or other factors the modular assembly controller may select one or more of the airfoils for assembly with a UAV. It should be appreciated however that there are situations in which the modular assembly controller may not select one or any of the airfoils for assembly with a UAV. The batteries may include various sizes types and configurations of batteries to provide energy to one of more of the thrusters the sensors or the control systems for example among other components in a UAV. The modular assembly controller may select one or more of the batteries based on size type or configuration with reference to various considerations such as weight capacity distance to be flown etc. as described herein. The loading bays may include various sizes and configurations of modular loading bays. In this context it is noted that a loading bay may be selected to enclose a shipping container during delivery although the use of a loading bay is not required for every configuration of UAV.

The description of the modular components provided above is given by way of example and should not be limiting. Consistent with the concepts of modular air delivery described herein other modular components may be relied upon. Further in variations on the modular components described above it should be appreciated that certain modular components may be integrated with each other for example in certain configurations. For example one or more of the batteries may be provided or integrated with one or more of the loading bays . As another example one or more of the sensors may be provided or integrated with one or more of the control systems . It is also noted that one or more of the modular components may be assembled together in any suitable manner by the assembler . In this sense the assembler may rely upon certain types of standard connectors to snap or fit one or more of the modular components together. Additionally or alternatively the assembler may rely upon fasteners such as screws bolts snaps etc. to secure one or more of the modular components together.

Referring again to the assembly engine is configured to select one or more of the modular components to assemble UAVs such as the UAVs and for example. When selecting modular components the assembly engine may take various factors and or considerations into account such as a weight and or volume of one or more shipping containers to be delivered via airborne delivery a target delivery time for the airborne delivery the weather across a route for the airborne delivery an approach to drop the shipping container at a delivery zone the accuracy required for the approach a flight distance to the delivery zone the required flight speed to the delivery zone i.e. remaining time to target delivery required flight accuracy the necessity for obstacle avoidance or safety and or other factors or considerations. In various embodiments the assembly engine may be provided with or need to calculate one or more of the factors. For example the electronic commerce platform may provide an address or coordinates to a target delivery zone along with a target delivery time for airborne delivery of one or both of the shipping containers and . On the other hand the assembly engine may calculate a remaining amount of time until the target delivery time or the required flight speed. Similarly the assembly engine may evaluate the approach to drop the shipping container at the delivery zone the required accuracy in the approach and or the necessity for obstacle avoidance or safety during an airborne delivery.

When selecting the modular components to assemble UAVs the assembly engine may reference the modular component data and or the flight attribute data . The modular component data may include information related to certain characteristics of the modular components . For example the modular component data may include information related to the sizes of the airborne platforms the charge or power capacities of the batteries the processing capabilities of the control systems and or the types of data gathered by the sensors . Similarly the flight attribute data may include information related to flight characteristics of the modular components . For example the flight attribute data may include information about the flight characteristics of the airborne platforms the airfoils and or the loading bays . Additionally the modular component data and or the flight attribute data may include information related to operating characteristics for combinations of two or more of the modular components . In this sense the modular component data and or the flight attribute data may include information related to flight characteristics for a combination of one of the airborne platforms used with one or more of the airfoils .

When selecting the modular components the assembly engine may also receive input from the ground controller . For example the ground controller may provide information related to a suggested route for airborne delivery present or future weather conditions across or along a route for airborne delivery the topography of natural and or man made structures along the route and or any obstacles or considerations to be taken into account when making a final approach to drop a shipping container at a delivery zone. The information provided from the ground controller may be determined calculated or otherwise evaluated by the flight plan engine . The flight plan engine may reference the weather data the topography data and or the delivery zone data when providing information to the assembly engine . Generally the weather data includes information on present or future weather conditions in one or more geographic regions. Further the topography data includes information on natural and or man made structures in one or more geographic regions and the delivery zone data includes coordinate obstacle and or other data related to making the final approach to drop a shipping container.

As illustrated in the process includes receiving one or more shipping containers at reference numeral . With reference to for example context the shipping containers and or may be provided at reference numeral from the fulfillment center to the airborne carrier for airborne delivery. In addition the electronic commerce platform and or the fulfillment center may provide a delivery address delivery coordinates etc. to the airborne carrier at reference numeral along with a target delivery time for delivery of the containers and or among other pertinent information.

At reference numeral the process includes assessing various aspects of the weather across a route to a delivery zone for airborne delivery of the one or more shipping containers received at reference numeral . Here at reference numeral the flight plan engine may assess the weather across the route and or provide data to the assembly engine by which the weather may be assessed. The weather may be considered by the assembly engine when identifying modular components at reference numeral for assembly of a UAV. More particularly the assembly engine may base the selection at reference numeral of one or more of the modular components according to the assessment of the weather conducted at reference numeral . For example the assembly engine may base the selection of one or more of the thrusters the sensors and or the airfoils on the assessment of the weather at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes evaluating an approach to drop the shipping container at the delivery zone. Here the flight plan engine may assess the final approach at a particular delivery zone and or provide data to the assembly engine by which the approach may be assessed. The evaluation may identify whether a vertical delivery zone was previously identified or used whether any obstacles exist at the delivery zone and or whether any particular sensors are required for navigation at the delivery zone for example. The evaluation may be considered by the assembly engine when identifying modular components at reference numeral for assembly of a UAV. More particularly the assembly engine may base the selection at reference numeral of one or more of the modular components according to the assessment of the approach conducted at reference numeral . For example the assembly engine may base the selection of one or more of the thrusters the sensors and or the airfoils on the approach evaluated at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes calculating a remaining amount of time until a target delivery time for the airborne delivery. As noted above the target delivery time for airborne delivery of one or more shipping containers such as the shipping containers and or may be provided to the assembly engine by the electronic commerce platform and or the fulfillment center at reference numeral . Here the assembly engine may calculate the remaining amount of time based on a difference between the current time and the target delivery time. The remaining amount of time until the target delivery time may be considered by the assembly engine when identifying modular components at reference numeral for assembly of a UAV. For example the assembly engine may base the selection of one or more of the thrusters on the remaining amount of time.

Overall at reference numerals and a plurality of delivery considerations that may affect an airborne delivery may be evaluated and or calculated. It is noted that the considerations described above are not intended to be exhaustive of or limiting to the scope of the embodiments. Further the considerations may be evaluated in combination with each other. For example the presence of relatively strong wings may be considered along with the evaluation of the approach to a delivery zone to identify whether a particular type of platform or thruster is preferable.

At reference numeral the process includes identifying a set of modular components to assemble an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV for airborne delivery of the one or more shipping containers received at reference numeral . Among other factors described herein the assembly engine may identify or select the set of modular components based at least in part on any of the factors calculated and or assessed at reference numerals or or any other factors or considerations discussed herein. The identification of modular components at reference numeral is described in further detail below with reference to . In one embodiment rather than identifying a number of components from which to assemble a UAV the process may include selecting a UAV from among group of pre assembled UAVs based on the factors calculated and or assessed at reference numerals or for example at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes providing assembly instructions to assemble a UAV using the set of modular components identified at reference numeral . Here the assembly engine may provide instructions to the assembler for example. The instructions may identify a certain airborne platform arrangement of the thrusters and or one or more of the sensors . Additionally or alternatively the instructions may include a list of preferred modular components along with suitable substitutes. Thus if one or more of the modular components are missing in use or otherwise unavailable the instructions may indicate one or more suitable alternatives. Similarly because the instructions may include a list of preferred modular components the instructions may embody recommendations for assembly of a UAV rather than a strict set of instructions.

At reference numeral the process includes assembling the UAV using the set of modular components identified at reference numeral according to the instructions provided at reference numeral . In this context at reference numeral the assembler may pick the set of modular components identified at reference numeral from among the modular components and assemble the UAV with reference to the assembly instructions provided by the assembly engine at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes dispatching the UAV assembled at reference numeral with one or more of the shipping containers received at reference numeral to deliver the shipping containers. At reference numeral flight plan and or approach instructions may be provided to e.g. programmed into wirelessly communicated to etc. a control system of the UAV assembled at reference numeral . The flight plan and or approach instructions may have been previously generated and evaluated by the flight plan engine and or the assembly engine for example.

At reference numeral the process includes receiving and storing feedback data from the UAV dispatched at reference numeral . In this context it is noted that the UAV dispatched at reference numeral is capable of capturing various types of data during its airborne delivery flight and or approach to drop a shipping container at a delivery zone. For example the UAV may capture images and or topology data flight performance data approach data weather data or other types of data along the delivery route. This data may be provided by the UAV back to the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller as data to be incorporated as part of the modular component data the flight attribute data the weather data the topography data or the delivery zone data . In one aspect of the embodiments if insufficient data is available in the modular data store and or the ground control data store the assembly engine may select certain ones of the modular components for feedback data collection. For example if additional topography data is needed then the assembly engine may select one or more particular sensors at reference numeral to gather the desired topography data . Alternatively if certain flight attribute data is needed for a particular one of the airfoils then the assembly engine may select the particular one of the airfoils to gather the desired flight attribute data .

At reference numeral the process includes delivering the one or more of the shipping containers received at reference numeral using the UAV assembled at reference numeral . After the delivery at reference numeral the UAV may return to the airborne carrier for disassembly and the process may end.

Turning to certain considerations when identifying modular components i.e. at reference numeral in are illustrated. In some embodiments certain rules may be followed during the identification of modular components using a rules based approach as described in some examples below. For example if a UAV craft needs to take off and land vertically e.g. if there is no horizontal approach clearance then a certain set of the thrusters may be identified for use at reference numeral . As another example if the evaluation of the approach to a delivery zone indicates the likelihood of individuals being present in the vicinity of the delivery zone then a particular infrared sensor may be identified for use at reference numeral .

As shown in identifying modular components may include selecting one or more of the modular airborne platforms at reference numeral selecting one or more of the thrusters at reference numeral selecting at least one of the sensors at reference numeral selecting at least one of the control systems at reference numeral selecting at least one of the airfoils at reference numeral selecting one or more of the batteries at reference numeral selecting one or more of the loading bays at reference numeral or selecting other components. Before turning to a discussion of reference numerals and individually it is noted that any one or more of the selections may be omitted in various embodiments. In other words it is not necessary in the assembly of every UAV for example that an airfoil be selected at reference or that a loading bay is selected at reference numeral . As such a modular UAV may be assembled from other components without an airfoil or loading bay for example among other components that may be omitted. Further it is not necessary in all embodiments that a single particular component be selected at reference numerals and . Rather one or more preferred modular components may be selected along with suitable substitutes.

Consistent with the description provided above the assembly engine may select a modular airborne platform at reference numeral based on various factors the primary ones of which being the weight or volume of a shipping container. Other important factors may include the type UAV that may be assembled using the selected platform e.g. quad copter vs. fixed wing craft and the ability for the selected platform to be assembled with other components that may be necessary for the delivery such as certain thrusters and or sensors .

The selection of one or more of the thrusters by the assembly engine at reference numeral may be based on various factors including a remaining amount of delivery time desired flight speed required lift or other factors. Individual thrusters may be selected in a combination at reference numeral to provide a desired arrangement of thrusters. The assembly engine may also consider the amount of power required by the selected thrusters and balance that with the selection of one or more of the batteries for example taking the distance to the delivery zone into account.

The selection of one or more of the sensors by the assembly engine at reference numeral may be based on the need for accuracy in flight at certain times of day or in certain types of weather approach to the delivery zone the ability to capture topography data or other factors. The selection of a control system by the assembly engine at reference numeral may be based on the need for a certain level of processing ability and or memory storage such as the need to process and store images radar or other data in real time.

The selection of one or more of the airfoils by the assembly engine at reference numeral may be based on the need for stability in certain types of weather the need to achieve a certain rate of flight speed or other appropriate factors. The selection of one or more of the batteries by the assembly engine at reference numeral may be based on the amount of power needed for a certain flight duration the weight of the shipping container s being transported and other factors.

The selection of one or more of the loading bays at reference numeral may be based upon the size of the shipping container s being transported the need to protect the shipping containers and other factors. In some embodiments a limited number of different sizes of shipping containers are available for selection. In that case each of the available shipping containers may occupy a scalar amount of an internal volume of any one of the loading bays . In other words each available shipping container may have a volume that is equal to one one half one third one quarter or other fraction i.e. a scalar amount of the internal volume of one of the loading bays . In this way when combinations of the shipping containers are placed into a loading bay the shipping containers may occupy the entire volume of the loading bay to prevent the shipping containers from moving or shifting. In some cases spacers may be used to occupy empty space in a loading bay . Further one or more of the shipping containers and or the loading bay may be balanced with counterweights or other components to provide stability for a UAV.

According to the concepts described herein additional flexibility in airborne delivery may be achieved using modularity. For example the maintenance upkeep and replacement of parts for a fleet of UAVs including the UAVs and for example may be simplified because the modular components of the UAVs are stored as unassembled separated components. Further airborne delivery be achieved using UAVs composed of the least number of necessary components. Thus in the case of the accidental loss or destruction of a UAV it may be less expensive to replace the UAV. These and other advantages to using modular airborne delivery may be easily recognized.

In various embodiments the memory stores data and software or executable code components executable by the processor . For example the memory may store executable code components associated with the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller for execution by the processor . The memory may also store data such as that stored in the modular data store and or the ground control data store among other data.

It should be understood and appreciated that the memory may store other executable code components for execution by the processor . For example an operating system may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor . Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C JAVA JAVASCRIPT Perl PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY FLASH or other programming languages.

As discussed above in various embodiments the memory stores software for execution by the processor . In this respect the terms executable or for execution refer to software forms that can ultimately be run or executed by the processor whether in source object machine or other form. Examples of executable programs include for example a compiled program that can be translated into a machine code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor source code that can be expressed in an object code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that can be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive universal serial bus USB flash drive memory card optical disc e.g. compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory component.

In various embodiments the memory may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may include for example a RAM ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive USB flash drive memory card accessed via a memory card reader floppy disk accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tape accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory component or any combination thereof. In addition the RAM may include for example a static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and or other similar memory device. The ROM may include for example a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other similar memory device.

In addition the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel respectively or in combination. Thus the local interface may be an appropriate network or bus that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may include additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example a load balancer that performs load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

As discussed above the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller may be embodied in part by software or executable code components for execution by general purpose hardware. Alternatively the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general specific and or dedicated purpose hardware. If embodied in such hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine for example that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart or process diagrams in are representative of certain processes functionality and operations of embodiments discussed herein. Each block may represent one or a combination of steps or executions in a process. Alternatively or additionally each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that includes program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that includes human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that includes numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as the processor . The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. Further each block may represent or be connected with a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement a certain logical function or process step.

Although the flowchart or process diagrams in illustrate a certain order it is understood that the order may differ from that which is depicted. For example an order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. In addition two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped omitted or replaced. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In addition any logic or application described herein including the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller that are embodied at least in part by software or executable code components may be embodied or stored in any tangible or non transitory computer readable medium or device for execution by an instruction execution system such as a general purpose processor. In this sense the logic may be embodied as for example software or executable code components that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. Thus the instruction execution system may be directed by execution of the instructions to perform certain processes such as those illustrated in . In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any tangible medium that can contain store or maintain any logic application software or executable code component described herein for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can include any physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Additionally the computer readable medium may include a RAM including for example an SRAM DRAM or MRAM. In addition the computer readable medium may include a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Further any logic or application s described herein including the modular assembly controller and or the ground controller may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to be each present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

