---

title: Method and system for processing large scale emails and limiting resource consumption and interruption therefrom
abstract: Techniques for reducing and discouraging sending large scale emails are described herein. According to one embodiment, in response to a first email received from a sender to be sent to a list of recipients, a distribution cost of the first email is determined based on content of the first email and the recipients. An email client application is to present a first graphical user interface (GUI) page to the sender prompting a confirmation from the sender, where the first GUI page includes information indicating a size of the first email and a number of recipients, if the distribution cost of the first email is above a first predetermined threshold. In response to a positive confirmation from the sender, the first email is sent to the intended recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09559999&OS=09559999&RS=09559999
owner: EMC IP Holding Company LLC
number: 09559999
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to electronic mail email communications. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to reducing and discouraging the sending of large scale emails which may refer to the frequency number of recipients and or size of the emails.

Email has become an important method for communicating. Email systems typically include a server component e.g. Microsoft Exchange Server and a client component e.g. Microsoft Outlook or Microsoft Outlook Express . These components are typically software applications that are configured to execute on computing devices e.g. servers desktops laptops and mobile devices . Such email client applications allow users to draft email messages through a user interface and send the messages to recipients. Some email messages may contain files as attachments that are delivered to a recipient along with the message. An email attachment may be any file type including a spreadsheet a word processing document or a photograph. One or more files can be attached to a given email message. Attachments can vary in size typically ranging from a few bytes to twenty five megabytes.

Typically an email client allows a user as a sender to send an email with or without an attachment to a list of recipients. Each recipient can respond by replying to the sender individually or alternatively a recipient can also respond by replying to all of the recipients in the email thread also referred to as an email conversation using a reply all option provided by the email client. Email distribution lists and reply to all options are powerful email tools. As has been demonstrated many times this power sometimes results in people becoming the recipient of unwanted messages. The cost of these unwanted messages includes wasted bandwidth undesired interruptions and lost productivity.

For example someone recently sent a message to a few thousand employees of a large corporation asking for a particular presentation. Within a few minutes several people responded with a reply all usually attaching a presentation file or two in the 5 10 MB range. Later someone asked that people not forward large attachments to the entire group someone followed this up by suggesting some other ways to avoid sending large attachments. After a pause another person sent the entire list a note pointing out he would not reply to all with a presentation but he still replied to all with the news that he would not send one.

While it was not the worst reply all storm in terms of the number of messages the product of the per person data and the number of recipients is huge. It is estimated about 100 GB of traffic was sent in the space of an hour. In addition each of the thousands of employees was alerted in some fashion about each incoming mail. While reading and deleting the messages is not onerous some fraction of recipients undoubtedly got an email delivery alert specific to each of these messages. There is a lot of people to interrupt 5 10 times in the space of an hour or two over something which had little to no effect on their work. Further some of the recipients in the email thread may not be interested in receiving further emails on a topic which does not concern them. Such a large scale of email traffic and a large amount of data exchanged over a network can cause an unpleasant experience and unproductive working environment.

Some mail interfaces offer a mute or ignore option. For example in Gmail this means that a message with the same subject goes into all mail but bypasses the inbox for a period of time. However such messages cause certain interruption to a user until the user explicitly mutes and the ignored or muted messages would be sent over the network. A conventional email system includes a feature of displaying a small message indicating a number of recipients of a particular outgoing email. However such a message is typically displayed briefly and less likely catches a sender s attention. The sender can either ignore it or completely misses the displayed message. The message is displayed only based on the number of recipients and it does not take into the account of the size of the outgoing email.

Various embodiments and aspects of the inventions will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

According to some embodiments an email distribution system is utilized either at an email client an email server or both to reduce and or discourage sending a large scale email e.g. a large number of recipients and or a large attachment and or within a short period of time . In one embodiment in response to an email to be sent to a list of recipients e.g. a reply all email a distribution cost for distributing such an email is calculated based on a variety of factors or considerations associated with the email the sender of the email and or the recipients of the email.

In one aspect of the invention if the distribution cost is above a predetermined threshold prior to distributing the outgoing email a graphical user interface GUI such as a pop up dialog box or in a Web mail environment a specific Web page is automatically displayed prompting the sender to explicitly confirm sending such an email. In addition the GUI further displays information representing the size of the email and or the number of recipients that will receive the email. According to another aspect of the invention based on the distribution cost of sending a particular email such as a reply all email an approval from another user may be required in order for a particular sender to send such an email. According to another aspect of the invention if a large scale email is indeed being sent to a list of recipients certain measures or actions are put in place to reduce the network bandwidth and other processing resources required to handle such an email.

According to another aspect of the invention user interactions or behaviors of recipients with emails associated with an email conversation or thread are monitored and analyzed. Based on the analysis it is determined whether a particular recipient of the email thread is an active participant or an inactive participant. If it is determined that the recipient is inactive e.g. disinterested unimportant unresponsive the recipient is given an option or may be automatically converted to receive a digest or summary periodically in lieu of receiving every full email messages e.g. reply all emails of the email thread. The full email messages are archived in a predetermined storage location. As a result of this dynamic conversion to digest mode users who are less active in an email thread will encounter fewer disruptions and the organization will consume less network resources.

In one embodiment each of clients includes an email client executed therein. For example for the purpose of illustration client includes executed therein email client having email processing module and analysis module . Email processing module also referred to as an email user agent is responsible for sending and receiving emails to and from email server of server . Analysis module is configured to monitor and capture user interaction or user behaviors with respect to emails received and sent by email processing module . The user interaction or user behaviors may be stored locally or sent to email server to be stored therein in a centralized fashion. Similarly client may have the same or similar architecture as of client . Analysis module may be integrated within email client or alternatively as a plugin communicative coupled to email client via an application programming interface API where the analysis module may be developed by a third party provider.

Similarly email server includes email processing module analysis module distribution policies and user interaction heuristics . Email processing module may also be referred to as a message transfer agent responsible for routing emails amongst clients . Analysis module which may also be a plugin or an integrated component is configured to capture user interaction of users associated with clients and compile and store the information as part of user interaction heuristics . User interaction heuristics may be subsequently used to determine email distribution policies or rules .

An email client such as email client refers to an application or software component that is used to read write and send email. In simple terms it is the user interface to the email system. The client usually consists of a combination of a simple text editor address book filing cabinet and communications module. The text editor allows for the creation of the message itself and usually includes simple spell checking and formatting facilities. The ability to allow files or documents to be attached to the message is also available. For example a diagram or schematic could be attached to an email message offering the recipient the chance to see a project s progress and comment on it with a reply. The address book allows the users to store commonly used email addresses in an easy to get at format reducing the chance of addressing errors. The filing cabinet allows for the storage of email messages both sent and received and usually gives some form of search function allowing the easy retrieval of a desired message.

A mail server such as email server refers to an application or software component that receives email from email clients or other mail servers. It is the workhorse of the email system. A mail server usually consists of a storage area a set of user definable rules a list of users and a series of communication modules. The storage area is where mail is stored for local users and where messages that are in transit to another destination are temporarily stored. It usually takes the form of a simple database of information. The user defined rules determine how the mail server should react when determining the destination of a specific message or possibly react to the sender of the message. For example specific email addresses can be barred or certain users can be restricted to only sending messages within the company. The list of users is a database of user accounts that the mail server recognizes and will deal with locally. The communications modules are the components that actually handle the transfer of messages to and from other mail servers and email clients. Depending upon the requirements of the mail server there may be a number of different modules installed for use.

Email client may be Microsoft Outlook Eudora or any other well known email clients. Email server may be any kind of email servers such as a postal office protocol POP mail server or an Internet message access protocol IMAP mail server. Email client and email server may communicate with each other using a variety of mail messaging protocols such as the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP . Email server may be proprietary email server such as a Microsoft Exchange server. Alternatively email server may be a webmail server e.g. Gmail Yahoo Mail Hotmail Outlook where a user uses a browser as an email client to access the emails from a Web server as an email server.

According to some embodiments an analysis module of each of clients e.g. analysis module in conjunction with analysis module of email server is configured to work with each other in an attempt to avoid reduce and or discourage sending large scale emails to reduce the email processing resource burden for handling such large scale emails and to reduce the disruption of such a large scale email to the recipients. In one embodiment in response to an email to be sent to a list of recipients e.g. a reply all email a distribution cost for distributing such an email is calculated by analysis module and or analysis module based on a variety of factors or considerations associated with the email the sender of the email e.g. email client the recency of other emails and or the recipients of the email. For example the distribution cost may be determined based on the size of the email including attachments and or a number of recipients that will receive such an email. The distribution cost may be determined further based on sender s past interaction or behaviors with respect to an email conversation or email thread associated with the outgoing email in question. The distribution cost may be determined further based on feedbacks or ratings of the sender from other users collectively referred to as a reputation score of the sender. The distribution cost may be determined further based on how recently or frequently other messages have been sent to the same or similar recipient list. Alternatively instead of or in addition to adjusting the distribution cost a threshold may be dynamically adjusted in view of the recent email traffic. The above information is collectively referred to as user interaction heuristics which may be stored as part of heuristics at email server and some of which may be stored at a local store of client . The calculation of the distribution cost may be performed at the client side the server side or a combination of both.

In one embodiment of the invention if the distribution cost is above a predetermined threshold prior to distributing the outgoing email a graphical user interface GUI such as a pop up dialog box or in a Web mail environment a specific Web page is automatically displayed by email client to prompt the sender to explicitly confirm sending such an email. In addition the GUI further displays information representing the size of the email and or the number of recipients that will receive the email. Thus when the sender of client confirms via the GUI for sending the large scale email the email is intentionally sent and the sender is well aware of the impact of the email to the email community based on the size of the email and the number of the recipients. In one embodiment such a confirmation is only required in response to a reply all outgoing email for example after the number of reply all emails in the same email conversation or email thread exceeds a predetermined threshold e.g. zero . The confirmation is utilized to discourage the sender from sending a large scale email particularly a reply all email unless it is necessary or indeed intentional.

According to another embodiment of the invention based on the distribution cost of sending a particular email such as a reply all email an approval from another user may be required in order for a particular sender to send such an email. For example in response to an outgoing email to be sent to a list of recipients in an email thread if the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition a GUI is displayed at email client to prompt the sender to provide identifying information e.g. name or email address of a second user for approval of sending the email. A specific request for approval is then sent to the second user. Once the approval is received from the second user the email is sent to the recipients in the list. The sender is notified only if the request is denied. In one embodiment once the email has been approved to be sent to the recipients the outgoing email may further identify the approver. Such a mechanism is just another way to further discourage or make sure the sender is aware of sending a large scale email. The rationale behind this mechanism is that a sender and or an approver may give additional consideration to the result of sending or approving a large scale email.

According to another embodiment of the invention if a large scale email is indeed being sent to a list of recipients certain measures or actions are in placed to reduce the network bandwidth and other processing resources required to handle such an email. In one embodiment in response to a first email to be sent to a list of recipients the distribution cost of the sending such the first email is determined based on a variety of factors. If the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition at least a portion of the content is extracted from the first email and stored in a predetermined storage location. The first email is then transformed into a second email without the extracted portion of content. Instead the second email includes a link linking with the predetermined storage location. The second email is then sent to the recipients where the recipients can access the extracted content from the predetermined storage location via the link within the second email. The predetermined storage location may be accessible or sharable by the recipients. The storage location may be hosted by a third party storage provider and are accessible by all the recipients. According to another embodiment the email infrastructure may be integrated with an email archiving system such as SourceOne such that the extracted content is presented as a shortcut inside original mail while content is stored as a single instance in an email archiving system. The extracted content may be an attachment to the first email. As a result the second email is sent without the attachment or large amount of data associated with it and the required network and processing resources can be greatly reduced. The extracted content may include attachments and or lengthy text from the body of the first email which subsequently become accessible only from the link supplied in the second email.

According to another embodiment of the invention user interactions or behaviors of recipients with emails associated with an email conversation or thread are monitored and analyzed. Based on the analysis it is determined whether a particular recipient of the email thread is an active participant or an inactive participant. If it is determined that the recipient is inactive e.g. disinterested ignored unimportant the recipient is given an option to receive a digest or summary periodically in lieu of receiving every full email messages e.g. reply all emails of the email thread. The full email messages are archived in a predetermined storage location. Dependent upon the user preference and or an amount of activities of the email thread a digest may be delivered to the user periodically such as daily weekly or monthly etc. The digest includes a brief summary describing each of the emails received during the corresponding period of time. The digest further includes one or more links referencing to the predetermined storage location to allow the user to access the archived full email messages via the links. For example if there are 100 emails of a particular email thread received by a user during a week and if the user prefers to receive a digest once a week the user will receive one email having the digest therein instead of receiving 100 emails. As a result a user who is inactive will not be disrupted by the unwanted emails. Again some or all of the above operations can be performed at an email client an email server or both.

According to one embodiment in response to an email received via path composed by a sender via UI analysis module determines a distribution cost also referred to as a weighted recipient list or WRL based on information retrieved from distribution policy and heuristics . As described above the distribution cost may be determined based on a variety of factors. For example the distribution cost may be determined based on the size of the outgoing email including attachments and or a number of recipients that will receive such an email. The distribution cost may be determined further based on a sender s past interaction or behaviors with respect to an email conversation or email thread associated with the outgoing email in question which may be captured by user interaction monitor . The distribution cost may be determined further based on feedbacks or ratings of the sender from other users collectively referred to as a reputation score of the sender. The above information is collectively referred to as user interaction heuristics which may be stored as part of heuristics at email server and some of which may be stored at a local store such as database of email client .

In one embodiment of the invention if the distribution cost is above a predetermined threshold prior to distributing the outgoing email analysis module causes via path UI to display a graphical user interface GUI via path such as a pop up dialog box or in a Web mail environment a specific Web page to prompt the sender to explicitly confirm sending such an email. In addition the GUI further displays information representing the size of the email and or the number of recipients that will receive the email. Thus when the sender confirms from the GUI for sending the large scale email the email is intentionally sent and the sender is well aware of the impact of the email to the email community based on the size of the email and the number of the recipients. In response to an explicit confirmation received from UI via path the email is sent to email server via paths and to be distributed to the recipients in the list. In one embodiment the predetermined threshold may be different for different types or classes of senders. The predetermined threshold may be set to different values depending on the sender s role in an organization. For example a regular employee s threshold may be 25 a director may have a threshold of 100 a vice president may have a threshold of 500. Alternatively the threshold may be set using a predetermined formula or function based on the number of people reporting to or working for the sender in an organization. For example the threshold may be ratio number of reports constant i.e. 2.0 number of reports 25.

In one embodiment such a confirmation is only required in response to a reply all outgoing email for example after the number of reply all emails in the same email conversation or email thread exceeds a predetermined threshold. The confirmation is utilized to discourage the sender from sending a large scale email particularly a reply all email unless it is necessary or indeed intentional. The GUI presented to the user by UI may be modal dialog box or page that the sender has to either confirm or deny the transmission of the email. According to another embodiment analysis module also examines the earlier incoming email to which the outgoing email replies is the latest reply all email in the corresponding email thread. If the outgoing email is not responsive to the latest incoming email analysis module may cause GUI to display a GUI indicating that the outgoing email is not the one responsive to the latest email in the email thread and prompting the sender to confirm sending the outgoing email.

When a sender composes a reply email some conventional email systems may flag or indicate that the email being composed is not responsive to the most recent email of the email thread. According to one embodiment the determination of whether the email to be sent is responsive to the latest email is performed in response to a send command of the email and an explicit acknowledgement from the sender is required that a newer email has been viewed by the user. Thus the alert is not triggered until the sender commits sending the reply email.

In some situations there may be a race situation between receiving and sending out new emails by a particular sender of an email thread. Even if at the time the client contacts the server to send an email there is no recent message in conflict the server could have another message arrive at approximately the same instant. The email server picks one message to deliver and rejects the other to have the sender confirm it s still timely. But there can be starvation there if the sender is always a victim of other messages being delivered. According to one embodiment the server queues the outgoing email but contacts the sender to give the sender a chance to undo similar to Gmail s undo after send feature . If the sender does not undo within a short period of time the email will be delivered by the server and in any case no other reply is allowed to go out first once it has reserved its spot in the email thread. The rationale behind this approach is that with a wide distribution it does no one any good to have multiple responses that effectively repeat each other. So if a client knows of a more recent reply the user should be aware of that reply before sending more mail and if the server receives multiple replies it can serialize. According to a further embodiment even if a reply is in reply to a particular message the header of the outgoing message may be modified to indicate the most recent message seen by the client at the time it was transmitted. This prevents the server from having to guess whether a new message it distributed just before a reply justifies bouncing the reply back for another confirmation or is already known to the sender.

According to another embodiment if the number of reply all emails in the email thread exceed a predetermined threshold which may be indicated as part of the distribution cost the transmission of the outgoing email may be deferred for a predetermined period of time either by email client or email server . The deferral of the email effectively provides a cool down period to the recipients as some of the recipients may be emotionally replying to incoming email or be unfamiliar with such large volumes of email being distributed to them in such a short space of time. For example according to one embodiment the system either email client email server or both may detect that a number of emails of an email thread exchanged during a past predetermined period of time exceeds a threshold. In response the system may reject sending the outgoing email and return a message to sender indicating that the email cannot be sent at the point in time because of excessive activities in the email thread and that the sender can retry later. Alternatively as described above the system can queue the email for a period of time before sending it to the recipients. The system may further coalesce email messages that have the same or similar content e.g. several replies with the same attachment or several replies of don t reply to all messages . The system may also queue and delay a sender s message and later alert the sender if other messages have similar content and request a confirmation from the sender to resend. According to another embodiment a velocity of emails within an email thread is measured. If the velocity of the email thread exceeds a predetermined threshold an alert is issued to the sender. The velocity of the emails may be measured for example using a predefined function based on a number of email exchanged within a past predetermined period of time and the amount of data carried by the emails.

According to another embodiment when a large scale email is indeed being sent for example after the confirmation from the sender the email addresses of recipients in the list may be extracted from the TO field and CC field and inserted into the BCC field. As a result it makes it harder for a recipient to respond via a reply all email. In addition according to a particular embodiment information identifying the recipients e.g. names or email addresses may be inserted into the body of the outgoing email such that the recipients are aware who receives the email.

Note that the operations described above can be performed at an email client side or alternatively they can also be performed at an email server side as shown in . Referring to when an outgoing email e.g. reply all email is received via path to be sent to recipients email processing module simply forwards the email to email server via path . At email server analysis module performs actions similar those performed by analysis module at the client side as described above based on information stored in database which stores information similar to those stored in database as described above. When the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition email server transmits a request for confirmation via path which is forwarded to UI via path . In response UI displays a GUI via path to prompt the sender to explicitly confirm the transmission of the email. When the confirmation is received from UI via path the confirmation is forwarded to email server via path . In response to the confirmation email server sends the email to recipients via path . In this embodiment email server further performs other large scale email management functions as described above with respect to .

According to another embodiment in addition to displaying a GUI for confirmation of sending a large scale email an approval from a second user may be required dependent upon the specific configuration and or the associated distribution cost. are block diagrams illustrating an email system according to another embodiment of the invention. Referring to some of the components of email client such as GUI analysis modules user interaction monitor distribution policy and heuristics and email processing module have the same or similar functionalities of the counterpart components in .

According to one embodiment in response to an email received via path composed by a sender via UI analysis module determines a distribution cost based on information retrieved from distribution policy and heuristics . As described above the distribution cost may be determined based on a variety of factors. For example the distribution cost may be determined based on the size of the outgoing email including attachments and or a number of recipients that will receive such an email. The distribution cost may be determined further based on sender s past interaction or behaviors with respect to an email conversation or email thread associated with the outgoing email in question which may be captured by user interaction monitor . The distribution cost may be determined further based on feedback or ratings of the sender from other users collectively referred to as a reputation score of the sender. For instance a recipient who mutes a topic is voting against messages on that topic being distributed so that could make it more likely to reject or require extra approvals. This extra burden on future messages can apply to the topic the senders or both. Alternatively users could explicitly report a message to give negative feedback about the sender to be used for evaluating future emails. A preponderance of negative feedback can be used to set the threshold for a particular user such that future large scale mailings would be disallowed delayed or dependent upon explicit approvals. The above information is collectively referred to as user interaction heuristics which may be stored as part of heuristics at email server and some of which may be stored at a local store such as database of email client . The user interaction heuristics may be time based meaning that a user s rating fluctuates toward the average over time in the absence of further explicit updates to the information. For example a user might require additional approvals for a period of time then regain access to email directly. Additional negative feedback might increase the time during which the user is on probation or make the restrictions permanent.

If the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition analysis module sends a request for approver to UI via path . In response UI displays a GUI requesting the sender to provide an approver in order to send such an email. Once the sender provides the requested approver UI forwards the identifying information of an approver e.g. name email address to analysis module via path . Analysis module then sends an email to the approver in this example approver via path and forwarded by email server via path for approval of sending the email. Once the approval is received from approver via path email server transmits the approval via path back to email client . In response to the approval received from email server the email is then sent to email server via path and distributed by email server to recipients via path .

According to one embodiment approver may be any person selected by the sender of the email. Particularly approver may be any user within the same organization of the sender selected by the sender. Alternatively approver may be a designated person within the organization having the specific authorization for approving sending large scale emails. For example approver may be a manager or supervisor of the sender. According to another embodiment the approved email being sent to recipients further includes information identifying approver who has approved the outgoing email. As a result when sending a large scale email since another user is required to approve the sender may think twice before indeed sending the email. Similarly approver may also put in additional consideration before approving the email especially because their identity may be included in the email. As a result such a mechanism may further discourage users from sending large scale emails.

The above management actions are mainly performed at the email client side. The same or majority of the actions described above may also be performed at the email server side as shown in . Referring to in response to an email received from UI via path email processing module forwards the email to email server via path . Similar to analysis module in analysis module determines a distribution cost of sending the received email based on information provided by distribution policy and heuristics as described above. If the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition email server responds with a request for an approver from another user via path . The request for the approver is forwarded back to UI via path .

In response to the request for an approver UI displays a GUI prompting the sender to provider identifying information of an approver. The approver ID is then received by email processing module via path and forwarded to email server via path . Based on the approver ID email server looks up the email address of the approver for example using a directory service and sends a request for approval to approver via path . In response to an approval received from approver via path email server then distributes the email to the intended recipients via path . In this example the sender has an option to select an approver of his her choice.

Alternatively according to another embodiment email server can automatically identify and select one of the designated approvers in a pool which has been previously configured and stored in a database associated with email server. For example certain people with certain roles of an organization may be authorized to approve sending large scale emails. In this example the sender may not know who approved the email if the email has indeed been sent. However if the email is disapproved for sending the sender may be notified by the system optionally including an approver who disapproved the email. As described above the email being sent may further include for example in the header or body of the email identifying information identifying the corresponding approver.

According to another embodiment it could be automated similar to mailing list signups reply with a note containing a nonce asking that another person reply with that nonce to state it is seconded. When the email is sent it gets a header saying This message was sent to N people by John Doe approved by Mary Smith. In another embodiment instead of pop up warnings an email could be bounced back from the server to the sender requesting explicit acknowledgment for instance of corporate practices regarding email. Specific pre approved senders would be exempt from this extra check. In another embodiment the system can distinguish between sending an initial message to many recipients and replying to many recipients placing extra barriers such as pop up notices or bouncing a message and requiring explicit confirmation only when one is replying. In another embodiment the determination of what is appropriate could be managed via a rating system once people have built up goodwill via past exchanges or based on their position in an organization the need for a second approver could be bypassed or the threshold increased.

According to one embodiment in order to simplify the decision making process emails of an email thread may be tagged with different categories. Examples of the categories may include a restricted class a rate limit class a peer approval class and an open class. A restricted email can be sent by an approved sender e.g. employees of an organization . A rate limit email can be sent up to a predetermined number within a short period of time. A peer approval email requires a peer s approval before sending it to the recipients. An open email has no restriction. Based on the tags it is easier for the email client and or email server to decide what management action should be taken.

The techniques described above are designed to reduce and discourage sending large scale emails. However according to another embodiment of the invention if a large scale email is indeed being sent to a list of recipients for example after receiving the positive confirmation from the sender and or an approval from another user further optimization actions are performed to reduce the network bandwidth and other processing resources required to handle such a large scale email. In one embodiment in response to a first email to be sent to a list of recipients the distribution cost of the sending such the first email is determined based on a variety of factors. If the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition at least a portion of the content is extracted from the first email and stored in a predetermined storage location. The first email is then transformed into a second email without the extracted portion of content. Instead the second email includes a link linking with the predetermined storage location. The second email is then sent to the recipients where the recipients can access the extracted content from the predetermined storage location via the link within the second email. The predetermined storage location may be accessible or sharable by the recipients. The storage location may be hosted by a third party storage provider in which the recipients have privilege to access. The extracted content may be an attachment to the first email. As a result the second email is sent without the attachment or large amount of data associated with it and the required network and processing resources can be greatly reduced.

In addition email client transforms the first email into a second email that is without the content extracted from the first email and embeds a link within the second email that references to the predetermined storage location at storage server . The second email is then sent to email server via path which distributes the second email to recipients via path . From the link of the second email recipients can access the extracted content via path . Thus the email traffic involved in paths and will not have to carry the large amount of content that is originally part of the first email. As a result the network bandwidth and other processing resources required to handle such an email can be reduced as can storage consumption on the client computers. Note that the predetermined storage location has to be accessible to all of the recipients. Storage server may be hosted by a designated server within an organization or alternatively it can be provided by a third party storage provider. In one embodiment the optimization operations may be performed only to the reply all email messages of an email thread. Alternatively the optimization operations may be performed only when the number of emails in the email thread exceeds a predetermined threshold. Furthermore the optimization operations may be performed based on user configuration or settings. The extracted content stored at storage server may be periodically scanned and removed e.g. garbage collection for example if all referenced emails have been deleted by the end users assuming communications are established between storage server and email server concerning the references of emails to the stored content .

If the archived emails are associated with a single administrative domain e.g. same corporate domain then the garbage collection software can reference count or mark and sweep to identify when an attachment is no longer live. For Web mails there may be a need to establish a standard by which different mail servers can notify a repository that a message referencing an attachment has been removed. Some storage servers may remove content stored therein after a period of time. In one embodiment the message body and the attachment s of an email are teased apart. If a user gets the body he or she may find it irrelevant and delete without retrieving the attachments or he or she may retrieve the attachments. Doing so reconstitutes the message on the receiver s machine. After a predetermined number of days the attachments disappear.

The above optimization operations are mainly performed at the email client. Alternatively the optimization operations can also be performed at the email server as shown in . Referring to in response to a first email received from sender via path email client simply forwards the first the email to email server via path . Email server determines the distribution cost of sending the first email as described above. If the distribution cost satisfies a predetermined condition email server automatically extracts at least a portion of content of the first email and stores in a predetermined storage location for example as part of content of storage server via path . Email server then transforms the first email into a second email that is without the extracted content. The second email includes a link e.g. universal resource locator or URL referencing the predetermined storage location. The second email is then distributed to the intended recipients via path . From the link of the second email recipients can access the extracted content via path .

According to another embodiment certain recipients who are not active participants in the subject or topic associated with the email thread may be dynamically enabled to opt out of continuously receiving every incoming emails of the email thread. Instead such inactive recipients may receive a digest or summary describing the emails that are supposed to received by the recipients during a period of time. The digest or summary may be periodically delivered according to a digest delivery schedule which may be user configurable or automatically determined by the email system dependent upon the amount of traffic of the email thread. Such an arrangement can further reduce the email traffic across the network.

Based on the analysis the system e.g. client server or both determines whether a particular recipient of the email thread is an active participant or an inactive participant. If it is determined that the recipient is inactive e.g. disinterested unimportant based on the user actions with the received emails the recipient is given an option to receive a digest or summary periodically in lieu of receiving every full email messages e.g. reply all emails of the email thread. In this example as shown in it is assumed that client A is determined as an inactive participant while client B is determined as an active participant. Client A will be given an option to opt out of receiving every single full incoming email. Client A will be listed as a member of digest distribution list for a given topic.

The full email messages are archived in a predetermined storage location for example as part of archive messages stored in storage server . Dependent upon the user preference and or an amount of activities of the email thread a digest may be generated by digest generator and delivered by email processing module to the user e.g. client A periodically such as daily weekly or monthly etc. The digest includes a brief summary describing each of the emails received during the corresponding period of time. The digest further includes one or more links referencing to the predetermined storage location to allow the user to access the archived full email messages via the links. For example if there are 100 emails of a particular email thread received by a user during a week and if the user prefers to receive a digest once a week the user will receive one email having the digest therein instead of receiving 100 emails. As a result a user who is inactive will not be disrupted by the unwanted emails.

Whether a user is an active or inactive participant in the email thread can be determined based on a variety of different user actions. For example actions and inactions of a user include monitoring the topic by user and perhaps all users collectively the messages read and how quickly read responded to not acted upon and deleted unread. Once a user s activity level falls below a predetermined threshold according to one embodiment the user may receive an notification informing the user of this fact and offering the user to automatically be converted to receiving a periodic daily or weekly digest of all future messages on this topic. The notification may further contain several options for the user to 1 remain active where they would continue to receive emails as normal 2 convert to digest the default and 3 indicate this activity is no longer of interest and they wish to be removed from the distribution list and or no longer receive emails or digests.

If no action is taken the user may only receive these periodic digests. The digests may contain a summary of each email e.g. the first 200 characters of each message without attachments and a link to view the full content and attachments. Additionally the digest email may contain options to revert to active mode or be removed from the topic permanently. Administrative overrides such as never convert to digest mode may be provided as an option.

Some mail interfaces offer a mute or ignore option. For example in Gmail this means that a message with the same subject goes into all mail but bypasses the inbox for a period of time. If a user mute or ignore a particular email or email thread such an action can be interpreted that the user is not interested in the subject matter or topic of the email thread. One would proactively convert a mailing list or a topic within the mailing list to a digest so the user would see them but not be repeatedly interrupted. Another option is to provide the ability to temporarily drop off a mailing list while automatically resuming it after a cooling off period. That is mute all conversations rather than a specific subject. A further option is to provide the ability to mute based on specific keywords or mute everything except messages containing specific keywords.

Referring to in one embodiment system includes processor and peripheral interface also referred to herein as a chipset to couple various components to processor including memory and devices via a bus or an interconnect. Processor may represent a single processor or multiple processors with a single processor core or multiple processor cores included therein. Processor may represent one or more general purpose processors such as a microprocessor a central processing unit CPU or the like. More particularly processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor may also be one or more special purpose processors such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP a network processor a graphics processor a network processor a communications processor a cryptographic processor a co processor an embedded processor or any other type of logic capable of processing instructions. Processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

Peripheral interface may include memory control hub MCH and input output control hub ICH . Peripheral interface may include a memory controller not shown that communicates with a memory . Peripheral interface may also include a graphics interface that communicates with graphics subsystem which may include a display controller and or a display device. Peripheral interface may communicate with graphics device via an accelerated graphics port AGP a peripheral component interconnect PCI express bus or other types of interconnects.

An MCH is sometimes referred to as a Northbridge and an ICH is sometimes referred to as a Southbridge. As used herein the terms MCH ICH Northbridge and Southbridge are intended to be interpreted broadly to cover various chips who functions include passing interrupt signals toward a processor. In some embodiments the MCH may be integrated with processor . In such a configuration peripheral interface operates as an interface chip performing some functions of the MCH and ICH. Furthermore a graphics accelerator may be integrated within the MCH or processor .

Memory may include one or more volatile storage or memory devices such as random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM or other types of storage devices. Memory may store information including sequences of instructions that are executed by processor or any other device. For example executable code and or data of a variety of operating systems device drivers firmware e.g. input output basic system or BIOS and or applications can be loaded in memory and executed by processor . An operating system can be any kind of operating systems such as for example Windows operating system from Microsoft Mac OS iOS from Apple Android from Google Linux Unix or other real time or embedded operating systems such as VxWorks.

Peripheral interface may provide an interface to IO devices such as devices including wireless transceiver s input device s audio IO device s and other IO devices . Wireless transceiver may be a WiFi transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a WiMax transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver a satellite transceiver e.g. a global positioning system GPS transceiver or a combination thereof. Input device s may include a mouse a touch pad a touch sensitive screen which may be integrated with display device a pointer device such as a stylus and or a keyboard e.g. physical keyboard or a virtual keyboard displayed as part of a touch sensitive screen . For example input device may include a touch screen controller coupled to a touch screen. The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen.

Audio IO may include a speaker and or a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and or telephony functions. Other optional devices may include a storage device e.g. a hard drive a flash memory device universal serial bus USB port s parallel port s serial port s a printer a network interface a bus bridge e.g. a PCI PCI bridge sensor s e.g. a motion sensor a light sensor a proximity sensor etc. or a combination thereof. Optional devices may further include an imaging processing subsystem e.g. a camera which may include an optical sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Note that while illustrates various components of a data processing system it is not intended to represent any particular architecture or manner of interconnecting the components as such details are not germane to embodiments of the present invention. It will also be appreciated that network computers handheld computers mobile phones and other data processing systems which have fewer components or perhaps more components may also be used with embodiments of the invention.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such a computer program is stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices .

The processes or methods depicted in the preceding figures may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software e.g. embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium or a combination of both. Although the processes or methods are described above in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

