---

title: System and method for hybrid local tomography image reconstruction
abstract: Methods, processes and systems of image reconstruction utilizing a hybrid local tomography (HLT) methodology for reconstructing internal body images in medical applications, and the like. The system and method of the present invention provides an image with emphasized edges, and the image provides estimations of the attenuation coefficient inside the object being scanned.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09042626&OS=09042626&RS=09042626
owner: iTomography Corporation
number: 09042626
owner_city: Barker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141201
---
This invention was made with government support under NSF National Science Foundation award DMS 0806304 and DMS 1211164. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This application claims priority to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 080 099 entitled Variable Filter Length Local Tomography filed Nov. 14 2013 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 722 383 entitled Variable Filter Length Local Tomography filed Dec. 20 2012 the contents of which are herein incorporated in their entirety.

This invention relates to image reconstruction and in particular to methods and systems of Computed Tomography CT enhanced image reconstruction using a new Hybrid Local Tomography HLT method which is based on Local Tomography LT and conventional tomography techniques for reconstructing internal body images in medical applications and the like.

Recognition of the dangers of ionizing radiation has become more focused over time. The recent focus on reducing dose became more urgent with the advent of cardiac Computed Tomography CT . See for example Raff G. L. Radiation dose from coronary CT angiography Five years of progress. Journal of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography 2010 4 365 374. These are inherently high dose procedures. Attempts to reduce dose include adaptive iterative reconstructions and modulating the tube potential during the scan.

See for example Sato J. M. Akahane S. Inano et al. Effect of radiation dose and adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction on image quality of pulmonary computed tomography Jpn J Radiol 2012 30 146 153 and Park Y J Kim J W Lee et al. Automatic Tube Potential Selection with Tube Current Modulation APSCM in coronary CT angiography Comparison of image quality and radiation dose with conventional body mass index based protocol Journal of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography 2012 6 184 190.

Suppose one is interested in reconstructing a region of interest ROI inside a patient. In a particular case the ROI may be in the cardiac region. Conventional also known as global reconstruction requires that the entire cross section of the patient be irradiated. This means that during the scan one has to transmit x rays through parts of the patient located far from the ROI. In the past 10 15 years a group of algorithms called Local Tomography LT was developed. See for example Ramm A. and A. Katsevich The Radon transform and local tomography CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1996 and Katsevich A. Improved cone beam local tomography Inverse Problems 22 2006 627 643.

The main idea of LT is based on transmitting only those X rays through the patient that intersect the ROI inside the patient. The X rays that do not pass through the ROI are blocked from reaching the patient which results in a reduction of the dose of a CT scan.

Conventional CT reconstructs the distribution of the x ray attenuation coefficient inside the object being scanned. Normally is measured in Hounsfield units. LT computes not but B where B is some operator that enhances singularities of e.g. edges . Thus the information about the actual values of inside the ROI is not recovered.

In two dimensions the main mathematical basis for LT is provided by the following two formulas A and B 

where tilde over f is the Fourier transform of f Fis the inverse Fourier transform and g represents the CT data.

The fact that the first formula A contains only one integral demonstrates that LT reconstruction is local. The presence of the growing factor in the second formula proves that LT enhances edges. The useful property of LT which also follows from the second equation is that it preserves all geometric features inside the ROI. In other words the sharp features of e.g. location of edges coincide with sharp features of B . See for example Ramm A. and A. Katsevich The Radon transform and local tomography CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1996 and Faridani A. K. Buglione P. Huabsomboon et al. Introduction to local tomography Radon transforms and tomography Contemp. Math. 278 Amer. Math. Soc 2001 pp. 29 47. Thus in some sense LT is close to the gradient of the true image f.

In the cone beam setting e.g. in helical scanning the situation is more complicated. The reason is that B may add sharp features that are not present in . See for example Katsevich A. Cone beam local tomography SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics 1999 2224 2246. This manifests itself as artifacts. However it was shown by one of the subject inventors that by choosing an appropriate direction of filtering one can significantly reduce the strength of the artifacts and potentially reduce dose. See for example Katsevich A. Improved cone beam local tomography Inverse Problems 22 2006 627 643.

In classical cone beam LT the convolution kernel is very short because it is equivalent to computing some kind of derivative on the detector. See for example Louis A. K. and P. Maass Contour reconstruction in 3 D X ray CT IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 12 1993 764 769 and Katsevich A. Improved cone beam local tomography Inverse Problems 22 2006 627 643.

A main disadvantage of LT is that LT images look different from conventional CT images which may result in a loss of diagnostic information. Since LT emphasizes edges and does not reconstruct in Hounsfield units HU it is sometimes hard to differentiate between tissue types and even see the presence of the X ray contrast agent in the blood.

Thus a need exists in the art for a system and method for the reconstruction of images having emphasized edges in which the reconstructed image also includes information about the actual values of the attenuation coefficient inside the object being scanned.

The present invention provides methods processes and systems for image reconstruction of internal body images in medical applications and the like which allows for both differentiation between tissue types and for the detection of the presence of the X ray contrast agent in the blood.

An objective of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide methods processes and systems for image reconstruction of internal body images in medical applications and the like that uses less radiation less x rays to target body areas for image reconstruction than prior art techniques.

An objective of another embodiment of the present invention is to provide methods processes and systems for reconstruction of images of object s interior in medical applications and the like that provides estimates of the values of the attenuation coefficient inside the object being scanned.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for reconstructing an image of a region of interest ROI of an object the image including a distribution of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI which includes scanning an object to collect cone beam CB projection data of the object the CB projection data provided to a computer by at least one detector. The method further includes reconstructing a conventional image of the ROI using the CB projection data the conventional image of the ROI comprising the distribution of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI and reconstructing an LT image of the ROI using the CB projection data the LT image of the ROI comprising emphasized edges of the ROI. After the LT image and the conventional image of the ROI have been reconstructed the method further includes computing a high pass filtered LT image of the ROI from the LT image of the ROI identifying a first balancing constant or function and computing a summation of the conventional image of the ROI and a product of the first balancing constant or function and the high pass filtered LT image of the ROI to reconstruct a first image of the ROI of the object the first image of the ROI including the values of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI.

In an additional embodiment the method of the present invention may further include computing a low pass filtered conventional image of the ROI from the conventional image of the ROI identifying a second balancing constant or function and computing a summation of the conventional image of the ROI and a product of the second balancing constant or function and the high pass filtered LT image of the ROI to reconstruct a second image of the ROI of the object the second image including the values of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI.

The first image of the ROI and the second image of the ROI may then be compared to identify the better quality image resulting from the method of the present invention.

In an additional embodiment the present invention provides a system including a scanner and a computer configured for performing the method of the present invention as described.

The present invention provides a system and method for the reconstruction of images having emphasized edges in which the reconstructed image also include information about the actual values of the distribution of the attenuation coefficient inside the object being scanned.

The following detailed description of the presently preferred embodiments which are illustrated schematically in the accompanying drawings.

It is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its applications to the details of the particular arrangements shown since the invention is capable of other embodiments. Also the terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation.

One of the subject inventors Dr. Alexander Katsevich has patented image reconstruction that includes LT. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 539 800 5 550 892 5 717 211 all to Katsevich which in their entirety are all incorporated by reference. Additionally Dr. Katsevich has patented an invention in cone beam LT. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 590 216 to Katsevich which in its entirety is also incorporated by reference. The prior patents include but are not limited to collecting cone beam CB projection data from at least one detector in order to reconstruct images of an object.

The subject invention can use the same equipment described in these patents with a novel computer run algorithm which is described below.

For the subject invention the mathematical description of the algorithm is given by the following formula 1.1 where s is a parameter along the source trajectory fis the image to be reconstructed x is a reconstruction point K u is a reconstruction kernel w s x is a weight function u and v are row and column coordinates on the detector respectively u s x and v s x are the row and column coordinates of the projection of a reconstruction point x on the detector corresponding to the source position y s and Dis the cone beam data. In discrete form equation 1.1 can be written as follows 

The LT is quite flexible and a wide variety of weight functions and reconstruction kernels is possible. For example we can choose

where R is the radius of the helix x xare the in plane coordinates of a reconstruction point and y s y s are the in plane coordinates of the current source position y s .

The interval of integration in 1.1 and correspondingly the range of summation in 1.2 may depend on the specifics of the image reconstruction problem. In the case of cardiac CT when image reconstruction at a certain cardiac phase is required the weight function w s x will include additional factors that go to zero farther away from the desired phase. More generally the weight function may include factors that go to zero near the detector boundary to reduce data truncation artifacts. The cone beam data D s u v are measured by the detector at a discrete set of points u ui v vi where idenotes the index of a detector row and idenotes the index of a detector column. Thus in what follows for simplicity the detector data are denoted D s i i .

As stated equation 1.1 does not involve weighting of the CB data D s u v prior to convolution. Other embodiments of the algorithm are possible in which the CB data are multiplied by a weight factor prior to the convolution. Regardless of whether the CB data are weighted prior to convolution or not in both cases we say that the CB data are filtered.

The filter K j of the present invention is similar to the filter described by equation 6 in Z. Chen Local volume reconstruction from width truncated cone beam projections by convolution backprojection Optical Engineering volume 47 2008 issue 1. The main difference between the two filters is the value of K 0 . As is known the filter needs to satisfy the equation

The filter in equation 1.3 satisfies equation 1.4 . In an effort to make reconstruction from truncated data as close to conventional reconstruction as possible in paper Z. Chen Local volume reconstruction from width truncated cone beam projections by convolution backprojection Optical Engineering volume 47 2008 issue 1 the author truncates the conventional filter at some length and keeps all other filter values the same. Consequently as the filter length n becomes increasingly small the filter in Z. Chen Local volume reconstruction from width truncated cone beam projections by convolution backprojection Optical Engineering volume 47 2008 issue 1 violates equation 1.4 more strongly and the corresponding reconstructions become increasingly worse as confirmed by the following quote from the paper . . . a short kernel incurs a large error as revealed in

Conceptually the main difference between the approach in Z. Chen Local volume reconstruction from width truncated cone beam projections by convolution backprojection Optical Engineering volume 47 2008 issue 1 and the approach in the present invention is that the former attempts to make reconstruction from truncated data as close to conventional reconstruction as possible which in particular necessitates the use of data extrapolation. In the present invention the goal is to come up with an image that only looks qualitatively similar to conventional reconstruction. In particular the algorithm of the present invention can be used with non truncated data as well.

In a first embodiment of the present invention a novel variable filter length LT method is described for the reconstruction of an image of an object. is a flowchart illustrating the steps for reconstruction using variable length tomography in accordance with this first embodiment of the present invention. With reference to at step the current CB cone beam projection D s u v is collected and loaded into computer memory. It is assumed that this CB projection corresponds to the source position y s . The detector surface corresponding to the x ray source located at y s is denoted DP s . Filtering is performed at step wherein for each detector row convolve the data with a filter. Let ibe the index of a detector row ibe the index of a detector column and let D s i i be the CB projection data in the i i location on the detector. We use the following equation cf. equation 1.2 

By itself the filtering step is well known in the field and can be implemented for example as shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 881 123 to Tam which is incorporated by reference. Alternative implementation of the convolution can be based on the Fast Fourier Transform FFT .

Following the filtering of the data backprojection of the filtered data is performed wherein a reconstruction point x is fixed which represents a point inside the patient where it is required to reconstruct the image. Next the projection circumflex over x of x onto the detector surface DP s Let i i is found to be the row and column coordinates of circumflex over x on the detector. If circumflex over x projects onto the detector the said filtered CB data affects the image at x and additional steps are performed. If circumflex over x projects outside the detector then the said filtered CB data are not used for image reconstruction at x. In this case another reconstruction point is chosen and the reconstruction is restarted.

As previously stated if circumflex over x projects onto the detector the filtered CB data affects the image at x and additional steps are performed which include identify the rows and columns on the detector that are close to the projection circumflex over x . This will give a few values of g s i i for i i close to i i . Following identification of the rows and columns the method includes and interpolation estimate of the value of g s i i from the said values of g s i i for i i close to i i and a computation of the contribution from the filtered CB data to the image being reconstructed at the point x by multiplying g s i i by a weight function w s x . Next the contribution to the image being reconstructed at the point x according to a pre selected scheme for example the Trapezoidal scheme for approximate evaluation of the integral in equation 1.1 according to 1.2 . Following this step a different reconstruction point is chosen the next CB projection is loaded into computer memory and the reconstruction of the images continues.

At the image can be displayed at all reconstruction points x for which the image reconstruction process has been completed that is all the subsequent CB projections are not needed for reconstructing the image at those points . Discard from the computer memory all the CB projections that are not needed for image reconstruction at points where the image reconstruction process has not completed. The algorithm concludes when the scan is finished or the image reconstruction process has completed at all the required points.

As is seen from the description of the methods steps illustrated in the variable filter length LT algorithm of the first embodiment of the present invention is computationally efficient. It contains steps like filtering backprojection multiplication by a weight function and the like. Most importantly for each source position the filtering on the detector is performed along a one parametric family of curves. In contrast the algorithms of prior art that reconstruct images from truncated data are generally computationally expensive in view of the extra computer power time and memory needed. The invention can consist of minimal steps that do not require the extra computer power time and memory needed. For example filtered back projection is an example of an algorithm that only requires minimal extra steps in addition to filtering and backprojection to operate. The minimal steps can include but are not limited to multiplication of data non filtered and filtered by a weight function linear interpolation smoothing and the like. The variable filter length LT algorithm described in the first embodiment of the present invention does not include any iterative steps filling in of the missing data using wavelets curvelets and the like.

A study of image reconstruction using the novel variable filter length LT algorithm occurred at the Texas Medical Center in Houston. The first part of this study was retrospective analysis of patients comparing anatomy on selected slices of the coronary computed tomography angiogram CCTA with reconstructions using LT tomography at the same level s . Subsequently to test the feasibility of viewing anatomy that was comparable on the two types of reconstructions other subjects who would consent were prospectively recruited from all patients that presented to the hospital CT scanner in whom a cardiac computed tomography angiogram was ordered by the referring physician.

Following patient consent scans were obtained on a CB CT scanner utilizing helical scanning and dose modulated retrospective ECG gating. The contrast agent was utilized.

For all cases raw CT data was stripped of identifying information assigned a study number and transferred to an external hard drive for subsequent analysis by the variable filter length LT algorithm of the first embodiment of the present invention. In a parallel fashion the scanner raw CT data was processed and reconstructed in a routine manner and transferred to a CT visualization workstation for review and clinical reading and report by a radiologist or cardiologist responsible for the normal workflow. For the study this reconstructed data was also stripped of patient identifiers and used for the study. Two experienced readers compared the variable filter length LT images and the conventional CT images for diagnostic accuracy spatial resolution and contrast resolution and an assessment of whether all lesions seen on the conventional CTA were identified by the variable filter length LT reconstructed images.

An estimate was made about the range of potential radiation dose savings based upon the individual geometry of the scan regions of interest.

Feedback from the two experienced readers from the Texas Medical Center showed that the variable filter length LT of the present invention provides excellent anatomical rendering including differentiation of tissue types and the contrast is clearly visible as well. These results show that the variable filter length LT of the first embodiment of the present invention has the potential to decrease radiation by 50 .

Although the invention is primarily directed to image reconstruction of internal body images of cardiac and other organs body parts the invention can be used in other applications. For example the novel algorithm can be used for security screening and non destructive evaluation of cargo at airports and shipping ports. The invention can be used for scanning small and large machine parts for defects. The invention can further be used in wood working applications to determine the location of knots and cracks.

The algorithm in accordance with the variable filter length LT embodiment of the invention reconstructs an image at a reconstruction point x using tomographic data corresponding to integrals along lines passing through a neighborhood of x. Therefore the algorithm is suitable for reconstructing a region of interest inside an object from truncated data. On the other hand the algorithm can be used for reconstructing the entire object from non truncated data since it can visualize certain features inside the object better than the traditional theoretically exact methods iterative and non iterative .

As discussed in the background of the invention a main disadvantage of prior art LT techniques including the variable filter length LT embodiment of the present invention is that LT images look different from conventional i.e. global CT images which may result in a loss of diagnostic information. While LT algorithms such as the variable filter length LT method of the first embodiment of the present invention provide edge enhanced image reconstruction in CT and have the advantage of being very efficient by employing filtered backprojection FBP techniques a disadvantage of LT is that the attenuation coefficient in Hounsfield units HU is not reconstructed in LT. Since the true HU values are not reconstructed when LT techniques are employed it is sometimes hard to differentiate between tissue types and even to see the presence of the X ray contrast agent in the blood.

In accordance with an additional embodiment of the present invention a system and method for the reconstruction of images having emphasized edges in which the reconstructed image also includes information about the actual values of the distribution of the attenuation coefficient inside the object is provided. The present invention proposes an additional embodiment in which a Hybrid Local Tomography HLT algorithm provides edge enhanced reconstruction while also providing fairly accurate HU values. The main idea of the proposed algorithm of this second embodiment is the novel combination of a conventional reconstruction with an LT based reconstruction.

In an exemplary embodiment of the HLT reconstruction method in accordance with the present invention let f x denote an image reconstructed by a conventional i.e. exact or quasi exact algorithm. Such an algorithm can be based on but not limited to an iterative based reconstruction algorithm or an FBP reconstruction algorithm. Let f x denote the reconstructed LT image wherein f x is computed using the formula 1.2 as previously presented. Following the LT theory fpreserves and enhances all the edges or features with high spatial frequency content visible from the data in the object being scanned. On the other hand the low frequency features contained in fcarry little useful information regarding edges or sharp changes of the attenuation coefficient and may even create artifacts in LT based images. Hence it is proposed to remove or attenuate low frequency content from f. As such let be the result of applying a high pass filter to fin the image domain 1.6 where is a high pass filter and the star denotes convolution in the image domain.

A first hybrid reconstruction formula proposed is 1.7 where c 0 is some balancing constant or function.

In order to provide a higher quality image using f one needs to balance the frequency contents of fand and the impact of c. The optimal value or shape of c can be determined using for example synthetic simulations and or multiple case studies. In a particular embodiment an expert opinion can be used to find the best value of c . Since human bodies are rather similar an optimal predetermined value of c is appropriate in many cases.

Various methods may be used to determine the optimal value or shape of c for reconstructing an HLT image. In one embodiment c may be determined automatically during the actual reconstruction of the images by using a predetermined mathematical algorithm. In an additional embodiment predetermined possible choices for c may be prepared prior to the actual reconstruction and a user will be responsible for selecting the best value of c for the particular application from the predetermined possible choices of c . In this embodiment it is envisioned that there will be different values of c for imaging of bones heart lungs etc. In another embodiment the value of c can be adjusted by the user during the actual reconstruction of the HLT images.

The frequency content or spectrum of fdepends on the reconstruction algorithm. If fis computed using an iterative algorithm then the spectrum of fdepends on the strength of regularization number of iterations achieved convergence number type of basis functions used etc. If fis computed using an FBP type algorithm the spectrum of fdepends on data filtration the reconstruction kernel etc.

In this specific embodiment since fis computed using an FBP algorithm the main factors affecting the spectrum of are data filtration filter length L in 1.3 and the high pass filter in 1.6 .

In an additional embodiment to reduce a possible misbalance of high frequency data generated by both a conventional and an LT based algorithm an additional filtering step for fproposed in which 1.8 where is a low pass filter kernel.

Following the additional filtering step a second hybrid reconstruction formula is proposed in which 1.9 

The value of c in the second HLT reconstruction formula 1.9 may be the same value or a different value than the value of c used in the first HLT reconstruction formula 1.7 .

With reference to the method of the present invention includes scanning an object to collect cone beam CB projection data of the object under study being scanned and providing the CB projection data to a computer by at least one detector . After the CB projection data has been received by the computer the method continues by computing a conventional image of the region of interest ROI using the CB projection data wherein the conventional image of the ROI comprises the values of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI . The method further includes computing an LT image of the ROI using the CB projection data wherein the LT image of the ROI comprises emphasized edges of the ROI . In one embodiment the high pass filtered LT image may be computed in a single step. In an alternative embodiment the high pass filtered LT image may be computed by first reconstructing the LT image from the CB projection data and then filtering the reconstructed LT image using a high pass filter to generate the high pass filtered LT image. After the LT image and the conventional image of the ROI have been reconstructed the method further includes identifying a first balancing constant or function and computing a summation of the conventional image of the ROI and a product of the first balancing constant or function and the high pass filtered LT image of the ROI to reconstruct a first HLT image of the ROI of the object the first HLT image of the ROI including the values of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI . The values of the attenuation coefficient included in the first image of the ROI generated by the HLT method of the present invention provides HU values that are close to the true values.

In an additional embodiment the method of the present invention may further include computing a low pass filtered conventional image of the ROI from the conventional image of the ROI identifying a second balancing constant or function and computing a summation of the low pass filtered conventional image of the ROI and a product of the second balancing constant or function and the high pass filtered LT image of the ROI to reconstruct a second HLT image of the ROI of the object the second HLT image including the values of the attenuation coefficient of the ROI . The values of the attenuation coefficient included in the second HLT image of the ROI generated by the hybrid LT method of the present invention provides HU values that are close to the true values. In one embodiment the low pass filtered conventional image may be computed in a single step. In an alternative embodiment the low pass filtered conventional image may be computed by first reconstructing the conventional image from the CB projection data and then filtering the reconstructed conventional image using a low pass filter to generate the low pass filtered conventional image.

The enhanced first HLT image and second HLT image of the ROI resulting from the method of the present invention may be provided as output and a comparison of the two images volumes may be performed to identify the highest quality HLT image of an object being scanned.

In an additional embodiment the method of the present invention may include an additional data filtering step prior to reconstructing the conventional image and or LT image of the ROI wherein the filtering step includes performing raw CT data filtration to remove random and or sensor noise. This pre image reconstruction technique may be applied to the real raw CT data acquired by the CT scanner at any stage prior to the beginning of the image reconstruction step.

In a particular embodiment the variable filter length LT method of the first embodiment of the present invention may be used for the reconstruction of the LT based image of the ROI to be used in the HLT image reconstruction method embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment post reconstruction image enhancement may be performed in which additional iterative image enhancement of the first image and or the second HLT image of the ROI may be performed using a regularization algorithm.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a first HLT image is reconstructed and the results of the freconstruction from a simulated data set are presented in . In this exemplary embodiment the low pass filtering step described by 1.8 to compute fhas been omitted.

In the exemplary embodiment a bilateral filtration algorithm was used to filter the raw CB projection data to remove random and or sensor noise. The reconstruction of the conventional image of the fwas performed by an iterative algorithm of D. Kim S. Ramani and J. A. Fessler Accelerating X ray CT ordered subsets image reconstruction with Nesterov s first order methods Proceedings of The 12th International Meeting on Fully Three Dimensional Image Reconstruction in Radiology and Nuclear Medicine 2013 pp. 22 25 wherein the number of subsets was selected to be 10 and 120 sub iterations i.e. 12 full iterations were specified. The reconstruction of the LT image fwas performed using variable filter length LT techniques as previously described with reference to the variable filter length LT embodiment of the present invention and the filter previously described in equation 1.3 with L 1. To compute the filtered LT image the high pass filter co in 1.6 was chosen to be the identity minus a moving average over a cube of size 7 7 7 voxels. To calculate the first HLT image f the value of c was chosen to be a constant equal to 2100. In the exemplary embodiment iterative image enhancement based on Total Variation denoising was also applied post reconstruction

An analysis of the results of the exemplary embodiment show that HU values in the HLT reconstructed volume fare close to the true ones. show various intermediate functions constructed by the algorithm and shows the final HLT reconstruction. Simulated data with added Poisson random noise was used for the exemplary embodiment. The phantom is the superposition of ellipsoids of various constant attenuations.

The average value of the attenuation coefficient for each of the rectangles identified with reference to are computed and the average computed values for the attenuation coefficients HU values are 1.023 1.329 and 1.319 in squares 1 2 and 3 respectively. Knowing that the correct HU values are 1.0 1.3 and 1.3 respectively. It is shown that the estimated values of the attenuation coefficient derived from the final reconstructed volume fin accordance with the hybrid local tomography HLT reconstruction method of the present invention are approximately equal to the true expected values.

Note that other embodiments of the present invention are possible in which the low pass filtered raw CT data based conventional reconstruction and or the high pass filtered raw CT data based LT image are computed not by applying an appropriate filter to an appropriate volume in the image domain but by applying the appropriate processing steps in the CT data domain. In this embodiment in some cases no filtering in the image domain may be required.

The present invention may be embodied on various computing platforms that perform actions responsive to software based instructions. The following provides an antecedent basis for the information technology that may be utilized to enable the invention.

The computer readable medium described in the claims below may be a computer readable signal data medium or a computer readable data storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires or wireless connection a portable computer diskette or other data storage device a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device other data storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal data medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal data medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable data medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable radio frequency etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java C C Fortran scripting languages or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Back projection updating use of a backprojection algorithm for reconstruction of an image. Generally backprojection refers to the step of using projection data for updating the image volume being reconstructed.

Computer a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a set of arithmetic or logical operations.

Cone beam CB projection data two dimensional data provided by a detector array integral to a computed tomography CT imaging system.

Curvelets a higher dimensional generalization of the wavelet transform designed to represent images at different scales and different angles.

Filtering a mathematical process by which one two or higher dimensional data arrays are transformed with the purpose of changing the frequency content of the said arrays. Those purposes may include but are not limited to suppression of noise and smoothing edge enhancement and resolution recovery.

High pass filter a filter that passes signals with a frequency higher than a certain cutoff frequency and attenuates signals with frequencies lower than the cutoff frequency.

Low pass filter a filter that passes signals with a frequency lower than a certain cutoff frequency and attenuates signals with frequencies higher than the cutoff frequency.

Ramp filter a high pass filter whose graph in the frequency domain looks like a linearly increasing ramp function. To avoid artifacts at the highest frequencies the ramp filter may go to zero in a smooth fashion.

Region of Interest ROI any subset inside the object being scanned which can be strictly smaller than the object or can even coincide with the object itself.

Truncated CB data CB data which is insufficient for theoretically exact reconstruction at a given point.

Hounsfield Unit HU a way to characterize radiation attenuation in different tissues which measures radiodensity and is a quantitative scale.

While the invention has been described disclosed illustrated and shown in various terms of certain embodiments or modifications which it has presumed in practice the scope of the invention is not intended to be nor should it be deemed to be limited thereby and such other modifications or embodiments as may be suggested by the teachings herein are particularly reserved especially as they fall within the breadth and scope of the claims here appended.

