---

title: Optically transparent, radio frequency, planar transmission lines
abstract: A high radio frequency transmission line having a dielectric substrate with two sides and constructed of a transparent material. An electrically conductive strip extends along at least a portion of one side of the substrate. An electrically conductive film is deposited on one of the sides of the substrate at a position spaced from the conductive strip. This conductive film has a thickness sufficiently small so that the film is substantially transparent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356331&OS=09356331&RS=09356331
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09356331
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140408
---
This patent application claims the benefit of provisional application U.S. 61 862 656 filed on Aug. 6 2013 ARL 13 34P and titled Sub Skin Depth Microfabricated Transmission Lines for Inconspicuous Communication Circuitry listing Dr. Ryan Christopher Toonen as inventor.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

It is well known that single electrical conductors such as wires are inadequate for conducting high frequency signals i.e. radio signals in the microwave or millimeter wave range. Such high frequency signals hereinafter collectively referred to as microwaves are used for many different types of applications such as radar and line of sight radio communication.

One previously known method of conveying microwave radio communications is to create a microwave transmission line. These previously known microwave transmission lines typically comprise a planar dielectric substrate having spaced apart upper and lower sides. The spacing between the upper and lower sides i.e. the thickness of the dielectric substrate will vary depending upon the operational radio frequency of the transmission line and the dielectric constant of the substrate.

In order to convey the microwave signal between two points on the substrate a highly electrically conductive microstrip extends between the two points on the substrate. The microstrip is typically constructed of a metal such as gold silver or copper and extends between the two points on the substrate. The thickness of the microstrip typically is greater than five skin depths corresponding to the operating frequency of the transmission line and in which one skin depth is the distance penetrating into a signal conductor at which the alternating current density has exponentially decayed to 1 e of the value at the surface of the signal conductor that faces ground. As such the microstrip is optically opaque. However the width of the microstrip as it extends between the two points on the dielectric substrate is typically very narrow.

In order to complete the transmission line a conductive ground plane is formed on the opposite side of the dielectric substrate. This conductive ground plane may also be constructed of a highly electrically conductive material such as gold silver or copper and for greatest efficiency preferably has a skin depth of greater than five skin depths corresponding to the operating frequency of the transmission line.

While these previously known microstrip transmission lines have proven effective in conveying microwave signals between different points in the microwave circuit the previously known practice of forming the ground plane from a relatively thick conductive material i.e. greater than five skin depths is that the resulting structure is necessarily opaque to visible light. As such the overall microstrip transmission line cannot be used for applications where transparency to visible light would be desirable. Such situations would include for example covert microwave antennas and other communication components.

The present invention provides a microwave transmission line that is substantially transparent to visible light. As such the transmission line of the present invention may be utilized in applications such as covert or windshield antennas where transparency to visible light is required.

In brief the microwave transmission line of the present invention comprises a dielectric substrate having two spaced apart planar and parallel upper and lower sides. The substrate itself is constructed of a material that is transparent to visible light. Such materials include for example sapphire quartz amorphous silicon dioxide glass as well as other materials.

In order to convey the microwave signal between two points on the substrate a conventional microstrip extends along the top of the substrate between the two points. This microstrip is conventional in construction and thus comprises a highly conductive material such as gold silver or copper and has an overall width greater than one skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line. Preferably the microstrip has a thickness greater than five skin depths at the operating frequency of the transmission line and is thus opaque to visible light. The actual width of the microstrip however is very small typically a millimeter or less and thus optically insignificant.

An electrically conductive film is then deposited on the upper or lower side of the substrate so that the electrically conductive film is spaced from the conductive strip. The electrically conductive film may be deposited on the side of the dielectric substrate opposite from the conductive strip or on the same side of the dielectric substrate as the conductive strip but spaced from the conductive strip.

Unlike the previously known microwave transmission lines however the electrically conductive film has a thickness sufficiently small so that the film is substantially transparent to visible light. The conductive film has a thickness less than one skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line and preferably approximately one fifth of the skin depth of the transmission line at its operating frequency.

Many different materials may be utilized to form the conductive film. However in the preferred embodiment of the invention nano structured materials such as exfoliated graphene networks of carbon nanotubes elemental metal ultrathin films nano wire grids transparent conducting oxide thin films transparent conducting polymer thin films or an encapsulated transparent conducting fluid are used for the conductive film. Ultrathin films are films having a thickness of not greater than 100 nanometers.

The conductive film may be disposed on the side of the substrate opposite from the conductive strip. Alternatively however the conductive film may be deposited on the same side of the dielectric substrate as the conductive strip. In this case however the conductive film is spaced from the conductive strip so that a continuous gap is formed between the conductive strip and the conductive film.

Because the conductive film is deposited on the substrate at a thickness of below the skin depth corresponding to the operating frequency of the transmission line the overall efficiency of the transmission line of the present invention is necessarily less than the previously known microwave transmission lines in which the ground plane was several skin depths in thickness. However unlike the previously known microwave transmission lines the conductive film is transparent or substantially transparent to visible light. Since the dielectric substrate is also transparent to visible light the entire transmission line structure is essentially transparent to visible light except for the conductive strip. However since the width of the conductive strip is very small typically less than a millimeter the opacity of the conductive strip provides only minimal interference with the overall transparency of the transmission line structure.

Since the transmission line of the present invention is substantially transparent to visible light it may be effectively used in applications such as covert microwave antennas as well as other microwave circuits.

With reference first to an exemplary transmission line in accordance with the present invention is shown. This transmission line is used to convey microwave signals between two points.

The transmission line includes a dielectric substrate that is generally planar having an upper side and a lower side . The sides and preferably are spaced apart and parallel to each other.

The dielectric substrate is transparent or at least substantially transparent to visible light and may be constructed of any conventional material. These materials include but are not limited to sapphire quartz amorphous silicon dioxide or glass transparent plastics such as Mylar Kapton and Plexiglas as well as other materials. The actual thickness of the dielectric substrate i.e. the distance between its top side and bottom side will vary as a function of the dielectric constant of the substrate as well as the expected operational frequency of the transmission line .

An elongated electrically conductive strip also known as a microstrip extends along one side of the substrate from a first point to a second point . The conductive strip may be constructed of any conventional conductive material but preferably a highly electrically conductive metal such as gold silver copper and alloys thereof are used for the conductive strip . Furthermore any conventional means may be used to attach the conductive strip to the substrate .

The width of the conductive strip i.e. the distance between its sides and will vary as a function of several factors including for example the characteristic impedance requirements of the transmission line . However the overall width of the conductive strip may be relatively small for example less than 1 millimeter for most microwave applications.

Still referring to a thin electrically conductive film is deposited over the second side of the dielectric substrate . This conductive film has a thickness of less than one skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line . Preferably the thickness of the conductive film is less than one half of a skin depth and as low as one fifth of a skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line .

The conductive film forms the ground plane for the transmission line and may be composed of a wide variety of materials. However preferably the conductive film comprises a nano structured material such as exfoliated graphene elemental metal ultrathin films nano wire grids carbon nano tube networks transparent conducting oxides conducting polymers and so forth.

For maximum efficiency i.e. minimal signal loss the conductive strip should have a thickness of at least five skin depths at the operating frequency of the transmission line. As such the conductive strip is opaque to visible light.

However since the thickness of the conductive film is very small i.e. less than one skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line the conductive film is transparent or at least substantially transparent to visible light. Thus as shown in the entire transmission line is substantially transparent except for the opaque conductive strip . However since the width of the conductive strip is so small typically a millimeter or less the visible interference of the conductive strip for the overall transmission line is minimal if noticeable at all.

With reference now to a modified transmission line is shown which as before includes a dielectric substrate as well as a highly conductive strip to convey the microwave signal. Both the strip as well as the dielectric constant have already been described in detail with respect to and those descriptions apply equally to and are incorporated by reference.

The transmission line in differs from the transmission line in in that the conductive film is deposited on the dielectric substrate on the same side of the substrate as the conductive film . The conductive film however is spaced from the conductive strip so that an air gap is formed along at least one and preferably both sides of the conductive strip and the conductive foil . The same type of materials used for the foil in are the same as the conductive foil in so that a further description thereof is unnecessary.

Since the conductive film which forms the ground plane for the transmission line is less than one skin depth in thickness at the operating frequency of the transmission line the transmission line of the present invention is necessarily less efficient than previously known transmission lines having ground planes which are several skin depths in thickness. However for many applications a decrease in efficiency and the resultant power loss are acceptable in view of the advantages obtained by a transparent or substantially transparent microwave transmission line. Such applications would include for example covert operations where hidden microwave antennas and other microwave circuitry are desired. Furthermore the overall efficiency of the transmission line of the present invention may be enhanced by increasing the thickness of the ground plane conductive film from for example 0.2 skin depths to just under one skin depth at the operating frequency of the transmission line. Such increase in the thickness of the conductive film however in turn reduces the transparency of the transmission line but the transmission line remains substantially transparent i.e. the visual image through the transmission line is dimmed but objects are still clearly identifiable. Consequently engineering optically transparent transmission lines involves compromise where enhancements in transparency are offset by increased power loss and vice versa. Material processing methods such as doping diffusion and annealing could be used as a means of controlling this trade off. For materials that exhibit the property of photoconductivity illumination with an external source of light could be used as a means of controlling this trade off. For materials whose conductivity is sensitive to environmental conditions control of the ambient temperature and humidity could be used as a means of controlling this trade off. For materials whose conductivity is sensitive to static electromagnetic fields control of an externally applied electric field or magnetic field could be used as a means of controlling this trade off.

With reference now to one other aspect of utilizing a ground plane having less than one skin depth in thickness of a highly conductive material is that the overall impedance of the transmission line increases as compared to the traditional transmission lines using both a thick ground plane and thick conductive strip and exhibits approximately a 50 ohm impedance. For example graph corresponds to a microstrip transmission line whose ground plane is sub skin depth but optically opaque due to the fact that an excellent conducting material is used . . . such as silver copper or gold . Graph represents the opaque limit and illustrates the variation of the absolute impedance Z as a function of w h i.e. the width w of the conductive strip height h or thickness of the substrate . Thus as shown by graph by properly manipulating the width of the conductive strip a standard impedance of about 50 ohms may be obtained that is a typical or target impedance of a microwave transmission line.

Graph corresponds to a microstrip transmission line whose ground plane is sub skin depth and optically transparent due to the fact that a material that is less conductive such as carbon nanotube mesh is used . Graph represents the transparent limit and illustrates the same property i.e. absolute impedance Z as a function of w h for a transmission line utilizing a thick film conductive strip but a thin film ground plane . As illustrated by graph the impedance for a transmission line in accordance with the present invention is an order of magnitude or more than the previously known transmission lines.

Even though the transmission line of the present invention exhibits a higher impedance than the typical values of previously known transmission lines the transmission line of the present invention may be still connected to a microwave circuit having a typically used value of transmission line characteristic impedance such as 50 ohm by simply utilizing an impedance matching network between the transmission line of the present invention and the remainder of the microwave circuit. The design of such impedance matching networks is well known and effectively minimizes the signal reflection between the transmission line of the present invention and other microwave circuitry having a different characteristic transmission line impedance.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a transmission line that is transparent or substantially transparent to visible light. As such it may be utilized in clandestine applications where inconspicuous electronics are required. For example the transmission lines of the present invention may be utilized for microwave communications in windshields goggles and so forth.

Having described our invention many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

