---

title: Computerized sharing of digital asset localization between organizations
abstract: A computerized system and method provides for sharing digital assets among multiple different organizations in a multi-organization system, and further providing that one or more of localized digital assets can be assembled using digital assets, templates and rules specified by different organizations. Further, the various organizations can contribute and share digital assets with organizations, while controlling the localization of the asset with brand or other information both as specified by the provider organization and as specified by the user organization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639551&OS=09639551&RS=09639551
owner: Fision Holdings, Inc.
number: 09639551
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140606
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 832 582 filed Jun. 7 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 833 795 filed Jun. 11 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 832 591 filed Jun. 7 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 833 826 filed Jun. 11 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 832 578 filed Jun. 7 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 833 832 filed Jun. 11 2013 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing within a network based system and more specifically to systems and methods for sharing digital assets such as information or marketing assets among organizations.

The creation and sharing of digital assets for example information or marketing assets can be a logistically challenging and or inefficient activity for many organizations. These challenges and or inefficiencies may be due to differences in the needs of the users for localization of the assets due for example to differences in geographic locations differences in the subject products or services differences in channels differences in branding requirements and or differences in legal compliance requirements.

A computerized system may receive digital assets and digital asset build rules from a plurality of organizations wherein some or all of the organizations can specify rules and information so that one or more localized digital assets can be generated for the particular needs of one of the respective organizations using one or more of the digital assets and further wherein at least one of the localized digital assets is created using build rules specified by at least two different ones of the organizations.

Example systems and methods for digital asset management are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. It will also be evident that the digital asset sharing solutions described herein are not limited to the examples provided herein and may include other embodiments not specifically discussed.

According to one example embodiment there is described herein below a multi skin multi organization rights based digital assets sharing system for example used to share digital assets such as information or marketing assets. In one example configuration an Information Provider Organization is a for profit or non profit publisher of information such as an online information resource database that is in the business of supplying information to organizations such as the Client Organizations described herein. In this embodiment the Information Provider Organization employs the system to provide a plurality of Client Organizations such as law firms accounting firms or financial planners with a digital assets delivery platform that allows the Client Organizations to localize the Information Provider Organization s digital assets for the Client Organization s use. Further in one example embodiment the Client Organizations may either access and use the Information Provider Organization s digital assets or manage and use proprietary digital assets introduced to the system by the respective Client Organization. The system in one embodiment is managed by the Information Provider Organization which in turn may provision each Client Organization with its own account within the system. According to one embodiment the Client Organizations account is provisioned with a custom user interface skin that displays the Client Organization s trademark trade name and or trade dress. Accordingly the users from each Client Organization are provided the ability to view and use the Information Provider Organization s digital assets and further to publish the Information Provider Organization s digital assets or its own proprietary digital assets localized with branding and other information specified by the Client Organization. Thus each Client Organization has the ability to move between Information Provider Organization s digital assets or their own proprietary library of digital assets specific to their needs.

According to another embodiment the system may optionally limit the sharing of Digital Assets only to peer to peer sharing wherein there is no for profit or non profit Information Provider Organization that is engaged in the business of supplying content to other organizations referred to herein also as a commercial Information Provider Organization such as the Client Organizations. Instead in this embodiment an entity other than an Information Provider Organization administers the system and the Client Organizations alone provide Digital Assets to be shared with other Client Organizations and to be localized by each respective Client Organization. In this capacity each Client Organization acts as a peer information provider organization.

The following terms are used herein and should be interpreted in accordance with the following definitions the use of the terms in the specification following the definitions and other definitions understood by those of skill in the art for the same term provided that such other definitions that are not inconsistent with the definitions given herein.

Admin is a title given to users with Administrative capabilities in the Asset management and sharing system. Admins in one example embodiment have the ability to edit user permissions utilize Login As functionality and have a greater level of access to digital assets of the Asset Library.

An asset is an umbrella term that refers to any digital file that can be used in internal or external communications efforts. Major types of Assets include text image PDF video audio podcasts. Any major media file type e.g. JPG DOC MPEG etc can be used as an asset. Assets are saved in and accessed from the Asset Library.

Asset Groups in one example embodiment allow admin users to manage which sets of assets an Organization and or user within an Organization is allowed to access when they customize emails or other materials. Organizations and or Users can belong to one or multiple Asset Groups.

Asset Group Admin functions in one example embodiment help manage how assets are stored and which Organizations or Users can access them. In one embodiment a system or organization admin can add remove or rename asset groups. An Asset Group can be created by an Information Provider Organization or in one example embodiment also be created by a Client Organization either of which respectively can specify which Client Organizations can access the Asset Group. Client Organizations can in turn specify which of their Users can access Asset Groups available to the Client Organization.

The client ID in one example embodiment is an optional informational assignment given to assets to assist in identifying and narrowing the search for assets.

In one example embodiment a Client Organization is an organization provisioned by the Information Provider Organization in the system by which the Client Organization for example can share Digital Assets provided by the Information Provider Organization or in an optional alternate embodiment share Digital Assets with other Client Organizations.

In one example embodiment the Custom Dictionary allows a user to add words into the system that are specific to an Organization and may not be recognized in an English Dictionary. These words may be brand names or product offerings etc. Adding them to the Custom Dictionary will streamline the spell check process for users.

According to another example embodiment users can activate and set expiration dates for any asset to determine when they will be accessible to users in the system.

In one embodiment the Information Provider Organization is an organization that publishes Digital Assets and optionally in one example embodiment also administers the system for sharing Digital Assets as described further herein.

Image Assets are any files saved as images for example for use in email or PDF customization. In one example embodiment these assets may make up the sections of the Template Zones to which they are assigned. File types can include but are not limited to JPG GIF PDF PNG and EPS.

According to an example embodiment Image Info displays basic information about the asset including its ID Title Content expiration dates and Text Asset type. This Image Info may comprise the asset and determine how it is used in a template.

In one example embodiment by default keywords are be used in filtering both template options and Asset library searches. Keywords are assigned to assets to assist in organization and to simplify searching. Keywords are organized in groups to easily assign an asset to multiple related keywords.

In an example embodiment assets may be assigned categories in Asset management and sharing system. Categories are then organized into keywords. Keywords make the search process easy allowing users to find materials they re looking for quickly in the Asset library or while using a template. The Keyword Admin section may allow the admin to edit the categories and keywords.

In example embodiments Digital Assets are customized to include Localizations such as but not limited to localizations desired due to differences in geographic locations differences in the organizations using the Digital Assets differences in the subject products or services differences in channels differences in branding requirements and or differences in legal compliance requirements.

In another example embodiment the Login As functionality allows an admin to login as a user to monitor activity or operate the selected user s account as the user.

Multitenancy refers to a software architecture where a single instance of the software runs on a server serving multiple client organizations tenants . With a multitenant architecture a software application is designed to virtually partition its data and configuration and each client organization works with a customized virtual application instance.

In one example embodiment the Organization Hierarchy refers to the user s place within the Organization tree of system permissions. For example employees users in one example embodiment are grouped beneath their supervisor. Groups may be nested hierarchically meaning head of the organization is at the top of the hierarchy and subordinates follow according to rank.

In one example embodiment Print Vendor information is stored for use in Print on Demand orders for an Organization s preferred printers.

In one example embodiment Templates serve as architectural patterns to assist in building communication pieces such as emails and PDFs. They provide a consistent foundational model with designated Template Zones into which various assets can be placed. Templates promote consistency between communication pieces by providing a limited number of specified customizable variables.

In an example embodiment each template has zones assigned to organize asset placement. You can assign assets to particular Template Zones insuring that only relevant assets are available to users when customizing materials and emails.

In an example embodiment Text Assets are any text materials. This includes headers greetings and articles. These assets may be accessed by users in templates when customizing emails or PDFs to make up the pieces of the template zones to which they are assigned.

In another example embodiment Text Type identifies the nature type of text of which a text asset is comprised. This can be any kind of text including greetings articles headers body copy calls to action secondary copy etc. Text type assists in locating and placing the appropriate type of text in template zones.

In an example embodiment the User Admin function allows admins to edit or review system asset organization or user information for example user roles asset groups the user s place in the Organization Hierarchy.

In one example embodiment these personal and contact details may be used to populate fields in custom email and PDF templates.

In an example embodiment the UI Skin describes or defines the aesthetic visual primarily cosmetic aspects of a UI as opposed to functional elements for example but not limited to graphical elements such as colors fonts formatting and brand elements such as trade names trademarks or trade dress that alter the look and feel of the functional user interface elements. Skinning may be implemented with a model view controller architecture.

In an example embodiment each User in the system must be assigned a user role. This may determine their permissions and capabilities throughout the system.

Referring now to there is illustrated an overview of a digital asset sharing system according to one example embodiment. System includes one or more data structures and computer programs to hold store manipulate display and otherwise use various kinds of data used to automate various digital asset management authoring localization distribution publication or other asset sharing or management tasks. In one example embodiment data structures and programs are represented by data and modules that include digital assets in the form of information assets such as marketing materials customizable template module list management module campaign management module marketing material depository module business rules policies user management module measurement and analytics and big data module .

A front end web portal provides a graphical user interface for use by various constituencies including corporate and product marketing personnel creative services personnel field marketing personnel and personnel in distributed sales channel sales and distribution partners. A back end administration portal provides access to systems administrators to provide a variety of system configuration functions as explained herein below.

In addition system connects to a variety of services used to distribute digital assets such as information content or marketing assets including e mail print on demand SMS text social media and direct marketing services. Also system interfaces with various other systems including customer relationship management systems point of sales systems social media systems print systems e mail systems direct mail systems fulfillment systems and translation systems.

Referring to there is illustrated an overview of the asset management control applied to individual digital assets . Business rules and access privileges are used to control access to assets on multiple levels or dimensions based on a defined organizational hierarchy privileges of individuals in that hierarchy the geographic location of an organization or user language requirements local legal rules and regulations and or specific restrictions applied to individual assets .

According to one example embodiment illustrated in the system allows for multiple levels of administration of asset management wherein a first administrative user may establish a group of individuals in a first organization one or more of which may in turn be authorized to establish one or more subgroups of users and so on to create even lower levels of hierarchy. The privileges of each group and or individual to use digital assets in the system may be specified. Accordingly a first set of digital assets for example assets A1 and A2 may be authorized for use by a first group as a whole but only a portion of that authorization may be passed onto individual members of the group by a person responsible for managing the first group for example by individual I 1 who provides access to asset A1. In addition a member of the first group having privileges to the first set of digital assets may in turn create his or her own subgroup and selectively pass the privileges to use individual ones of the first set of assets to individual ones of that subgroup.

According to another example embodiment the Client Organizations may also introduce their own proprietary digital assets into system which may be stored in one or more of the Asset Groups and use those assets on a proprietary basis. Accordingly in one example embodiment the Client Organization may thus either use digital assets provided by the Information Provider Organization or use their own proprietary digital assets . In yet another example embodiment Client Organizations may also share its own proprietary digital assets with other Client Organizations .

Accordingly in one example embodiment one or more of Asset Groups contains digital assets provided by the Information Provider Organization and other Asset Groups contain proprietary digital assets provided by the Client Organizations . The Information Provider Organization in this example embodiment may be a for profit or non profit digital assets publishing organization such as but not limited to a publisher of scientific business legal or medical data. Such information or data may in some but not all example embodiments be sold or licensed for example on a for profit or non profit basis using a business to consumer or business to business distribution model. For example the publisher may publish or distribute legal information such as treatises statutes case case notes and legal analysis. According to still another example embodiment Client Organization may be a professional organization such as a private practice law firm or law department in a corporation.

An Access Rights module in one example embodiment maintains access rights data described in more detail below that specifies the permitted access and uses by individuals in each of the Client Organizations such as administrators or end users of the digital assets. An Asset Template Module maintains Template data described in more detail below that specifies Templates to be used to assemble assets for use Organizations . An Asset Build Rules Module maintains build data and rules that include for example rules specified both by an Information Provider Organization and by a Client Organization .

An Asset Build Module in one example embodiment receives requests for assets from users at one or more of the Client Organizations and using information obtained from the Access Rights Module Asset Template Module and Asset Build Rules Module performs the process illustrated in 1 determines which assets the user has rights to access and optionally what operations or uses the user may perform on or with the asset 2 identifies the rules and data to be used to build a localized digital asset e.g. an asset that is ready for use 3 identifies the template specified to be used to build the localized asset 4 builds the localized digital asset and 5 displays the localized digital asset to the user at the respective Client Organization who in turn may use the asset as permitted. According to one example embodiment as illustrated the localized digital asset includes digital assets retrieved from the asset library template structure retrieved from the Template Module Data brand or other information variables specified by an Information Provider Organization also referred to as a provider in and or by a Client Organization that may use or consume one or more of the digital asset and the localized digital asset also referred to as a consumer in in the asset build rules. Accordingly in one embodiment the localized digital asset is formed using a digital asset from the asset library that is at least in part non localized. This digital asset is then localized or further localized if the asset already has some localization with branding and or other information specified by the Information Provider Organization and or the Client Organization such that the digital assets from the asset library. In one example embodiment the digital assets provided by the Information Provider Organization may have no localization and all localization is provided by the Client Organization .

In one example embodiment where the localized digital asset is introduced into system by the Client Organization the digital assets templates and build rules may be provided entirely by the Client Organization such that localization of the digital asset is entirely or primarily defined by the Client Organization . Alternatively digital assets introduced into system by a Client Organization may be localized using at least some templates or build rules provided by the Information Provider Organization .

For example as illustrated in the process outlined above may be used to build a localized digital asset by combining a non localized or at least partially non localized digital asset e.g. the digital asset contributed by either an Information Provider Organization or Client Organization termed a provider Organization in some references herein and kept in an asset library discussed further below with Template information and with brand or other information specified by build rules specified or adopted by an asset consuming Client and or an Information Provider Organization . According to another example embodiment the Client Organization or Information Provider Organization may specify both the Template information and the build rules.

According to one example embodiment the provider Organization has administrator access to system to specify combinations of digital assets asset templates and build rules wherein the provider Organization may specify assets that are to be used by a Client Organization . Moreover the Client Organization in one embodiment has access to administrator functions on system to specify rules on how to add additional localization information variables to an asset such as adding the Client Organization s branding information or other information. For example in the case the Client Organization is a service firm such as a law firm the firm may establish rules that specify a firm name and or logo to be added to an asset and or for example contact information for the firm and or for example legal notices that may be advisable or required by applicable ethics rules or consumer protection laws. According to one example embodiment the Information Provider Organization may establish a template that includes its desired brand information in the template or it may add brand or other information to a template using build rules it specifies.

Referring now to and there is illustrated an example embodiment of system with multi tenant capabilities. As shown in the example embodiment of system is configured to provide access to Organizations using a software as a service SAAS model. In one example embodiment the Information Provider Organization administers a multi tenant embodiment of system and provisions and administers tenant accounts . . . in the system for each Client Organization . In this example embodiment each Client Organization has its own tenant account and the Information Provider Organization shares its digital assets with the Client Organizations from its own tenant account to the respective tenant accounts of the Client Organizations .

In an alternate embodiment the Information Provider Organization and the Client Organizations share a single tenant account and each Client is provisioned as a sub organization so that the Information Provider Organization s digital assets are shared within a single tenant account with the Client Organizations . In this embodiment multiple Information Provider Organizations may each administer their own tenant account and in turn provision Client Organizations as sub organizations within their own tenant account.

In either of the above configurations Information Provider Organization or Client Organizations may have respective members and users such as their employees or agents who are registered as users in the respective tenant account. Each member has a profile that determines at least in part the rights the user has to access and work within the respective tenant account and in turn with the data in data storage system . Data may be digital assets made available to it by an Information Provider Organization or in an alternate embodiment also by another Client Organization within the same tenant account or in another tenant account depending on the configuration.

Various database tables are used in one example embodiment to enable or perform the various software functions and processes described herein. Referring now to these tables illustrates a user profile table in a database according to an example embodiment. User profiles are identified in the table by a User ID a name for the user the Organization ID for the Organization the user belongs to and user profile information such as but not limited to access rights for the user rights with respect to use of specific assets or functions of the system and other user specific information.

Build rules may also include a set of rules and information for each asset in a Group made available to users in the Client Organization . According to one example embodiment the Template for the build is specified by the Organization providing the asset and the Client Organization using the asset defines rules for branding or other information to be added to the Template in a Template Zone to build the asset . In one embodiment such rules or information are applicable to all users in the Client Organization or optionally such that this information is specific to particular users only. As such the asset build rules provide the Client Organization the ability to add additional localization information. Furthermore the rules are in no way limited to these examples. For instance the rules may further specify different asset builds for users not only based on their Organization but also based on their location or other attributes of the user such as a user s expertise level. Alternatively the Organization providing the asset may allow the Client Organization to specify a Template to be used for the asset and for some of the localization information for the template to be created based on build rules established by the Organization providing the asset for use by the another Organization.

Referring now to there is illustrated an example embodiment wherein the Information Provider Organization of the system is a legal information provider dubbed the Legal Content Company in the illustrations. illustrates a user interface with a skin that is presented to the Legal Content Company. illustrates a UI view into an organizational hierarchy wherein groups of users within one or more Organizations are afforded access to a digital assets library provided the digital assets company are organized by region for example countries territories states and provinces. In the example embodiment under the state of Minnesota there is illustrated a Group of users belonging to the Smith Jones firm and also a Group called Real Estate Lawyer. The UI of there is illustrated a UI skinned for the Smith Jones firm. In this example the Smith Jones firm may act as a user organization using digital assets localized in accordance with templates and rules specified by the digital assets provider company that provides digital assets to various user organizations such as the Smith Jones firm and also localized with brand or other information based on build rules specified by the Smith Jones firm or in an alternative embodiment also using templates specified by the Smith Jones firm.

Further as also illustrated in the above described UI and is dependent on the Organization to which the user belongs. As for example illustrated in the process of the UI skin or is determined by system by first receiving the login credentials for a user next determining the UI skin ID for the user based on the Organization to which the user belongs for example as determined from table and determining the skin for that Organization from the table E obtaining the skin information from data storage and then generating the UI skin to present to the user for example in this example a UI skin that shows the branding for the Smith Jones firm or the Information Provider Organization skin for a user logging in with that skin specified. For example as illustrated in users . . . n from respective Organizations . . . n are each presented with a different UI skin . . . n respectively in the event that each Organization has its own unique skin as determined by the process which in one example embodiment is implemented using a computer program executing in the system .

Accordingly as described above and as shown in there is provided a system that in one embodiment shown in is configured such that an Information Provider Organization such as a commercial provider that may also optionally administer and host the system introduces digital assets into the system and Client Organizations and in particular in one embodiment organizations that are peers of one another are allowed to localize those assets for their own use. For example the peer Client Organizations may all be law firms or accounting firms or any other type of organization that would have a common interest in a particular type of digital asset to use in its business. In one configuration of the embodiment of only the Information Provider Organization is allowed to share digital assets with the Client Organizations and the Client Organizations may establish their own build rules and templates for localization of the digital assets .

Alternatively in another embodiment illustrated in the system is configured without a host Information Provider Organization and is operated only with peer Client Organizations that both introduce digital assets into the system for their own use and localization and optionally as well share their own assets with other peer Client Organizations who may localize the shared digital assets from other peer Client Organizations for their own use.

Or alternatively in another embodiment shown in the system is configured to allow both the Information Provider Organization such as a commercial provider and the peer Client Organizations to introduce and share digital assets with the other Organizations.

In another example implementation of the Client Organizations are only partially peers of one another in the sense that their interest in the digital assets may only partially overlap or not be in the same industry or business but nonetheless share an interest in the same type of digital assets .

Further for example as described above with respect to in and elsewhere herein the localization of a digital assets may be performed using build rules specified by one or both of the user of the Digital Asset or the provider of the digital assets to provide shared control over localization of a digital asset between multiple Organizations. Accordingly either or both of the Organizations may specify the template or localization criteria or content for the digital assets being localized.

Referring to there is illustrated an overview of an example embodiment of various modules of the system that may be used to set up and maintain the system data structures and configuration required to support the various functions of the system for users. Modules to accordingly provide both computer program instructions that are executed on a computer platform such as those described in more detail below and data structures to organize and store data created by or loaded into the system by users such as configuration data or asset data such as digital assets .

A User Manager module according to one example embodiment allows a user to browse a list of all users or search by their first or last name and to add delete or edit users including the following methods and functions i locate the desired user in the User Directory ii view their User Details iii edit User Details iv delete a User v add a new user and or vi assign a Login User Name and a Password.

A Profile Manager Module according to one example embodiment displays basic contact information about a user and allows for entry or edit of profile information. These details may be used to populate fields in custom email and PDF templates. According to one example embodiment up to three personal images or logos may also be uploaded for use in selected templates. According to one example embodiment the Profile Manager Module has a configurable localization setting for each user that allows the administrator to set the language for the user. When the user logs in the system automatically changes the GUI on either the back end portal or the front end portal depending on which interface the user is accessing to the language localization setting for that user.

Asset Groups module according to one example embodiment allows a user to manage which sets of digital assets a user is allowed to access. Users may belong to one or multiple Asset Groups . An admin user for example may assign which Asset Groups should have access to this digital assets . Module also allows for adding a user to an Asset Group for example by granting the user access to the desired group. In addition this module and corresponding GUI also allows Admin Users to assign Users access to functionality for the specified Asset Groups . For example according to one example method the user may be granted or denied rights to i download or order digital assets ii customize Email or materials digital assets iii manage their Address Book or Profile and or iv post to Social Media channels.

Assign Admin Rights module according to one example embodiment manages admin rights and controls access to specific functionality. For example the following rights are available to be assigned i managing the Asset library Template Assets Keywords and Asset Groups for the specified Asset Groups ii grant a user access to login as another user the rights to run drilldown summary reports manage print vendors and manage the hierarchy iii additional permissions allow a user to manage the Message Center on the Home screen manage the Custom Dictionary and manage Asset Specific Vendors and or iv the right to grant users the same admin rights to others users in their hierarchy.

Print Vendor Admin module according to one example embodiment has the ability to add or edit Print Vendor information stored in the system for user orders.

Asset Group Admin module according to one example embodiment is an organizational function to help manage how a user s digital assets are stored and who may access them. This module allows an Organization admin to add remove or rename the system asset groups .

Keyword Admin module according to one example embodiment provides that digital assets are assigned categories in the system and then organized into keywords. Keywords assist with the search process in the Asset Library or sorting of digital assets within a customizable template. By default keywords may be used in filtering both template options and Asset Library searches. A Template Only preference may be set to allow a user to determine if a keyword or keyword category may only be used when filtering digital assets used in a template meaning they will not be available in the Asset Library.

The Asset Library Admin module according to one example embodiment allows admin users to manage digital assets accessed by users in the Asset Library. A user may search by Title Client Item ID Asset Groups Categories or Expiration Date. Asset Details contains all of the asset s digital assets and settings. This information assists the System with the management of the digital asset . New digital assets may also be added by the module . When adding a new digital asset a user in one example embodiment assigns all details of the digital asset . Also a user may delete the digital asset if it has not been used in a template. Digital assets information may include in one example embodiment basic information about the digital assets including its an Asset ID Title Description expiration dates and download availability. The asset start and expiration dates may be used to determine when the digital assets will be accessible by setting a start or expiration date.

The Text Admin module according to one example embodiment manages Text Assets which includes headers greetings articles and body copy. When customizing emails or PDFs these digital assets may be accessed by users in templates. The following example functions and methods are provided for this purpose i a search filter allows a user to search by Title Asset ID Asset Groups Templates Categories and Expiration Date ii asset details may be displayed and or edited iii new digital assets may be added iv digital assets may be deleted v a digital asset may be associated with a public URL or an Asset Library URL vi a digital asset may be linked to other digital assets already stored in the Asset Library. For example a user may want to connect a specific article or white paper with a user s email headline or paragraph of text this may help provide a particular digital asset to be included with a user s text asset as a link to the PDF vii a user may manage the templates where the text asset will be used viii a user may assign digital assets to particular Template Zones insuring that only relevant digital assets are available to users when customizing materials and ix keywords may be associated with each digital assets .

The Image Admin module according to one example embodiment controls Image Assets which are any files for use in email or PDF customization. These digital assets make up components of customizable templates to which they are assigned. The following example functions and methods are provided for this purpose i search for a digital asset by Title Asset ID Asset Groups Templates Categories and Expiration Date ii viewing or editing an image asset iii adding or deleting an Image asset iv display add or edit basic information about the digital assets including its ID Title Content Expiration Date and Text Asset Type this Image Info may comprise the digital asset and determine how it is used in a template v manage the templates that the Image Asset will be used in for example assign an image asset to particular Template Zones insuring that only relevant digital assets are available to users when customizing materials vi assign which Asset Groups should have access to this digital asset vii assign the keywords associated with each image asset.

The Organization Hierarchy module according to one example embodiment manages a list of users grouped the way they are structured in the organization. The hierarchy is beneficial for Reporting and Login as structure. The following example functions and methods are provided for this purpose i create edit Hierarchy wherein the Hierarchy allows a user to establish the organizational structure where users will be assigned.

The Custom Dictionary module according to one example embodiment allows a user to add words into the system that are specific to a user s organization and may not be recognized in an English dictionary. These words may be brand names product offerings etc.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology. When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks.

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile electronic device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the device to provide LBS s to a user. LBS s may use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . The servers are coupled to database which includes point of interest files user place files and location history files .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more digital asset sharing applications in certain examples these computer program components are those described herein for the digital asset sharing system communication applications and other sub systems . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server may access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The asset management and sharing applications may provide a number of asset management and sharing functions and services to users that access the networked system as described otherwise herein. The communication applications may likewise provide a number of communication services and functions to users for example to interface with and send messages and data between various communication applications including e mail services text messaging services instant messaging services or other communication services such as messaging through social media platforms. While the asset sharing applications and communication applications and other sub systems are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the applications and or others may form part of a service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various applications applications and sub system could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various asset management and sharing applications communication applications and optional sub systems via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the applications servers and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a local recommendation smartphone application to enable users to receive real time location aware merchant promotions on their smartphones leveraging user profile data and current location information provided by the smartphone.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules may provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and may operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program may be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it may be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations may also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system may include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Thus a method and system for computer guided asset management and sharing have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it may be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

