---

title: Cathepsin cysteine protease inhibitors
abstract: This invention relates to a novel class of compounds which are cysteine protease inhibitors, including but not limited to, inhibitors of cathepsins K, L, S and B. These compounds are useful for treating diseases in which inhibition of bone resorption is indicated, such as osteoporosis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458181&OS=09458181&RS=09458181
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09458181
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141006
---
A variety of disorders in humans and other mammals involve or are associated with abnormal bone resorption. Such disorders include but are not limited to osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma. One of the most common of these disorders is osteoporosis which in its most frequent manifestation occurs in postmenopausal women. Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease characterized by a low bone mass and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue with a consequent increase in bone fragility and susceptibility to fracture. Osteoporotic fractures are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly population. As many as 50 of women and a third of men will experience an osteoporotic fracture. A large segment of the older population already has low bone density and a high risk of fractures. There is a significant need to both prevent and treat osteoporosis and other conditions associated with bone resorption. Because osteoporosis as well as other disorders associated with bone loss are generally chronic conditions it is believed that appropriate therapy will typically require chronic treatment.

Cathepsins belong to the papain superfamily of cysteine proteases. These proteases function in the normal physiological as well as pathological degradation of connective tissue. Cathepsins play a major role in intracellular protein degradation and turnover and remodeling. To date a number of cathepsin have been identified and sequenced from a number of sources. These cathepsins are naturally found in a wide variety of tissues. For example cathepsin B C F H L K O S V W and Z have been cloned. Cathepsin L is implicated in normal lysosomal proteolysis as well as several diseases states including but not limited to metastasis of melanomas. Cathepsin S is implicated in Alzheimer s disease atherosclerosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and certain autoimmune disorders including but not limited to juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis pemphigus vulgaris Graves disease myasthenia gravis systemic lupus erythemotasus rheumatoid arthritis and Hashimoto s thyroiditis allergic disorders including but not limited to asthma and allogenic immune responses including but not limited to rejection of organ transplants or tissue grafts. Increased Cathepsin B levels and redistribution of the enzyme are found in tumors suggesting a role in tumor invasion and metastasis. In addition aberrant Cathepsin B activity is implicated in such disease states as rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis pneumocystisis acute pancreatitis inflammatory airway disease and bone and joint disorders.

Mammalian cathepsins are related to the papain like cysteine proteases expressed by disease causing parasites including those from the families protozoa platyhelminthes nematodes and arthropodes. These cysteine proteases play an essential role in the life cycle of these organisms.

Human type I collagen the major collagen in bone is a good substrate for cathepsin K. See Kafienah W. et al. 1998331 727 732 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In vitro experiments using antisense oligonucleotides to cathepsin K have shown diminished bone resorption in vitro which is probably due to a reduction in translation of cathepsin K mRNA. See Inui T. et al. 1997272 8109 8112 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The crystal structure of cathepsin K has been resolved. See McGrath M. E. et al. 19974 105 109 Zhao B. et al. 19974 109 11 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Also selective peptide based inhibitors of cathepsin K have been developed See Bromme D. et al. 1996315 85 89 Thompson S. K. et al. 199794 14249 14254 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Accordingly inhibitors of Cathepsin K can reduce bone resorption. Such inhibitors would be useful in treating disorders involving bone resorption such as osteoporosis.

What is needed in the art are therapeutic agents to treat diseases associated with Cathepsin K activity including osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cancer including metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma.

The present invention relates to compounds that may be capable of treating and or preventing cathepsin dependent conditions or disease states in a mammal in need thereof. One embodiment of the present invention is illustrated by a compound of Formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts stereoisomers and N oxide derivatives thereof 

The compounds of Formula I are inhibitors of Cathepsin K. As a result the compounds of Formula I could be useful for methods of treating inhibiting or amelioration of one or more disease states that could benefit from inhibition of Cathepsin K including osteoporosis. The compounds of this invention could further be used in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including but not limited to other drugs useful for the treatment of osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical compositions which comprise compounds of Formula I.

In an embodiment of the invention X is oxygen. In another embodiment of the invention X is sulfur. In another embodiment of the invention X is or nitrogen.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl or heterocyclyl wherein said alkyl group is optionally substituted with one to six halo or hydroxy. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl or heterocyclyl wherein said alkyl group is optionally substituted with one to six halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another class of the invention Ris methyl. In another class of the invention Ris ethyl. In another class of the invention Ris isopropyl. In another class of the invention Ris heterocyclyl. In another class of the invention Ris tetrahydropyranyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen or Calkyl wherein said alkyl group is optionally substituted with one to six halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another class of the invention Ris methyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a Ccycloalkyl ring which is optionally substituted with one or two R. In a class of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring. In another class of the invention Rand Rcan be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring which is substituted with two methyl groups.

In an embodiment of the invention each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen or halo or two Rgroups can be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a Ccycloalkyl ring wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one to three halo. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In a class of the invention Ris halo. In a subclass of the invention Ris fluoro. In a class of the invention two Rgroups can be taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a cyclopropyl ring.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen Calkyl ORor R wherein said alkyl groups are optionally substituted with one to six substituents independently selected from the group consisting of OR halo hydroxy cyano and R. In a class of the invention Ris hydrogen. In a class of the invention Ris Calkyl. In a class of the invention Ris OR. In a class of the invention Ris R. In a subclass of the invention Ris aryl which is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo methyl ethyl cyano or SOCH. In a further subclass of the invention Ris phenyl which is optionally substituted with halo.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris heteroaryl heterocyclyl C O NRR C O Ror NRC O OR wherein said heteroaryl and heterocyclyl groups are optionally substituted with one to five substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halo oxo cyano Chaloalkyl and SOR. In a class of the invention Ris heterocyclyl or C O R. In a class of the invention Ris heterocyclyl which is optionally substituted with one to five substituents independently selected from the group consisting of Calkyl halo oxo cyano Chaloalkyl and SOR. In a subclass of the invention Ris 1 1 dioxidothiomorphonlinyl.

In an embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen. In another embodiment of the invention Ris Calkyl which is optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy cyano and O Calkyl . In a class of the invention Ris methyl. In another class of the invention Ris trifluoromethyl.

In an embodiment of the invention p is zero. In another embodiment of the invention p is one. In another embodiment of the invention p is two.

Reference to the preferred classes and subclasses set forth above is meant to include all combinations of particular and preferred groups unless stated otherwise.

Specific embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to the compounds identified herein as Examples 1 to 159 or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof

Also included within the scope of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition which is comprised of a compound of Formula I as described above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The invention is also contemplated to encompass a pharmaceutical composition which is comprised of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any of the compounds specifically disclosed in the present application. These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the teachings contained herein.

The compounds of the present invention are inhibitors of cathepsins and may be useful to treat or prevent cathepsin dependent diseases or conditions in mammals preferably humans. Specifically the compounds of the present invention are inhibitors of Cathepsin K and may be useful to treat or prevent Cathepsin K dependent diseases or conditions in mammals preferably humans.

The compounds of the present invention have advantages over structurally similar compounds known in the art in that they have a marked improved selectivity profiles toward related cathepsins especially cathepsin F.

 Cathepsin dependent diseases or conditions refers to pathologic conditions that depend on the activity of one or more cathepsins. Cathepsin K dependent diseases or conditions refers to pathologic conditions that depend on the activity of Cathepsin K. Diseases associated with Cathepsin K activities include osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta atherosclerosis obesity glaucoma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cancer including metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma. In treating such conditions with the instantly claimed compounds the required therapeutic amount will vary according to the specific disease and is readily ascertainable by those skilled in the art. Although both treatment and prevention are contemplated by the scope of the invention the treatment of these conditions is the preferred use.

An embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting cathepsin activity in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing cathepsin dependent conditions in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting bone loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of reducing bone loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the inhibition of bone resorption which includes abnormally increased bone turnover bone fractures Paget s disease osteogenesis imperfecta and periprosthetic osteolysis is known in the literature see Stroup G. B. Lark M. W. Veber D F. Bhattacharrya A. Blake S. Dare L. C. Erhard K. F. Hoffman S. J. James I. E. Marquis R. w. Ru Y. Vasko Moser J. A. Smith B. R. Tomaszek T. and Gowen M. Potent and selective inhibition of human cathepsin K leads to inhibition of bone resorption in vivo in a nonhuman primate. J. Bone Miner. Res. 16 1739 1746 2001 and Votta B. J. Levy M. A. Badger A. Dodds R. A. James I. E. Thompson S. Bossard M. J. Carr T. Connor J. R. Tomaszek T. A. Szewczuk L. Drake F. H. Veber D. and Gowen M. Peptide aldehyde inhibitors of cathepsin K inhibit bone resorption both in vivo and in vitro. J. Bone Miner. Res. 12 1396 1406 1997.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing osteoporosis including glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the above pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of osteoporosis is known in the literature see Saftig P. Hunziker E. Wehmeyer O. Jones S. Boyde A. Rommerskirch W. Moritz J. D. Schu P. and Vonfigura K. Impaired osteoclast bone resorption leads to osteopetrosis in cathepsin K deficient mice. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 13453 13458 1998.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing periodontal disease including tooth loss in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the above pharmaceutical compositions described above. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of periodontal disease and tooth loss is known in the literature see Tsuji Y et al. Expression of cathepsin K mRNA and protein in odontoclasts after experimental tooth movement in the mouse maxilla by in situ hybridization and immunoelectron microscopy. Cell Tissue Res. 2001 March 303 3 359 69.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing rheumatoid arthritic condition in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that progressive destruction of the periarticular bone is a major cause of joint dysfunction and disability in patients with rheumatoid arthritis RA see Goldring S R Pathogenesis of bone erosions in rheumatoid arthritis . Curr. Opin. Rheumatol. 2002 14 406 10. Analysis of joint tissues from patients with RA have provided evidence that cathepsin K positive osteoclasts are the cell types that mediate the focal bone resorption associated with rheumatoid synovial lesion see Hou W S Li W Keyszer G Weber E Levy R Klein M J Gravallese E M Goldring S R Bromme D Comparison of Cathepsin K and S expression within the Rheumatoid and Osteoarthritic Synovium Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 663 74. In addition generalized bone loss is a major cause of morbidity associated with severe RA. The frequency of hip and spinal fractures is substantially increased in patients with chronic RA see Gould A Sambrook P Devlin J et al Osteoclastic activation is the principal mechanism leading to secondary osteoporosis in rheumatoid arthritis . J. Rheumatol. 1998 25 1282 9. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of resorption in subarticular bone and of generalized bone loss represent a rational approach for pharmacological intervention on the progression of rheumatoid arthritis.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating or preventing the progression of osteoarthritis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that osteoarthritis OA is accompanied with well defined changes in the joints including erosion of the articular cartilage surface peri articular endochondral ossification osteophytosis and subchondral bony sclerosis and cyst formation see Oettmeier R Abendroth K Osteoarthritis and bone osteologic types of osteoarthritis of the hip Skeletal Radiol. 1989 18 165 74. Recently the potential contribution of subchondral bone sclerosis to the initiation and progression of OA have been suggested. Stiffened subchondral bone as the joint responding to repetitive impulsive loading is less able to attenuate and distribute forces through the joint subjecting it to greater mechanical stress across the articular cartilage surface. This in turn accelerates cartilage wear and fibrillate see Radin E L and Rose R M Role of subchondral bone in the initiation and progression of cartilage damage Clin. Orthop. 1986 213 34 40. Inhibition of excessive subarticular bone resorption by an anti resorptive agent such as a cathepsin K inhibitor will lead to inhibition of subchondral bone turnover thus may have a favorable impact on OA progression.

In addition to the above hypothesis cathepsin K protein expression was recently identified in synovial fibroblasts macrophage like cells and chondrocytes from synovium and articular cartilage specimens derived from OA patients see Hou W S Li W Keyszer G Weber E Levy R Klein M J Gravallese E M Goldring S R Bromme D Comparison of Cathepsin K and S expression within the Rheumatoid and Osteoarthritic Synovium Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 663 74 and Dodd R A Connor J R Drake F H Gowen M Expression of Cathepsin K messenger RNA in giant cells and their precursors in human osteoarthritic synovial tissues . Arthritis Rheumatism 1999 42 1588 93 and Konttinen Y T Mandelin J Li T F Salo J Lassus J et al. Acidic cysteine endoproteinase cathepsin K in the degeneration of the superficial articular hyaline cartilage in osteoarthritis Arthritis Rheumatism 2002 46 953 60. These recent studies thus implicated the role of cathepsin K in the destruction of collagen type II in the articular cartilage associated with the progression of osteoarthritis. The utility of cathepsin K inhibitors in the treatment or prevention of osteoarthritis as described in this invention thus comprise of two different mechanisms one is on the inhibition of osteoclast driven subchondral bone turnover and two is on the direct inhibition of collagen type II degeneration in the synovium and cartilage of patients with OA.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating cancer in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K is expressed in human breast carcinoma prostate cancer and chordoma and has matrix degrading capabilities see Littlewood Evans A J Bilbe G Bowler W B Farley D Wlodarski B Kokubo T Inaoka T Sloane J Evans D B Gallagher J A The osteoclast associated protease cathepsin K is expressed in human breast carcinoma. Cancer Res 1997 Dec. 1 57 23 5386 90 Brubaker K D Vessella R L True L D Thomas R Corey E Cathepsin K mRNA and protein expression in prostate cancer progression. J Bone Miner Res 2003 18 222 30 Haeckel C Krueger S Kuester D Ostertag H Samii M Buehling F Broemme D Czerniak B Roessner A. Expression of cathepsin K in chordoma. Hum Pathol 2000 July 31 7 834 40.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating atherosclerosis in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K is expressed in human atheroma and has significant elastase activity see Sukhova G K Shi G P Simon D I Chapman H A Libby P. Expression of the elastolytic cathepsins S and K in human atheroma and regulation of their production in smooth muscle cells. J Clin Invest 1998 August 102 576 83. It is also known that the Cat K null mouse when crossed with an ApoE null mouse shows reduced atherosclerotic plaque area and increased resistance to plaque rupture see E. Lutgens S. P. M. Lutgens B. C. G. Faber S. Heeneman M. M. J. Gijbels M. P. J. de Winther P. Frederik I. van der Made D. Black M. J. A. P. Daemen K. B. J. M. Cleutjens Disruption of the Cathepsin K Gene Reduces Atherosclerosis Progression and Induces Plaque Fibrosis but Accelerates Macrophage Foam Cell Formation. Circulation 2006 113 98 107. Increased plaque stability would lead to a decrease in heart attack and stroke in a patient administered a therapeutically effective amound of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating obesity in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K mRNA is increased in adipose tissue in several mouse models of obesity and also in adipose tissue of obese human males see Chiellini C Costa M Novelli S E Amri E Z Benzi L Bertacca A Cohen P Del Prato S Friedman J M Maffei M. Identification of cathepsin K as a novel marker of adiposity in white adipose tissue J Cell Physiol 2003 195 309 21.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating glaucoma in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amound of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. Cathepsin K is highly expressed in the iris ciliary body and retinal pigment epithelium and as such can be useful in the treatment of glaucoma see Ortega J. et al. Gene Expression of Proteases and Protease Inhibitors in the Human Ciliary Epithelium and ODM 2 cells Exp. Eye Res 1997 65 289 299 International Publication WO 2004 058238 Alcon Inc. .

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K plays a role in lung fibrosis see Buhling F. et al. Pivotal role of cathepsin K in lung fibrosis Am J Pathol. 2004 June 164 6 2203 16.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating parasitic infections in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that mammalian cathepsins are related to the papain like cysteine proteases which play an important role in the life cycle of these parasites. Such parasites are involved in the diseases of malaria American trypanosomiasis African trypanosomiasis leishmaniasis giardiasis trichomoniasis amoebiasis schistosomiasis fascioliasis paragonimiasis and intestinal roundworms see Lecaille F Kaleta J Bromme D. Human and parasitic papain like cysteine proteases their role in physiology and pathology and recent developments in inhibitor design. Chem Rev 2002 102 4459 88.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating metastatic bone disease in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that osteoclasts are responsible for bone resorption and that bone destruction and hypercalcemia induced by metastatic tumors are carried out by osteoclasts. Accordingly the inhibition of osteoclasts can prevent bone destruction and bone metastasis see Miyamoto T. and Suda T. Differentiation and function of osteoclasts Keio J Med 2003 March 52 1 1 7.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of preventing metastatic bone disease in a mammal with a primary tumor that carries a risk of bone metastasis comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is described in the literature that compounds that inhibit osteoclasts function can prevent tumor cell adhesion to bone see S. Boissier M. Ferreras O. Peyruchaud S. Magnetto F. H. Ebetino M. Colombel P. Delmas J. M. Delaiss and P. Cl zardin Bisphosphonates Inhibit Breast and Prostate Carcinoma Cell Invasion an Early Event in the Formation of Bone Metastases 60 2949 2954 2000

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating hypercalcemia of malignancy or multiple myeloma in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above. It is known in the literature that cathepsin K plays a role in hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma see Faust J. et al. Multiple myeloma cells and cells of the human osteoclast lineage share morphological and cell surface markers. J Cell Biochem. 1998 Dec. 15 71 4 559 68 A. lipton New therapeutic agents for the treatment of bone diseases. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2005 June 5 6 817 32.

Another embodiment of the invention is administering to a mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds or any of the pharmaceutical compositions described above for the treatment of mammalian diseases associated with cathepsin S including Alzheimer s disease atherosclerosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease cancer and certain autoimmune disorders including but not limited to juvenile onset diabetes multiple sclerosis pemphigus vulgaris Graves disease myasthenia gravis systemic lupus erythemotasus rheumatoid arthritis and Hashimoto s thyroiditis allergic disorders including but not limited to asthma and allogenic immune responses including but not limited to rejection of organ transplants or tissue grafts. It is known in the literature that cathepsin S activity is associated with the above disease states see Munger J S Haass C Lemere C A Shi G P Wong W S Teplow D B Selkoe D J Chapman H A. Lysosomal processing of amyloid precursor protein to A beta peptides a distinct role for cathepsin S. Biochem J 1995 311 299 305 Sukhova G K Zhang Y Pan J H Wada Y Yamamoto T Naito M Kodama T Tsimikas S Witztum J L Lu M L Sakara Y Chin M T Libby P Shi G P. Deficiency of cathepsin S reduces atherosclerosis in LDL receptor deficient mice. J Clin Invest 2003 111 897 906 Zheng T Zhu Z Wang Z Homer R J Ma B Riese R J Jr Chapman H A Jr Shapiro S D Elias J A. Inducible targeting of IL 13 to the adult lung causes matrix metalloproteinase and cathepsin dependent emphysema. J Clin Invest 2000 106 1081 93 Shi G P Sukhova G K Kuzuya M Ye Q Du J Zhang Y Pan J H Lu M L Cheng X W Iguchi A Perrey S Lee A M Chapman H A Libby P. Deficiency of the cysteine protease cathepsin S impairs microvessel growth. Circ Res 2003 92 493 500 Nakagawa T Y Brissette W H Lira P D Griffiths R J Petrushova N Stock J McNeish J D Eastman S E Howard E D Clarke S R Rosloniec E F Elliott E A Rudensky A Y. Impaired invariant chain degradation and antigen presentation and diminished collagen induced arthritis in cathepsin S null mice. Immunity 1999 10 207 17.

Exemplifying the invention is the use of any of the compounds described above in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of osteoporosis in a mammal in need thereof. Still further exemplifying the invention is the use of any of the compounds described above in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of bone loss bone resorption bone fractures metastatic bone disease and or disorders related to cathepsin functioning.

The compounds of this invention may be administered to mammals preferably humans either alone or preferably in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents optionally with known adjuvants such as alum in a pharmaceutical composition according to standard pharmaceutical practice. The compounds can be administered orally or parenterally including the intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal subcutaneous rectal and topical routes of administration.

In the case of tablets for oral use carriers which are commonly used include lactose and corn starch and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are commonly added. For oral administration in capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried corn starch. For oral use of a therapeutic compound according to this invention the selected compound may be administered for example in the form of tablets or capsules or as an aqueous solution or suspension. For oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule the active drug component can be combined with an oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose glucose methyl cellulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate mannitol sorbitol and the like for oral administration in liquid form the oral drug components can be combined with any oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol glycerol water and the like. Moreover when desired or necessary suitable binders lubricants disintegrating agents and coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders include starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes and the like. Lubricants used in these dosage forms include sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include without limitation starch methyl cellulose agar bentonite xanthan gum and the like. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening and or flavoring agents may be added. For intramuscular intraperitoneal subcutaneous and intravenous use sterile solutions of the active ingredient are usually prepared and the pH of the solutions should be suitably adjusted and buffered. For intravenous use the total concentration of solutes should be controlled in order to render the preparation isotonic.

The compounds of the present invention may also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines.

Compounds of the present invention may also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the compound molecules are coupled. The compounds of the present invention may also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinylpyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxypropylmethacrylamide phenol polyhydroxy ethylaspartamide phenol or polyethyleneoxide polylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the compounds of the present invention may be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyglycolic acid copolymers of polyactic and polyglycolic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and crosslinked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels.

The instant compounds may also be useful in combination with known agents useful for treating or preventing osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis Paget s disease abnormally increased bone turnover periodontal disease tooth loss bone fractures rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis periprosthetic osteolysis osteogenesis imperfecta metastatic bone disease hypercalcemia of malignancy and multiple myeloma. Combinations of the presently disclosed compounds with other agents useful in treating or preventing osteoporosis or other bone disorders are within the scope of the invention. A person of ordinary skill in the art would be able to discern which combinations of agents would be useful based on the particular characteristics of the drugs and the disease involved. Such agents include the following an organic bisphosphonate a selective estrogen receptor modulator an androgen receptor modulator an inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase an inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase an integrin receptor antagonist an osteoblast anabolic agent such as PTH Vitamin D a synthetic Vitamin D analogue a Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor an inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta a LOX COX inhibitor and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and mixtures thereof. A preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an organic bisphosphonate. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and a selective estrogen receptor modulator. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an androgen receptor modulator. Another preferred combination is a compound of the present invention and an osteoblast anabolic agent. Organic bisphosphonate includes but is not limited to compounds of the chemical formula

In the foregoing chemical formula the alkyl groups can be straight branched or cyclic provided sufficient atoms are selected for the chemical formula. The C Csubstituted alkyl can include a wide variety of substituents nonlimiting examples which include those selected from the group consisting of phenyl pyridyl furanyl pyrrolidinyl imidazonyl NH C Calkyl or dialkyl substituted NH OH SH and C Calkoxy.

The foregoing chemical formula is also intended to encompass complex carbocyclic aromatic and hetero atom structures for the A and or X substituents nonlimiting examples of which include naphthyl quinolyl isoquinolyl adamantyl and chlorophenylthio.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts and derivatives of the bisphosphonates are also useful herein. Non limiting examples of salts include those selected from the group consisting alkali metal alkaline metal ammonium and mono di tri or tetra C C alkyl substituted ammonium. Preferred salts are those selected from the group consisting of sodium potassium calcium magnesium and ammonium salts. More preferred are sodium salts. Non limiting examples of derivatives include those selected from the group consisting of esters hydrates and amides.

It should be noted that the terms bisphosphonate and bisphosphonates as used herein in referring to the therapeutic agents of the present invention are meant to also encompass diphosphonates biphosphonic acids and diphosphonic acids as well as salts and derivatives of these materials. The use of a specific nomenclature in referring to the bisphosphonate or bisphosphonates is not meant to limit the scope of the present invention unless specifically indicated. Because of the mixed nomenclature currently in use by those of ordinary skill in the art reference to a specific weight or percentage of a bisphosphonate compound in the present invention is on an acid active weight basis unless indicated otherwise herein. For example the phrase about 5 mg of a bone resorption inhibiting bisphosphonate selected from the group consisting of alendronate pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and mixtures thereof on an alendronic acid active weight basis means that the amount of the bisphosphonate compound selected is calculated based on 5 mg of alendronic acid.

Alendronate which is also known as alendronic acid 4 amino 1 hydroxybutylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid alendronate sodium or alendronate monosodium trihydrate 4 amino 1 hydroxybutylidene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid monosodium trihydrate.

Alendronate is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 922 007 to Kieczykowski et al. issued May 1 1990 U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 651 to Kieczykowski et al. issued May 28 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 517 to Dauer et al. issued Apr. 23 1996 U.S. Pat. No. 5 648 491 to Dauer et al. issued Jul. 15 1997 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Cycloheptylaminomethylene 1 1 bisphosphonic acid YM 175 Yamanouchi incadronate formerly known as cimadronate as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 970 335 to Isomura et al. issued Nov. 13 1990 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Nonlimiting examples of bisphosphonates include alendronate cimadronate clodronate etidronate ibandronate incadronate minodronate neridronate olpadronate pamidronate piridronate risedronate tiludronate and zolendronate and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof. A particularly preferred bisphosphonate is alendronate especially a sodium potassium calcium magnesium or ammonium salt of alendronic acid. Exemplifying the preferred bisphosphonate is a sodium salt of alendronic acid especially a hydrated sodium salt of alendronic acid. The salt can be hydrated with a whole number of moles of water or non whole numbers of moles of water. Further exemplifying the preferred bisphosphonate is a hydrated sodium salt of alendronic acid especially when the hydrated salt is alendronate monosodium trihydrate.

The precise dosage of the organic bisphosphonate will vary with the dosing schedule the particular bisphosphonate chosen the age size sex and condition of the mammal or human the nature and severity of the disorder to be treated and other relevant medical and physical factors. Thus a precise pharmaceutically effective amount cannot be specified in advance and can be readily determined by the caregiver or clinician. Appropriate amounts can be determined by routine experimentation from animal models and human clinical studies. Generally an appropriate amount of bisphosphonate is chosen to obtain a bone resorption inhibiting effect i.e. a bone resorption inhibiting amount of the bisphosphonate is administered. For humans an effective oral dose of bisphosphonate is typically from about 1.5 to about 6000 g kg body weight and preferably about 10 to about 2000 g kg of body weight. For alendronate monosodium trihydrate common human doses which are administered are generally in the range of about 2 mg day to about 40 mg day preferably about 5 mg day to about 40 mg day. In the U.S. presently approved dosages for alendronate monosodium trihydrate are 5 mg day for preventing osteoporosis 10 mg day for treating osteoporosis and 40 mg day for treating Paget s disease.

In alternative dosing regimens the bisphosphonate can be administered at intervals other than daily for example once weekly dosing twice weekly dosing biweekly dosing and twice monthly dosing. In a once weekly dosing regimen alendronate monosodium trihydrate would be administered at dosages of 35 mg week or 70 mg week.

 Selective estrogen receptor modulators refers to compounds which interfere or inhibit the binding of estrogen to the receptor regardless of mechanism. Examples of estrogen receptor modulators include but are not limited to estrogen progestogen estradiol droloxifene raloxifene lasofoxifene TSE 424 tamoxifen idoxifene LY353381 LY117081 toremifene fulvestrant 4 7 2 2 dimethyl 1 oxopropoxy 4 methyl 2 4 2 1 piperidinyl ethoxy phenyl 2H 1 benzopyran 3 yl phenyl 2 2 dimethylpropanoate 4 4 dihydroxybenzophenone 2 4 dinitrophenyl hydrazone and SH646.

An estrogen receptor beta modulator is a compound that selectively agonizes or antagonizes estrogen receptor beta ER Agonizing ER increases transcription of the tryptophan hydroxylase gene TPH the key enzyme in serotonin synthesis via an ER mediated event. Examples of estrogen receptor beta agonists can be found in PCT International publication WO 01 82923 which published on Nov. 8 2001 and WO 02 41835 which published on May 20 2002 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

 Androgen receptor modulators refers to compounds which interfere or inhibit the binding of androgens to the receptor regardless of mechanism. Examples of androgen receptor modulators include finasteride and other 5 reductase inhibitors nilutamide flutamide bicalutamide liarozole and abiraterone acetate.

 An inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase refers to an inhibitor of the proton ATPase which is found on the apical membrane of the osteoclast and has been reported to play a significant role in the bone resorption process. This proton pump represents an attractive target for the design of inhibitors of bone resorption which are potentially useful for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis and related metabolic diseases. See C. Farina et al. Selective inhibitors of the osteoclast vacuolar proton ATPase as novel bone antiresorptive agents DDT 4 163 172 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

 HMG CoA reductase inhibitors refers to inhibitors of 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl CoA reductase. Compounds which have inhibitory activity for HMG CoA reductase can be readily identified by using assays well known in the art. For example see the assays described or cited in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 at col. 6 and WO 84 02131 at pp. 30 33. The terms HMG CoA reductase inhibitor and inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase have the same meaning when used herein.

Examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors that may be used include but are not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 231 938 4 294 926 and 4 319 039 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 444 784 4 820 850 and 4 916 239 rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 346 227 4 537 859 4 410 629 5 030 447 and 5 180 589 fluvastatin LESCOL see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 354 772 4 911 165 4 929 437 5 189 164 5 118 853 5 290 946 and 5 356 896 atorvastatin LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 273 995 4 681 893 5 489 691 and 5 342 952 and cerivastatin also known as rivastatin and BAYCHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 177 080 . The structural formulas of these and additional HMG CoA reductase inhibitors that may be used in the instant methods are described at page 87 of M. Yalpani Cholesterol Lowering Drugs Chemistry Industry pp. 85 89 5 Feb. 1996 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 782 084 and 4 885 314. The term HMG CoA reductase inhibitor as used herein includes all pharmaceutically acceptable lactone and open acid forms i.e. where the lactone ring is opened to form the free acid as well as salt and ester forms of compounds which have HMG CoA reductase inhibitory activity and therefor the use of such salts esters open acid and lactone forms is included within the scope of this invention. An illustration of the lactone portion and its corresponding open acid form is shown below as structures I and II.

In HMG CoA reductase inhibitors where an open acid form can exist salt and ester forms may preferably be formed from the open acid and all such forms are included within the meaning of the term HMG CoA reductase inhibitor as used herein. Preferably the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor is selected from lovastatin and simvastatin and most preferably simvastatin. Herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts with respect to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor shall mean non toxic salts of the compounds employed in this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free acid with a suitable organic or inorganic base particularly those formed from cations such as sodium potassium aluminum calcium lithium magnesium zinc and tetramethylammonium as well as those salts formed from amines such as ammonia ethylenediamine N methylglucamine lysine arginine ornithine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine diethanolamine procaine N benzylphenethylamine 1 p chlorobenzyl 2 pyrrolidine 1 yl methylbenz imidazole diethylamine piperazine and tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane. Further examples of salt forms of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors may include but are not limited to acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynapthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate oleate oxalate pamaote palmitate panthothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodide and valerate.

Ester derivatives of the described HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds may act as prodrugs which when absorbed into the bloodstream of a warm blooded animal may cleave in such a manner as to release the drug form and permit the drug to afford improved therapeutic efficacy.

As used above integrin receptor antagonists refers to compounds which selectively antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to the integrin to compounds which selectively antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to the v 5 integrin to compounds which antagonize inhibit or counteract binding of a physiological ligand to both the integrin and the integrin and to compounds which antagonize inhibit or counteract the activity of the particular integrin s expressed on capillary endothelial cells. The term also refers to antagonists of the and integrins. The term also refers to antagonists of any combination of and integrins. H. N. Lode and coworkers in PNAS USA 96 1591 1596 1999 have observed synergistic effects between an antiangiogenic a v integrin antagonist and a tumor specific antibody cytokine interleukin 2 fusion protein in the eradication of spontaneous tumor metastases. Their results suggested this combination as having potential for the treatment of cancer and metastatic tumor growth. integrin receptor antagonists inhibit bone resorption through a new mechanism distinct from that of all currently available drugs. Integrins are heterodimeric transmembrane adhesion receptors that mediate cell cell and cell matrix interactions. The and integrin subunits interact non covalently and bind extracellular matrix ligands in a divalent cation dependent manner. The most abundant integrin on osteoclasts is 10 osteoclast which appears to play a rate limiting role in cytoskeletal organization important for cell migration and polarization. The antagonizing effect is selected from inhibition of bone resorption inhibition of restenosis inhibition of macular degeneration inhibition of arthritis and inhibition of cancer and metastatic growth.

 An osteoblast anabolic agent refers to agents that build bone such as PTH. The intermittent administration of parathyroid hormone PTH or its amino terminal fragments and analogues have been shown to prevent arrest partially reverse bone loss and stimulate bone formation in animals and humans. For a discussion refer to D. W. Dempster et al. Anabolic actions of parathyroid hormone on bone Endocr Rev 14 690 709 1993 . Studies have demonstrated the clinical benefits of parathyroid hormone in stimulating bone formation and thereby increasing bone mass and strength. Results were reported by R M Neer et al. in New Eng J Med 344 1434 1441 2001 .

In addition parathyroid hormone related protein fragments or analogues such as PTHrP 1 36 have demonstrated potent anticalciuric effects see M. A. Syed et al. Parathyroid hormone related protein 1 36 stimulates renal tubular calcium reabsorption in normal human volunteers implications for the pathogenesis of humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy JCEM 86 1525 1531 2001 and may also have potential as anabolic agents for treating osteoporosis.

 Vitamin D includes but is not limited to vitamin D cholecalciferol and vitamin D ergocalciferol which are naturally occurring biologically inactive precursors of the hydroxylated biologically active metabolites of vitamin D 1 hydroxy vitamin D 25 hydroxy vitamin D and 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. Vitamin Dand vitamin Dhave the same biological efficacy in humans. When either vitamin Dor Denters the circulation it is hydroxylated by cytochrome P vitamin D 25 hydroxylase to give 25 hydroxy vitamin D. The 25 hydroxy vitamin D metabolite is biologically inert and is further hydroxylated in the kidney by cytochrome P450 monooxygenase 25 OH D 1 hydroxylase to give 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. When serum calcium decreases there is an increase in the production of parathyroid hormone PTH which regulates calcium homeostasis and increases plasma calcium levels by increasing the conversion of 25 hydroxy vitamin D to 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D.

1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D is thought to be responsible for the effects of vitamin D on calcium and bone metabolism. The 1 25 dihydroxy metabolite is the active hormone required to maintain calcium absorption and skeletal integrity. Calcium homeostasis is maintained by 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D by inducing monocytic stem cells to differentiate into osteoclasts and by maintaining calcium in the normal range which results in bone mineralization by the deposition of calcium hydroxyapatite onto the bone surface see Holick M F Vitamin D photobiology metabolism and clinical applications In DeGroot L Besser H Burger H G eg al. eds. Endocrinology 3ed. 990 1013 1995 . However elevated levels of 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin Dcan result in an increase of calcium concentration in the blood and in the abnormal control of calcium concentration by bone metabolism resulting in hypercalcemia. 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin Dalso indirectly regulates osteoclastic activity in bone metabolism and elevated levels may be expected to increase excessive bone resorption in osteoporosis.

 Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs inhibit the metabolism of arachidonic acid to proinflammatory prostaglandins via cyclooxygenase COX 1 and COX 2. Nonlimiting examples of NSAIDs include aspirin ibuprofen naproxen diclofenac etodolac fenoporfen flubiprofen indomethacin ketoprofen ketorolac meloxicam nabumetone oxaprozin piroxicam sulindac tolmetin diflunisal meclofenamate and phenylbutazone.

A selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor or COX 2 inhibitor refers to a type of nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID that inhibit the COX 2 coenzyme which contributes to pain and inflammation in the body. Nonlimiting examples of COX 2 inhibitos include celecoxib etoricoxib parecoxib rofecoxib valdecoxib and lumiracoxib.

An inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta or IL 1 refers to in inhibitors of IL 1 which is a soluble factor produced by monocytes macrophages and other cells which activates T lymphocytes and potentiates their response to mitogens or antigens. Nonlimiting examples of IL 1B inhibitors include diacerein and rhein.

A LOX COX inhibitor refers to an inhibitor or all three of the major enzymes involved in arachidonic acid pathway namely 5 LOX COX 1 and COX 2. A nonlimiting example of a LOX COX inhibitor is licofelone.

If formulated as a fixed dose such combination products employ the compounds of this invention within the dosage range described below and the other pharmaceutically active agent s within its approved dosage range. Compounds of the instant invention may alternatively be used sequentially with known pharmaceutically acceptable agent s when a combination formulation is inappropriate.

The term administration and variants thereof e.g. administering a compound in reference to a compound of the invention means introducing the compound or a prodrug of the compound into the system of the animal in need of treatment. When a compound of the invention or prodrug thereof is provided in combination with one or more other active agents e.g. a cytotoxic agent etc. administration and its variants are each understood to include concurrent and sequential introduction of the compound or prodrug thereof and other agents. The present invention includes within its scope prodrugs of the compounds of this invention. In general such prodrugs will be functional derivatives of the compounds of this invention which are readily convertible in vivo into the required compound. Thus in the methods of treatment of the present invention the term administering shall encompass the treatment of the various conditions described with the compound specifically disclosed or with a compound which may not be specifically disclosed but which converts to the specified compound in vivo after administration to the patient. Conventional procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are described for example in Design of Prodrugs ed. H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Metabolites of these compounds include active species produced upon introduction of compounds of this invention into the biological milieu.

As used herein the term composition is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts.

The term therapeutically effective amount as used herein means that amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response in a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The terms treating or treatment of a disease as used herein includes inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting or reducing the development of the disease or its clinical symptoms or relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease or its clinical symptoms.

The terms preventing or prevention of a disease as used herein includes causing the clinical symptoms of the disease not to develop in a mammal that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease.

The present invention also encompasses a pharmaceutical composition useful in the treatment of osteoporosis or other bone disorders comprising the administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I of this invention with or without pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents. Suitable compositions of this invention include aqueous solutions comprising compounds of this invention and pharmacologically acceptable carriers e.g. saline at a pH level e.g. 7.4. The solutions may be introduced into a patient s bloodstream by local bolus injection.

When a compound according to this invention is administered into a human subject the daily dosage will normally be determined by the prescribing physician with the dosage generally varying according to the age weight and response of the individual patient as well as the severity of the patient s symptoms.

In one exemplary application a suitable amount of compound is administered to a mammal undergoing treatment for a cathepsin dependent condition. Oral dosages of the present invention when used for the indicated effects will range between about 0.01 mg per kg of body weight per day mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg day and most preferably 0.1 to 5.0 mg kg day. For oral administration the compositions are preferably provided in the form of tablets containing 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 1.0 2.5 5.0 10.0 15.0 25.0 50.0 100 and 500 milligrams of the active ingredient for the symptomatic adjustment of the dosage to the patient to be treated. A medicament typically contains from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously the most preferred doses will range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion. Advantageously compounds of the present invention may be administered in a single daily dose or the total daily dosage may be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. Furthermore preferred compounds for the present invention can be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration will of course be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regimen.

The compounds of the present invention can be used in combination with other agents useful for treating cathepsin mediated conditions. The individual components of such combinations can be administered separately at different times during the course of therapy or concurrently in divided or single combination forms. The instant invention is therefore to be understood as embracing all such regimes of simultaneous or alternating treatment and the term administering is to be interpreted accordingly. It will be understood that the scope of combinations of the compounds of this invention with other agents useful for treating cathepsin mediated conditions includes in principle any combination with any pharmaceutical composition useful for treating disorders related to estrogen functioning.

The scope of the invention therefore encompasses the use of a compound of Formula I in combination with a second agent selected from an organic bisphosphonate a selective estrogen receptor modulator an androgen receptor modulator an inhibitor of osteoclast proton ATPase an inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase an integrin receptor antagonist an osteoblast anabolic agent such as PTH Vitamin D a synthetic Vitamin D analogue a Nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor an inhibitor of interleukin 1 beta a LOX COX inhibitor and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and mixtures thereof.

The compounds of the present invention may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereomeric mixtures and individual diastereomers. Additional asymmetric centers may be present depending upon the nature of the various substituents on the molecule. Each such asymmetric center will independently produce two optical isomers and it is intended that all of the possible optical isomers and diastereomers in mixtures and as pure or partially purified compounds are included within the ambit of this invention. Unless a specific stereochemistry is indicated the present invention is meant to comprehend all such isomeric forms of these compounds.

The independent syntheses of these diastereomers or their chromatographic separations may be achieved as known in the art by appropriate modification of the methodology disclosed herein. Their absolute stereochemistry may be determined by the x ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

Alternatively any enantiomer of a compound may be obtained by stereoselective synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known configuration by methods well known in the art.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of generic Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within generic Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

Tautomers of compounds defined in Formula I are also included within the scope of the present invention. For example compounds including carbonyl CHC O groups keto forms may undergo tautomerism to form hydroxyl CH C OH groups enol forms . Both keto and enol forms are included within the scope of the present invention.

When any variable e.g. R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent its definition on each occurrence is independent at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. Lines drawn into the ring systems from substituents represent that the indicated bond may be attached to any of the substitutable ring atoms. If the ring system is bicyclic it is intended that the bond be attached to any of the suitable atoms on either ring of the bicyclic moiety.

It is understood that one or more silicon Si atoms can be incorporated into the compounds of the instant invention in place of one or more carbon atoms by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are chemically stable and that can be readily synthesized by techniques known in the art from readily available starting materials. An example is silinane. Carbon and silicon differ in their covalent radius leading to differences in bond distance and the steric arrangement when comparing analogous C element and Si element bonds. These differences lead to subtle changes in the size and shape of silicon containing compounds when compared to carbon. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that size and shape differences can lead to subtle or dramatic changes in potency solubility lack of off target activity packaging properties and so on. Diass J. O. et al. Organometallics 2006 5 1188 1198 Showell G. A. et al. Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 2006 16 2555 2558 .

It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the compounds of the instant invention can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are chemically stable and that can be readily synthesized by techniques known in the art as well as those methods set forth below from readily available starting materials. If a substituent is itself substituted with more than one group it is understood that these multiple groups may be on the same carbon or on different carbons so long as a stable structure results. The phrase optionally substituted with one or more substituents should be understood as meaning that the group in question is either unsubstituted or may be substituted with one or more substituents.

As used herein alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having one to ten carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. For example C C as in C Calkyl is defined to include groups having 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbons in a linear or branched arrangement. For example C Calkyl specifically includes methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl and so on.

The term haloalkyl means an alkyl radical as defined above unless otherwise specified that is substituted with one to five preferably one to three halogen. Representative examples include but are not limited to difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl trifluoroethyl perfluoroethyl dichloroethyl and the like.

The term cycloalkyl means a monocyclic or bicyclic saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having the specified number of carbon atoms. For example cycloalkyl includes cyclopropyl methyl cyclopropyl 2 2 dimethyl cyclobutyl 2 ethyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and so on. The term cycloalkyl includes bridged systems including bicycle 1.1.1 pnetanyl bicyclo 3.1.0 hexanyl azabicyclo 3.2.1 heptanyl and bicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl.

If no number of carbon atoms is specified the term alkenyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon radical straight or branched containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least 1 carbon to carbon double bond. Preferably 1 carbon to carbon double bond is present and up to 4 non aromatic carbon carbon double bonds may be present. Thus C Calkenyl means an alkenyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl butenyl and cyclohexenyl. As described above with respect to alkyl the straight or branched portion of the alkenyl group may contain double bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkenyl group is indicated.

If no number of carbon atoms is specified the term alkynyl refers to a non aromatic hydrocarbon radical straight or branched containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and at least 1 carbon to carbon triple bond. Preferably 1 carbon to carbon triple bond is present and up to 4 non aromatic carbon carbon triple bonds may be present. Thus C Calkynyl means an alkynyl radical having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. Alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl and cyclohexynyl. As described above with respect to alkyl the straight or branched portion of the alkynyl group may contain triple bonds and may be substituted if a substituted alkynyl group is indicated.

As used herein aryl is intended to mean any stable monocyclic or bicyclic carbon ring of up to 12 atoms in each ring wherein at least one ring is aromatic. Examples of such aryl elements include phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl indanyl biphenyl phenanthryl anthryl or acenaphthyl.

The term heteroaryl as used herein represents a stable monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring of up to 10 atoms in each ring wherein at least one ring is aromatic and contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The term heteroaryl includes bicyclic rings wherein one ring is aromatic and the other is not in these instances the heteroatom s can be in either the aromatic or nonaromatic ring for example indolinyl. Heteroaryl groups within the scope of this definition include but are not limited to benzoimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl benzopyrazolyl benzotriazolyl benzothiophenyl benzoxazolyl carbazolyl carbolinyl cinnolinyl furanyl indolinyl indolyl indolazinyl indazolyl isobenzofuranyl isoindolyl isoquinolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl naphthpyridinyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl oxazoline isoxazoline pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridopyridinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolyl quinoxalinyl tetrazolyl tetrazolopyridyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl triazolyl dihydrobenzoimidazolyl dihydrobenzofuranyl dihydrobenzothiophenyl dihydrobenzoxazolyl dihydroindolyl dihydroquinolinyl methylenedioxybenzene benzothiazolyl benzothienyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl and tetra hydroquinoline. If the heteroaryl contains nitrogen atoms it is understood that the corresponding N oxides thereof are also encompassed by this definition.

The term heterocycle or heterocyclyl as used herein is intended to mean a 5 to 10 membered nonaromatic ring unless otherwise specified containing from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N S SO or SOand includes bicyclic groups. Heterocyclyl therefore includes but is not limited to the following piperazinyl piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl dioxidomorpholinyl iminooxidothiomorpholinyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropiperidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl and the like. If the heterocycle contains a nitrogen it is understood that the corresponding N oxides thereof are also emcompassed by this definition.

As appreciated by those of skill in the art halo or halogen as used herein is intended to include chloro fluoro bromo and iodo.

In certain instances substituents may be defined with a range of carbons that includes zero such as C C alkylene aryl. If aryl is taken to be phenyl this definition would include phenyl itself as well as CHPh CHCHPh CH CH CHCH CH Ph and so on.

The present invention also includes N oxide derivatives and protected derivatives of compounds of Formula I. For example when compounds of Formula I contain an oxidizable nitrogen atom the nitrogen atom can be converted to an N oxide by methods well known in the art. Also when compounds of Formula I contain groups such as hydroxy carboxy thiol or any group containing a nitrogen atom s these groups can be protected with a suitable protecting groups. A comprehensive list of suitable protective groups can be found in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons Inc. 1981 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The protected derivatives of compounds of Formula I can be prepared by methods well known in the art.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to derivatives wherein the parent compound is modified by making acid or base salts thereof. Salts in the solid form may exist in more than one crystal structure and may also be in the form of hydrates. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. For example such conventional non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic isethionic and the like. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like.

When the compound of the present invention is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid and the like. In one aspect of the invention the salts are citric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric fumaric and tartaric acids. It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

The compounds disclosed in the present application exhibited activity in the following assays. In addition the compounds disclosed in the present application have an enhanced pharmacological profile relative to previously disclosed compounds.

Serial dilutions from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin K 0.4 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Leu Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions 1 3 from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin L 0.027 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Leu Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin B 0.1 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Boc Leu Lys Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 30 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin S 0.66 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Val Val Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Ex 360 nm Em 460 nm for 20 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

Serial dilutions from 500 M down to 0.025 M of test compounds were prepared in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Then 0.5 L of DMSO from each dilution were added to 18.75 L of assay buffer MES 50 mM pH 5.5 EDTA 2.5 mM DTT 2.5 mM and 10 DMSO containing human cathepsin F 10 nM in assay buffer solution. The assay solutions were mixed for 5 10 seconds on a shaker plate and incubated for 15 minutes at room temperature. Z Phe Arg AMC 8 M in 6.25 L of assay buffer was added to the assay solutions. Hydrolysis of the coumarin leaving group AMC was followed by spectrofluorometry Exp 360 nm EmX 460 nm for 20 minutes. Percent of inhibition were calculated by fitting experimental values to standard mathematical model for dose response curve.

The animals are housed fed and cared for according to the Guidelines of the Canadian Council on Animal Care.

Male Sprague Dawley rats 250 400 g are fasted overnight prior to each PO blood level study. The rats are placed in the restrainer one at a time and the box firmly secured. The zero blood sample is obtained by nicking a small 1 mm or less piece off the tip of the tail. The tail is then stroked with a firm but gentle motion from the top to the bottom to milk out the blood. Approximately 0.5 mL of blood is collected into a heparinized vacutainer tube. Compounds are prepared as required in a standard dosing volume of 10 mL kg and administered orally by passing a 16 gauge 3 gavaging needle into the esophagus. Subsequent blood collections are taken in the same manner as the zero blood sample except that there is no need to nick the tail again. The tail is cleaned with a piece of gauze and milked stroked as described above into the appropriately labeled tubes. Immediately after sampling blood is centrifuged separated the plasma put into clearly marked vials and stored in a freezer until analyzed. Typical time points for determination of rat blood levels after PO dosing are 

After the 4 hr time point bleed food is provided to the rats ad libitum. Water is provided at all times during the study.

The following vehicles with corresponding dose volumes may be used in PO rat blood level determinations 

Compounds for PO blood levels can be in suspension form. For better homogeneity the suspension can be placed in a sonicator for approximately 5 minutes.

For analysis aliquots are diluted with 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard and centrifuged to remove protein precipitate. The supernatant is injected directly onto a C 18 HPLC column with mass spectrometry MS or ultra violet absorbance UV or fluorescence Fluo detection. Quantization is done relative to a standard curve prepared using clean blood samples spiked with a known quantities of drug in acetonitrile optionally containing an internal standard. Additional acetonitrile optionally containing internal standard is added to amount 1.2 to 1.5 volumes of the initial blood amount to correspond to what was done in the case of the samples. Bioavailability F is assessed by comparing area under the curve AUC i.v. versus p.o.

Compounds of the present invention may be prepared according to Scheme 1. Thus the compound 1.1 can be converted to an acid chloride 1.2 by treatment with oxalyl chloride. The formed acid chloride 1.2 can be treated with 4 bromobenzylzinc bromide in the presence of copper I cyanide di lithium chloride complex leading to the compound 1.3. Ketone 1.3 can be converted to the compound 1.4 by halogenation with either bromine or NCS. After treatment of the 1.4 with sodium azide compound 1.5 can be reduced to the corresponding amine by reaction with Zn and ammonium chloride. The hydrochloride salt of amine 1.6 can be converted to an amide 1.7 by reaction with an acid chloride or corresponding acid in the presence of an amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HATU. The substituted oxazoles 1.8 can be formed by the intramolecular condensation of 1.7 in the presence of a dehydration reagent such as but not limited to POCl. Hydrolysis of ester 1.8 with either aqueous base or acid leads to compounds 1.9 that can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of amide coupling reagents giving the desired amide 1.10. Palladium catalyzed amination of compound 1.10 with the corresponding amines affords compound 1.11 of the current invention.

Compounds of the current invention may also be prepared according to Scheme 2. The reaction of an acid chloride 1.2 with 4 tert butoxycarbonyl benzyl zinc II bromide in the presence of copper I cyanide di lithium chloride complex leads to the compound 2.1. Hydrolysis of the tert butyl ester with TFA affords benzoic acid derivative 2.2 that is converted to an amide 2.3 by reaction with corresponding amines in the presence of an amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HBTU. An amide 2.3 is converted to compound 2.4 by halogenation of the benzylic position with either bromine or NCS followed by substitution with sodium azide then reduction of the azide to the corresponding amine with Zn and ammonium chloride. Amine 2.4 is converted to a bis amide 2.5 by reaction with pentafluoropropanoic anhydride. Partial deprotection by potassium carbonate in methanol leads to the substituted oxazole 2.6. Hydrolysis of the ester functionality with either aqueous base or acid leads to acid 2.7 that can be coupled with amines in the presence of an amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HATU giving the desired compound 2.8 of the current invention.

Compounds of the current invention may also be prepared according to Scheme 3. The hydrochloride salt of amine 1.6 is converted to a bis pentafluoropropyl amide by reaction with pentafluoropropanoic anhydride followed by partial deprotection with potassium carbonate in methanol giving a substituted oxazole 3.1. Hydrolysis of the ester functionality with either aqueous base or acid leads to compound 3.2 that can be coupled with amines in the presence of an amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HATU giving an amide 3.3. Palladium catalyzed amination of bromide 3.3 with the corresponding amines affords compound 3.4 of the current invention.

Amine 1.6 is converted to an isocyanate 4.1 by reaction with triphosgene and then treated with corresponding amines giving a substituted urea 4.2. Intramolecular condensation of 4.2 in the presence of a dehydration reagent such as but not limited to POClaffords a substituted oxazole 4.3. Palladium catalyzed amination of a bromide 4.3 with the corresponding amines leads to 4.4. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester with either aqueous base or acid followed by coupling with amines in the presence of an amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HATU affords compound 4.5 of the current invention.

Compounds of the present invention may also be prepared according to Scheme 5. Compound 1.7 can be treated with Lawesson s reagent giving the desired substituted thiazole 5.1. Hydrolysis of the methyl ester of 5.1 with either aqueous base or acid leads to carboxylic acid 5.2 that can be coupled with corresponding amines in the presence of the amide coupling reagent such as but not limited to HATU. Palladium catalyzed amination of bromide 5.3 with the corresponding amines affords compound 5.4 of the current invention.

This compound can be prepared from 1R 2S dimethyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate following a similar procedure as described in 1995 117 10905 10913 and in HELVETICA CHIMICA ACTA Vol. 70 1987 p. 142.

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 1.99 g 10.69 mmol in toluene 5 mL was added oxalyl chloride 1.424 g 11.22 mmol and stirred at rt for 18 h. Bubble nitrogen gas through the reaction mixture for 20 min and then concentrate to give a colorless liquid which was used without further purification.

Racemic dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 660 g was charged into 11 L of 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 6.8. Esterase K310 903 25 mL was added to the solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at 30 C. overnight. SFC shows the reaction was done. 1N NaOH was added to pH 7 and the solution was extracted with MTBE 4 8 L . The combined organic fraction was washed with brine dry NaSO and filtered. Removal of the solvent by evaporation gave 225 g 34 yield 98 ee of 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as oil.

To a solution of EtN.3HF 224 g 1.38 mol in DCE 2.8 L was added DAST.BF 630 g 2.74 mol . The resultant suspension was stirred for 10 min and then 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 280 g 1.31 mol was added. The mixture was heated at 55 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into sat. NaHCO 5.6 L and then extracted with DCM 2 L 3 . The organic layer was dried NaSO concentrated and purified by flash chromatography petroleum ether EtOAc 15 1 to afford 260 g of pale yellow oil. The yellow oil was dissolved in 4 L DCM. 3 L of 5 KMnOaq. solution was added. The mixture was stirred at 23 C. overnight. The organic layer was separated washed with 3 L of 5 KMnOfor another 3 hour. The organic layer was separated washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated to dryness giving 1R 2R dimethyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as a white solid 230 g 74.5 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 8.22 m 2H 7.83 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.65 7.69 m 1H 7.52 7.55 m 2H 7.37 s 1H 7.22 dd J 8.1 Hz J 2.0 Hz 1H 3.17 3.20 m 2H 2.73 2.76 m 2H .

Cal B enzyme 26.5 mL was dissolved in 0.1M phosphate buffer at pH 7.0 6.8 L . 1R 2R dimethyl 4 4 difluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 100 g in DMSO 300 mL was added into the reaction mixture and stirred at 25 C. for 6 hours. The solution was washed with brine 1 L and extracted with MTBE 3 L 4 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness giving 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a white solid 90 g 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.65 S 3H 2.93 m 1H 2.68 m 1H 2.39 m 1H 2.12 m 2H 1.74 m 3H .

The solution of 1R 2R dimethyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 300 g 1.4 mol in toluene 6 L was added ethylene glycol 117 ml 2.1 mol and TsOH 5.29 g 0.028 mol . The resulted solution was refluxed for 6 hours. The reaction mixture was cool to 23 C. and washed with saturated NaHCO3 2 5 L and water once. The organic phase was concentrated giving 7R 8R dimethyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 330 g 91.2 as a yellow oil.

In a 50 L round buttom flask equipped with overhead stirring and pH Stat NZL 102 enzyme 60 g 5 g L was dissolved in 24 L of phosphate buffer pH 7. 7R 8R Dimethyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 300 g 1.16 mol in 300 mL of DMSO solution was added dropwise and aged at 23 C. overnight. The reaction mixtures was dissolved in 3 1 EtOAc IPA extracted and the organic layer was washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated giving 7R 8R 7 methoxycarbonyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 8 carboxylic acid 220 g 77.5 as a yellow solid.

To the solution of 7R 8R 7 methoxycarbonyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 8 carboxylic acid 2.9 g 11.87 mmol in DMF 20 ml was added KCO 2.461 g 17.81 mmol and then bromomethyl benzene 3.05 g 17.81 mmol and KI 394 mg 2.375 mmol . The resulting suspension was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.95 g 74 of 7R 8R 8 benzyl 7 methyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate as oil.

To the solution of 7R 8R 8 benzyl 7 methyl 1 4 dioxaspiro 4.5 decane 7 8 dicarboxylate 2.95 g 8.82 mmol in acetone 40 ml was added 1N HCl 40 mL and the resulting mixture was heated at 60 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc water organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.56 g 100 of 1R 2R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate as a clear oil.

The solution of 1R 2R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 oxocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 2.6 g 8.96 mmol in THF 45 ml was cooled with salt ice bath 5 C. and NaBH 0.678 g 17.91 mmol was added. The resulted solution was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched carefully with water and EtOAc. The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel giving 2.05 g 78 of the desired alcohol 1R 2R 4R 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxycyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate.

To a solution of morpholinodifluorosulfinium tetrafluoroborate 1.704 g 7.01 mmol in DCM 4 mL was added triethylamine trihydrofluoride 2.261 g 14.03 mmol . The resulting suspension was stirred for 10 min at RT and cooled to 78 C. 1R 2R 4R 1 Benzyl 2 methyl 4 hydroxycyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 2.05 g 7.01 mmol solution in DCM 10 mL was added at with internal temp kept 

The suspension of Pd C 10 122 mg 0.115 mmol in EtOAc 1 ml was added to 1R 2R 4S 1 benzyl 2 methyl 4 fluorocyclohexane 1 2 dicarboxylate 675 mg 2.293 mmol . The resulting suspension was stirred at 1 atm Hballoon for 5 hour. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated to give 770 mg 100 of the desired 1R 2R 4S 4 fluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a colorless oil.

Into a 50 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 1R 6S 6 methoxycarbonyl cyclohex 3 enecarboxylic acid 2.40 g 13.0 mmol 1.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 30 mL . To this solution was added potassium carbonate 3.59 g 26.0 mmol 2.00 equiv . This was followed by the addition of benzyl bromide 3.34 g 19.5 mmol 1.50 equiv dropwise with stirring at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h at ambient temperature. The resulting mixture was diluted with brine 50 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 30 1 15 . This resulted in 3.20 g 90 of 1R 2S 1 benzyl 2 methyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate as a colorless oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.43 7.30 m 5H 5.69 s 2H 5.14 s 2H 3.58 s 3H 3.14 3.05 m 2H 2.64 2.53 m 2H 2.42 2.34 m 2H MS ES m z 275.1 M 1 .

Into a 500 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of diethylzinc 1 M in hexane 46.8 mL 4.00 equiv in anhydrous dichloromethane 150 mL . This was followed by the addition of trifluoroacetic acid 5.34 g 46.8 mmol 4.00 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. To this solution was added diiodomethane 12.5 g 46.8 mmol 4.00 equiv dropwise with stirring at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. Then a solution of 1R 2S 1 benzyl 2 methyl cyclohex 4 ene 1 2 dicarboxylate 3.20 g 11.7 mmol 1.00 equiv in anhydrous dichloromethane 50 mL was added dropwise with stirring at 0 C. The reaction solution was stirred and warmed slowly to ambient temperature for 16 h. The reaction solution was quenched by the addition of water 300 mL and extracted with dichloromethane 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 10 . This resulted in 3.10 g 92 of 3R 4S 3 benzyl 4 methyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 4 dicarboxylate as a light yellow oil MS ES m z 289.0 M 1 .

Into a 250 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 3R 4S 3 benzyl 4 methyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 4 dicarboxylate 3.10 g 10.8 mmol 1.00 equiv in methanol 100 mL followed by the addition of palladium 10 on carbon 0.300 g wetted with ca. 55 water . The reaction mixture was degassed with hydrogen for 3 times and stirred under hydrogen balloon for 16 h at ambient temperature. The solid was filtered out. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 2.10 g 89 of crude 3R 4S 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid as a colorless oil which was used directly in next step without further purification MS ES m z 199.2 M 1 .

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed anhydrous methanol 130 mL . This was followed by the addition of sodium 2.00 g 87.0 mmol 8.21 equiv in portions at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at ambient temperature until sodium disappeared. To this solution was added a solution of 3R 4S 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 2.10 g 10.6 mmol 1.00 equiv in methanol 20 mL . The resulting solution was refluxed for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. The pH value was adjusted to 4 with aqueous hydrochloric acid solution 1 M . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 5 1 3 . This resulted in 1.40 g 60 of 3R 4R 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid as a light yellow oil H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 12.30 12.10 brs 1H 3.55 s 3H 2.36 2.25 m 3H 2.12 2.04 m 1H 1.79 1.74 m 1H 1.36 1.34 m 1H 0.99 0.95 m 2H 0.63 0.60 m 1H 0.10 0.08 m 1H MS ES m z 199.2 M 1 .

Preparation of 1 M CuCN.2LiCl A mixture of CuCN 1.792 g 20 mmol and LiCl 1.696 g 40 mmol was dried under vacuum at 140 C. for 5 h. After cooling the mixture down to rt 20 mL THF was added and stirred at rt overnight to give a light green solution.

To a solution of CuCN.2LiCl 1 M 12.82 mL in THF at 25 C. was added a solution of 4 bromobenzylzinc bromide 0.5 M 25.6 mL in THF dropwise and stirred for 15 min. A solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 2.187 g 10.69 mmol in THF 7 mL was added dropwise and the resulting mixture was stirred for 5 min at 25 C. for 15 min at 0 C. and 4 h at rt. Partition the reaction mixture between EtOAc and aqueous NHOH aqueous saturated NHCl 1 2 v v 200 mL . Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purified by flash chromatography 40 g SiO using a linear gradient of 3 to 15 EtOAc in hexanes to give a white solid 2.45 g 67 .

A solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 5.9 g 17.39 mmol and N chlorosuccinimide 2.79 g 20.87 mmol in dry DMF 25 mL was heated at 65 C. for 1 h and then cooled to rt. Partition between saturated aqueous NaSOsolution and EtOAc. Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . Combined organic solutions were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purified by flash chromatography 120 g SiO using a linear gradient of 3 to 15 EtOAc in hexanes to give a white solid 5.83 g 90 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 chloroacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 4.794 g 12.83 mmol in DMSO 30 mL is added sodium azide 1.001 g 15.4 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 15 min diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . Combined organic solutions were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a light yellow viscous liquid which was used without further purification.

To a mixture of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 azido 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 4.794 g 12.61 mmol and NHCl 1.686 g 31.5 mmol in EtOH 29 mL was added HO 10 mL followed by zinc dust 1.154 g 17.65 mmol . Concentrated after 1 h of stirring at rt. The residue was triturated with THF and filtered. The filtrate was then concentrated to give a light yellow foam which was used without further purification.

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride 157 mg 0.402 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL at 0 C. was added 3 4 difluorobenzoyl chloride 284 mg 1.607 mmol followed by Hunig s base 312 mg 2.411 mmol . Stirred at 0 C. for 15 min and then concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DMSO and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 40 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a colorless viscous liquid 77 mg 39 .

A solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorobenzamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 77 mg 0.156 mmol in POCl 3 mL was heated at 100 C. for 10 h and at 80 C. for 60 h. The solution was concentrated and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added to the dichloromethane solution until the aqueous layer became basic. Layers were separated. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a wite solid which was used without further purification.

A suspension of 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 74 mg 0.155 mmol in MeOH THF 1 2 1.8 mL was treated with 1 N aqueous NaOH solution 0.621 mL and stirred at 60 C. for 4 h. After cooling down to rt 0.621 mL of 1 N aqueous HCl was added. The resulting solution was concentrated to a white solid which was used without further purification.

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 72 mg 0.156 mmol and HATU 89 mg 0.389 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added 1 cyanocyclopropanaminium chloride 46.2 mg 0.389 mmol followed by the addition of Hunig s base 101 mg 0.779 mmol and stirred at 40 C. overnight. The resulting solution was purified directly by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 40 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a white solid 32 mg 39 .

To a mixture of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 20 mg 0.038 mmol thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 15.4 mg 0.114 mmol chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 aminoethyl phenyl palladium II 2.81 mg 0.004 mmol and KPO.HO 10.5 mg 0.046 mmol in a vial under an inert atmosphere was added THF 0.7 mL . The vial was sealed and heated at 100 C. for 5 h. Cooled to rt and concentrated. The residue was taken in DMSO filtered and the filtrate was subjected to reverse phase HPLC purification Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 30 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water which did not yield pure product. This impure product was then purified by flash chromatography 4 g SiO using a linear gradient of 3 to 90 EtOAc in hexanes to give a white solid 5 mg 23 . MS M H 581.1. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.88 7.78 m 2H 7.66 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.31 7.27 m 1H 6.99 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.67 s 1H 3.95 3.92 m 4H 3.35 3.24 m 1H 3.14 3.12 m 4H 2.48 2.44 m 1H 2.25 1.64 m 6H 1.48 1.26 m 4H 0.79 0.62 m 2H .

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid INTERMEDIATE 3 through its acid chloride and 4 tert Butoxycarbonyl benzyl zinc II bromide INTERMEDIATE 2 using a similar procedure as described in Step A of Example 1.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 2 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl 2 oxoethyl benzoate 845 mg 2.132 mmol in dichloromethane 4 mL was added TFA 5 mL . After stirring at 23 C. for 30 min the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with water 2 and brine 1 dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a white solid which was used without further purification.

To a solution of 4 2 1R 2R 4 4 difluoro 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl 2 oxoethyl benzoic acid 725 mg 2.13 mmol and HBTU 1.212 g 3.20 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added morpholine 1.3 g 14.91 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 1.5 h and then purified directly by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 5 to 85 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a colorless viscous liquid 434 mg 50 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 5 5 difluoro 2 2 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 434 mg 1.06 mmol in dichloromethane 24 mL was added a solution of Br 169 mg 1.06 mmol in dichloromethane 1 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 6 h and then cooled to rt and partitioned between saturated aqueous NaSOand dichloromethane. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 4 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a white foam which was used without further purification.

Solid sodium azide 48.5 mg 0.746 mmol was added to a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 bromo 2 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl acetyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate 331 mg 0.678 mmol in MeCN 5 mL . After stirring the reaction mixture at 60 C. for 30 min 50 mg more sodium azide was added and continued stirring at 60 C. for 1 h. Cooled to 23 C. and partitioned between EtOAc and water. Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a tan solid which was used without further purification.

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R methyl 2 2 azido 2 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl acetyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate using a similar procedure as described for 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride in Step D of Example 1.

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl acetyl 5 5 difluorocyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride 100 mg 0.217 mmol and EtN 88 mg 0.868 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added a solution of 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoropropanoic anhydride 135 mg 0.434 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL dropwise and stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 5 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a white solid 44 mg 28 .

A solution of 1R 2R methyl 5 5 difluoro 2 2 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl 2 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoro N 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoropropanoyl propanamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 44 mg 0.061 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was treated with solid KCO 212 mg 1.535 mmol and stirred at 23 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between EtOAc and water. Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a tan solid which was used without further purification.

Concentrated sulfuric acid 0.5 mL was added dropwise to a solution of 1R 2R methyl 5 5 difluoro 2 4 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl 2 perfluoroethyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 34 mg 0.062 mmol in THF water 1 1 1 mL and stirred at 60 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between EtOAc and water. Aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 . Combined organic solutions were washed with brine dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a tan solid which was used without further purification.

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R 5 5 difluoro 2 4 4 morpholine 4 carbonyl phenyl 2 perfluoroethyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as described for 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide in Step H of Example 1. MS M H 603.0. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.77 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.52 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 6.17 s 1H 3.90 3.42 m 10H 2.88 2.82 m 1H 2.35 1.80 m 5H 1.35 1.43 m 2H 0.68 0.98 m 2H .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride from Step D Example 1 250 mg 0.64 mmol and EtN 259 mg 2.56 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added a solution of 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoropropanoic anhydride 397 mg 1.28 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL dropwise and stirred for 15 min. The reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 30 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a viscous yellow liquid 60 mg 20 .

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 perfluoroethyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as described for 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid in Step G Example 1.

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 perfluoroethyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as described for 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide in Step H of Example 1.

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 perfluoroethyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide as described for 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide in Step I of Example 1. MS M H 587.5. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.64 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.98 d J 8.9 Hz 2H 5.82 s 1H 3.95 3.92 m 4H 3.41 3.34 m 1H 3.14 3.11 m 4H 2.50 2.44 m 1H 2.01 1.08 m 10H 0.89 0.73 m 2H .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride from Step D Example 1 100 mg 0.256 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL at 0 C. was added aqueous saturated NaHCOsolution 5 mL . Triphosgene 53 mg 0.179 mmol was added to this biphasic mixture while stirring rapidly. After 15 min at 0 C. the reaction mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 2 h and then diluted with dichloromethane. Layers were separated. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a colorless viscous liquid which was used without further purification.

To a suspension of 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 ium chloride 121 mg 0.765 mmol in dichloromethane 0.5 mL was added Hunig s base 99 mg 0.765 mmol . This mixture was sonicated until all solids dissolved. To this solution was added a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 isocyanatoacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 97 mg 0.255 mmol in dichloromethane 1.5 mL and stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 10 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a colorless viscous liquid 48 mg 38 .

A solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 4 4 difluoropiperidine 1 carboxamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 48 mg 0.096 mmol in POCl 1 mL was stirred at 50 C. for 4 h. The solution was concentrated and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added to the dichloromethane solution until the aqueous layer became basic. Layers were separated. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purified by flash chromatography 4 g SiO using a linear gradient of 3 to 30 EtOAc in hexanes to give a white solid 22 mg 48 .

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as described for 1R 2R N 1 cyanocyclopropyl 2 2 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxamide in Step I of Example 1.

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 23 mg 0.043 mmol in MeOH THF 1 3 0.8 mL was added aqueous NaOH solution 1 N 0.193 mL and stirred at 40 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between aqueous saturated NHCl solution and dichloromethane. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give a light yellow sticky solid which was used without further purification.

This compound was prepared from 1R 2R 2 2 4 4 difluoropiperidin 1 yl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as described for 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 4 difluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide in Step H of Example 1. MS M H 588.2. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.53 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.94 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.61 s 1H 3.91 3.88 m 4H 3.70 3.66 m 4H 3.12 3.06 m 5H 2.37 2.99 m 1H 2.12 1.59 m 9H 1.40 1.21 m 5H 0.70 0.76 m 2H .

Into a 25 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen were added 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate hydrochloride from Step D Example 1 0.15 g 0.38 mmol 1.00 equiv and dichloromethane 5 mL . To this solution were added a solution of 3 chlorobenzoyl chloride 0.27 g 1.54 mmol 4.00 equiv in dichloromethane 5 mL and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.30 g 2.31 mmol 6.00 equiv at 0 C. The reaction solution was stirred for 30 min at 0 C. The reaction solution was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 10 mL . The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 0.20 g of 1R 2R Methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorobenzamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylateas a light yellow oil MS ES m z 492.1 M 1 494.1 M 1 .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl formamido acetyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate 0.200 g 0.410 mmol 1.00 equiv toluene 4 mL and phosphoroyl trichloride 6 mL . The reaction solution was stirred for 16 h at 80 C. in an oil bath. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with ice water 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 8 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 5 40 . This resulted in 0.13 g 67 of 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 473.9 M 1 475.9 M 1 

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask were placed 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl 1 3 oxazol 5 yl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate 0.22 g 0.46 mmol 1.00 equiv aqueous sodium hydroxide 1 M 1.90 mL 4.00 equiv methanol 3 mL and tetrahydrofuran 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h at 60 C. in an oil bath. The pH value of the mixture was adjusted to 2 with aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 0.21 g 98 of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a yellow solid MS ES m z 460.1 M 1 462.1 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexane carboxylic acid 0.21 g 0.46 mmol 1.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 0.26 g 0.68 mmol 1.50 equiv 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carbonitrile hydrochloride 0.14 g 1.14 mmol 2.50 equiv and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.29 g 2.28 mmol 5.00 equiv . The reaction solution was stirred for 16 h at 40 C. in an oil bath and quenched by the addition of water ice 10 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 2 6 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 0.17 g 71 of 1R 2R 2 4 4 Bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 524.2 M 1 526.2 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL sealed tube purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen were placed 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chlorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 60.0 mg 0.11 mmol 1.00 equiv thiomorpholine 1 1 dione hydrochloride 59.0 mg 0.34 mmol 3.00 equiv potassium phosphate 0.12 g 0.57 mmol 5.00 equiv chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 2 2 aminoethylphenyl palladium II 8.40 mg 0.01 mmol 0.10 equiv and tetrahydrofuran 3 mL . The mixture was lightly degassed by three repetitive cycles of vacuum 1 2 s and nitrogen refilling. The reaction mixture was stirred for 6 h at 120 C. in an oil bath. The resulting mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by Prep HPLC with the following conditions Column Xbridge C18 5 m 25 150 mm Mobile phase Water 0.05 ammonium bicarbonate and acetonitrile 47 acetonitrile up to 60 in 10 min hold 100 for 3 min down to 47 in 1 min Detector UV 220 and 254 nm. This resulted in 16.0 mg 24 of 1R 2R 2 2 3 Chlorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 5 as a colorless solid H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.10 s 1H 8.06 7.95 m 1H 7.67 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.56 7.50 m 2H 7.16 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 4.10 3.93 m 4H 3.33 3.27 m 1H 3.21 3.17 m 4H 2.74 2.66 m 1H 2.06 1.65 m 6H 1.62 1.49 m 2H 1.35 1.30 m 2H 0.79 0.64 m 2H MS ES m z 579.3 M 1 581.3 M 1 .

Into a 50 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzoic acid 0.30 g 1.72 mmol 1.00 equiv in dichloromethane 10 mL . To this solution was added oxalyl chloride 0.2 mL dropwise and one drop of N N dimethylformamide. The reaction solution was stirred for 15 h at ambient temperature. The resulting solution was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 0.33 g 98 of 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride as a yellow oil.

Into a 50 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate hydrochloride 0.25 g 0.64 mmol 1.00 equiv in dichloromethane 10 mL . This was followed by the addition of triethylamine 0.5 mL . The reaction solution was stirred for 10 min at 0 C. To this was added 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride 0.308 g 1.60 mmol 2.50 equiv . The reaction solution was stirred for 12 h while slowly warming to ambient temperature. The resulting mixture was concentrated under vacuum and diluted with water 10 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 0.41 g of crude 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 532.2 M 23 534.2 M 23 .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask was placed a solution of 1R 2R Methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chloro 2 fluorobenzamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.41 g 0.80 mmol 1.00 equiv in toluene 0.5 mL . To this solution was added phosphoryl trichloride 4 mL . The reaction solution was stirred for 5 h at 80 C. in an oil bath. The resulting solution was concentrated under vacuum and quenched by the addition of water ice 10 mL . The pH value of the mixture was adjusted to 10 with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 9 . This resulted in 0.12 g 30 of 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 492.0 M 1 494.0 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 0.12 g 0.24 mmol 1.00 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL . To this solution was added thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide hydrochloride 0.13 g 0.73 mmol 3.00 equiv potassium phosphate 0.26 g 1.22 mmol 5.00 equiv chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 2 2 aminoethylphenyl palladium II 18.0 mg 0.020 mmol 0.100 equiv . The reaction mixture was lightly degassed by three repetitive cycles of vacuum 1 2 s and nitrogen refilling. The reaction mixture was stirred for 48 h at 100 C. in an oil bath. The resulting mixture was diluted with water 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was applied onto silica gel column chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 60.0 mg 45 of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 569.1 M 23 571.1 M 23 .

Into a 25 mL round bottom flask was placed of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 60.0 mg 0.11 mmol 1.00 equiv . To this were added 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide 2 mL 18.8 equiv methanol 2 mL and tetrahydrofuran 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 60 C. in an oil bath. The resulting mixture was concentrated under vacuum and diluted with water 5 mL . The pH value of the solution was adjusted to 4 with aqueous hydrochloric acid 10 . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 15 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. This resulted in 60.0 mg 92 of 1R 2R 2 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid as a yellow oil MS ES m z 533.1 M 1 535.1 M 1 .

Into a 10 mL round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of 1R 2R 2 2 3 chloro 2 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 60.0 mg 0.11 mmol 1.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 5.0 mL . To this solution were added 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carbonitrile hydrochloride 66.7 mg 0.56 mmol 5.00 equiv 2 1H 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyl uronium hexafluorophosphate methanaminium 68.5 mg 0.18 mmol 1.60 equiv and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.12 g 0.90 mmol 8.00 equiv . The reaction solution was stirred for 24 h at ambient temperature. The resulting solution was diluted with ethyl acetate 30 mL and washed with water 3 10 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . This resulted in 18.5 mg 28 of 1R 2R 2 2 3 Chloro 2 fluorophenyl 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide Compound 6 as a colorless solid H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 8.80 s 1H 8.07 7.97 m 1H 7.85 7.73 m 1H 7.63 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 7.35 m 1H 7.14 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 4.00 3.80 m 4H 3.33 3.22 m 1H 3.21 3.10 m 4H 2.67 2.55 m 1H 2.00 1.72 m 4H 1.70 1.23 m 6H 0.72 0.60 m 1H 0.50 0.40 m 1H MS ES m z 597.3 M 1 599.3 M 1 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate hydrochloride 250 mg 0.64 mmol in dichloromethane at 0 C. was added 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride 406 mg 2.56 mmol followed by Hunig s base 496 mg 3.84 mmol stirred at 0 C. for 15 min and then concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DMSO and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 20 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a white solid 108 mg 35 .

A solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 4 fluorobenzamido acetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 122 mg 0.256 mmol in POCl 2 mL was heated at 80 C. for 5.5 h and at 40 C. for 14 h. The solution was concentrated and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. Saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution was added to the dichloromethane solution until the aqueous layer became basic. Layers were separated. Aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a white solid which was used without further purification.

A solution 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 117 mg 0.255 mmol in MeOH THF 1 1 2 mL was treated with 1 N aqueous NaOH solution 1.021 mL and stirred at 40 C. for 14 h. After cooling down to rt 1.021 mL of 1 N aqueous HCl was added. The resulting solution was concentrated to a white solid which was used without further purification.

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 113 mg 0.254 mmol and HATU 75 mg 0.636 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added Hunig s base 164 mg 1.272 mmol and stirred at 40 C. for 47 h. The resulting solution was purified directly by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 30 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give desired product as a white solid 85 mg 66 .

To a mixture of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 116 mg 0.228 mmol thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 93 mg 0.685 mmol Chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 aminoethyl phenyl palladium II 8.43 mg 0.011 mmol and KPO.HO 63.1 mg 0.274 mmol in a vial under an inert atmosphere was added THF 1.5 mL . The vial was sealed and heated at 100 C. for 2 h. cooled to rt and concentrated. The residue was taken in DMSO filtered and the filtrate was subjected to reverse phase HPLC purification Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 10 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water . Desired fractions were partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and dichloromethane. Layers were separated. Aqueous layer was extrated with dichloromethane 3 . Combined organic solutions were dried over NaSOand concentrated to give desired product as a white solid 120 mg 93 . MS M H 563.1. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.05 8.02 m 2H 7.68 7.63 m 2H 7.21 7.14 m 2H 7.20 6.97 m 2H 5.66 s 1H 3.94 3.91 m 1H 3.30 3.22 m 1H 3.14 3.12 m 4H 2.51 2.44 m 1H 2.1 1.3 m 10H 0.78 0.58 m 2H .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as for synthesis of 1R 2R methyl 2 chlorocarbonyl cyclohexanecarboxylate using 3R 4R 4 methoxycarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 1.40 g 7.06 mmol 1.00 equiv and oxalyl chloride 1.80 g 14.2 mmol 2.00 equiv in toluene 30 mL . This resulted in 1.5 g 98 of the crude 3R 4R methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a yellow oil which was used directly in next step without further purification.

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step A of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 chlorocarbonyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.62 g 2.86 mmol 1.00 equiv copper I cyanide bis lithium chloride complex 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 4.29 mL 4.29 mmol 1.50 equiv and bromo 4 bromophenyl methyl zinc 1 M in tetrahydrofuran 4.29 mL 4.29 mmol 1.50 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL . This resulted in 0.51 g 50 of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a colorless solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.44 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.05 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.76 s 2H 3.65 s 3H 2.73 2.08 m 4H 1.80 1.65 m 1H 1.46 1.24 m 1H 1.04 0.94 m 2H 0.71 0.64 m 1H 0.04 0.00 m 1H MS ES m z 351.2 M 1 353.2 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 chloroacetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step B of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.51 g 1.45 mmol 1.00 equiv and N chlorosuccinimide 0.23 g 1.74 mmol 1.20 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 10 mL . This resulted in 0.47 g 84 of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 chloroacetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 384.8 M 1 386.8 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 azido 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step C of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 chloroacetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.47 g 1.22 mmol 1.00 equiv and sodium azide 94.9 mg 1.46 mmol 1.20 equiv in dimethyl sulfoxide 10 mL . This resulted in 0.47 g of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 azido 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a light yellow oil which was used directly in next step without further purification.

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate hydrochloride was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step D of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 azido 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.47 g 1.20 mmol 1.00 equiv zinc powder 0.11 g 1.68 mmol 1.40 equiv and ammonium chloride 0.16 g 3.00 mmol 2.50 equiv in ethanol and water 3 1 v v 12 mL . This resulted in 0.43 g 89 of 3R 4R methyl 4 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate hydrochloride as a yellow solid MS ES m z 366.2 M 1 368.2 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropicolinamido acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step H of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 amino 2 4 bromophenyl acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate hydrochloride 0.43 g 1.07 mmol 1.00 equiv 5 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylic acid 0.38 g 2.68 mmol 2.50 equiv HATU 1.02 g 2.68 mmol 2.50 equiv and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.69 g 5.35 mmol 5.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 15 mL . This resulted in 0.33 g of the crude 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropicolinamido acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a yellow oil MS ES m z 489.3 M 1 491.3 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 4 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step F of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 2 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropicolinamido acetyl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.33 g 0.67 mmol 1.00 equiv and phosphoroyl trichloride 10 mL in toluene 4 mL . This resulted in 0.17 g of 3R 4R methyl 4 4 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a light yellow solid MS ES m z 471.1 M 1 473.1 M 1 .

 3R 4R Methyl 4 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl 4 4 thiomorpholino 1 1 dioxide phenyl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step I of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 4 4 bromophenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 0.10 g 0.21 mmol 1.00 equiv thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide hydrochloride 0.11 g 0.64 mmol 3.00 equiv tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 chloroform 40 mg 0.0386 mmol 0.182 equiv dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 30 mg 0.0629 mmol 0.297 equiv and cesium carbonate 0.33 g 1.01 mmol 5.00 equiv in toluene 5 mL . This resulted in 65.0 mg 3R 4R methyl 4 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate as a yellow solid MS ES m z 526.3 M 1 .

 3R 4R 4 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid was synthesized following the same procedure as in Step G of Example 1 using 3R 4R methyl 4 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylate 55.0 mg 0.11 mmol 1.00 equiv in aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 1 M 2 mL and tetrahydrofuran 2 mL . This resulted in 50.0 mg 93 of the desired carboxylic acid as a yellow oil product MS ES m z 512.1 M 1 .

Compound 8 and compound 9 were synthesized following the same procedure as in Step H of Example 1 using 3R 4R 4 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxylic acid 50.0 mg 0.0977 mmol 1.00 equiv 1 aminocyclopropane 1 carbonitrile hydrochloride 28.9 mg 0.24 mmol 2.50 equiv HATU 55.9 mg 0.15 mmol 1.50 equiv and N N diisopropylethylamine 63.2 mg 0.49 mmol 5.00 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL . This resulted in 10.0 mg 14 3R 4R N 1 Cyanocyclopropyl 4 4 4 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholino phenyl 2 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl oxazol 5 yl bicyclo 4.1.0 heptane 3 carboxamide as a colorless solid MS ES m z 576.2 M 1 . The racemic product 10 mg was separated by Chiral Prep HPLC with the following conditions Column Chiralpak IB 0.46 25 cm 5 m Chiral A IB 001 IBOOCE LA026 mobile phase Hex EtOH 60 40 Detector UV 254 nm and 220 nm. This resulted in 3.6 mg of Compound 8 at 16.1 min as a gray solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 8.68 s 1H 8.44 8.39 m 1H 7.87 7.84 m 1H 7.75 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.68 7.65 m 1H 7.01 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 3.96 3.92 m 4H 3.16 3.13 m 4H 3.09 3.03 m 1H 2.81 2.70 m 1H 2.37 2.31 m 1H 2.26 2.16 m 2H 1.94 1.86 m 1H 1.35 1.20 m 2H 1.09 1.04 m 2H 0.90 0.85 m 2H 0.78 0.72 m 1H 0.20 0.16 m 1H MS ES m z 576.0 M 1 . This also resulted in 2.1 mg Compound 9 at 13.4 min as an off white solid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 8.59 s 1H 8.32 8.28 m 1H 7.70 7.69 m 1H 7.69 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.98 brs 1H 3.95 3.92 m 4H 3.15 3.12 m 4H 3.09 3.04 m 1H 2.64 2.62 m 1H 2.38 2.30 m 1H 2.25 2.15 m 2H 1.98 1.94 m 1H 1.35 1.25 m 2H 1.10 1.03 m 2H 0.95 0.88 m 1H 0.78 0.68 m 2H 0.17 0.16 m 1H MS ES m z 576.0 M 1 .

To a solution of crude 1 4 bromophenyl 2 1R 2R 2 methoxycarbonyl cyclohexyl 2 oxoethanaminium chloride 287 mg 0.735 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL at 0 C. was added pivaloyl chloride 0.362 mL 2.94 mmol 4 eq followed by dropwise addition of Hunig s base 0.77 mL 4.41 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred at 0 C. for 15 min and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in DMSO and purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 15 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give the desired product as a white solid 149 mg 46 .

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 2 4 bromophenyl 2 pivalamidoacetyl cyclohexanecarboxylate 74 mg 0.169 mmol in toluene 2 mL was added Lawesson s reagent 54.6 mg 0.135 mmol 0.8 eq . The resulting mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and quenched with saturated NaHCO. The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL . Combined organic phases were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrate under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography 4 g SiO 3 to 15 EtOAc in hexanes giving 52 mg 71 of the desired product as white solid.

To a solution of 1R 2R methyl 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 tert butyl thiazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylate 52 mg 0.119 mmol in MeOH THF 1 1 2 mL was added 1 N NaOH solution. The resulting solution was stirred at 60 C. for 4.5 hours and at 40 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature followed by the addition of 1 N HCl. The resulting mixture was concentrated giving the desired product as a white solid. The crude product was used without further purification.

To a solution of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 tert butyl thiazol 5 yl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 50 mg 0.188 mmol and HATU 67.5 mg 0.178 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added 1 cyanocyclopropanaminium chloride 35 mg 0.296 mmol followed by the addition of DIEA 0.103 mL 0.592 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 18 hours. The resulting solution was filtered and directly purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 30 to 90 MeCN in water 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water to give the desired product as a white solid 49 mg 85 .

To a mixture of 1R 2R 2 4 4 bromophenyl 2 tert butyl thiazol 5 yl N 1 cyanocyclopropyl cyclohexanecarboxamide 25 mg 0.051 mmol thiomorpholine 1 1 dioxide 20.84 mg 0.154 mmol 3 eq chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 aminoethyl phenyl palladium II 3.8 mg 5.14 mol 0.1 eq and KPO.HO 14.2 mg 0.062 mmol in a vial under Nwas added THF 0.7 mL . The vial was sealed and the resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 4 h and then left at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure the residue was dissolved in DMSO and the solution was purified by reverse phase HPLC Sunfire C18 30 150 mm column 5 to 95 MeCN in water. 0.1 TFA modifier for MeCN and water giving 24.5 mg 73 of the desired product Compound 9 as a white solid. MS ES m z 541.1 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.48 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.97 d J 8.6 2H 6.16 s 1H 3.95 3.92 m 4H 3.30 3.25 m 1H 3.12 3.09 m 4H 2.24 2.17 m 1H 2.01 1.79 m 4H 1.51 1.56 m 1H .

The following compounds were prepared using methods analogous to those described in the preceding examples 

As a specific embodiment of this invention 100 mg of a compound of Example 1 is formulated with sufficient finely divided lactose to provide a total amount of 580 to 590 mg to fill a size 0 hard gelatin capsule.

