---

title: Hazard detection unit providing intuitive illumination-based status signaling
abstract: Various methods and systems for hazard detectors are presented. Such hazard detectors may include one or more hazard sensors that are configured to detect the presence of one or more types of hazards. Such hazard detectors may include a circular or a ring-shaped light comprising a plurality of lighting elements. Such a ring-shaped light may be configured to illuminate using a plurality of colors and, possibly, a plurality of animation patterns. Such hazard detectors may include a processing system configured to cause the ring-shaped light to illuminate using the plurality of colors and the plurality of animation patterns in response to a plurality of states corresponding to the battery module and the plurality of hazard sensors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613525&OS=09613525&RS=09613525
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09613525
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled User Friendly Detection Unit and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 which are each hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

This patent specification relates to systems devices methods and related computer program products for smart buildings including the smart home. More particularly this patent specification relates to detection units such as hazard detection units e.g. smoke detectors. carbon monoxide sensors etc. or other monitoring devices that are useful in smart building and smart home environments.

Hazard detectors use sensors to detect substances in the air that may be harmful or that may indicate the development of a hazardous situation. For example carbon monoxide CO and radon gas are substances that can be harmful to humans and animals if exposed to high amounts. However these substances are difficult to detect with the human senses because they are colorless odorless and tasteless. A hazard detector can detect the presence of these substances and prevent the harmful effects of exposure by alarming to notify a user. In other instances a substance such as smoke while not necessarily harmful in and of itself can indicate the development of a hazardous situation such as fire. An early alarm of the presence of such a substance can prevent the hazardous situation from developing or minimize the harmful effects of the situation. Interconnected hazard detectors include detectors that are connected to a network enabling communication between the detectors or with a central control unit. This provides several advantages over standalone detectors including the ability to activate multiple alarms when a single detector is triggered. Hazard detectors may be certified under standards defined by governing bodies and or by companies that perform safety testing such as Underwriters Laboratories UL . For example certain UL standards define thresholds for when smoke detectors and CO detectors should sound an alarm. Certain UL standards also define the required characteristics of the alarm such as powering requirements and the volume pitch and pattern of the alarming sound.

Various methods systems devices computer readable mediums that cause one or more processors to perform the methods an apparatuses are presented. In some embodiments a hazard detector is present. The hazard detector may include a case the case having an interior and a plurality of exterior surfaces wherein the interior of the case houses components of the hazard detector a first exterior surface of the plurality of exterior surfaces is configured to mount with a wall or ceiling and a second exterior surface of the plurality of exterior surfaces located on an opposite side of the case from the first exterior surface. The hazard detector may include a plurality of hazard sensors housed in the interior of the case the plurality of hazard sensors detect the presence of a plurality of types of hazards. The hazard detector may include a user input component to receive user input the user input component being located on the second exterior surface of the case. The hazard detector may include a light that emits light the light comprising a plurality of lighting elements. The light may be capable of illuminating in a plurality of colors and a plurality of animation patterns. When the plurality of lighting elements is illuminated light output by the light may encircle the user input component. The hazard detector may include a processing system in communication with the plurality of hazard sensors the user input component and the light. The processing system may determine a state of the hazard detector. The processing system may cause the light to illuminate using at least one color of the plurality of colors and an animation pattern of the plurality of animation patterns in response to the determined state of the hazard detector.

Embodiments of such a hazard detector may include one or more of the following features The hazard detector may include a presence sensor wherein the processing system is in communication with the presence sensor. The processing system may be further configured to receive information indicative of a user presence from the presence sensor while causing the light to illuminate using the at least one color and the animation pattern and alter the animation pattern used to illuminate the light in response to receiving the information indication of the user presence. The hazard detector may include a microphone. The processing system may be in communication with the microphone and the processing system may be further configured to receive audio data from the microphone while causing the light to illuminate using the at least one color and the animation pattern and modulate illumination of the light based on the received audio data from the microphone. The processing system may be configured to module illumination of the light based on a volume of a user s voice received by the microphone. The processing system may access a stored lookup table that relates the plurality of states to the plurality of colors and the plurality of animations. The processing system may identify the at least one color associated with the determined state and the animation pattern associated with the determined state. The plurality of animations may comprise a rotating animation in which lighting elements of the plurality of lighting elements are sequentially increased and decreased in brightness around the ring shaped light. The light may include a light ring that receives and disperses light generated by the plurality of lighting elements wherein the light ring comprises a plurality of recessed regions wherein a lighting element of the plurality of lighting elements is proximate to a recessed region of the plurality of recessed regions. The plurality of lighting elements may include a plurality of light emitting diodes LEDs and each LED is positioned within a recess created by the plurality of recessed regions. The light output by the ring shaped light may substantially define an edge of the user input component. The plurality of LEDs can be located between the user input component and the first exterior surface of the case of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may include a passive infrared PIR detector wherein the PIR detector is configured to sense infrared light through the button wherein the button is configured to function as a lens.

A method for illuminating a light of a hazard detector may be presented. The method may include determining by the hazard detector a state of the hazard detector. The method may include accessing by the hazard detector a stored lookup table that relates a plurality of states of the hazard detector to a plurality of colors and a plurality of animations. The method may include identifying by the hazard detector using the stored lookup table at least one color associated with the determined state and the animation pattern associated with the determined state. The method may include causing by the hazard detector the light of the hazard detector to illuminate using the identified at least one color of the plurality of colors and the identified animation pattern of the plurality of animation patterns.

A hazard detector apparatus may be presented. The hazard detector apparatus may include means for detecting a presence of a hazard. The hazard detector apparatus may include means for determining a state of the hazard detector apparatus wherein the means for determining the state of the hazard detector apparatus comprises checking a status of the means for detecting the presence of the hazard. The hazard detector apparatus may include means for accessing a storage means that relates a plurality of states of the hazard detector apparatus to a plurality of colors and a plurality of animations. The hazard detector apparatus may include means for identifying using the storage means at least one color associated with the determined state and the animation pattern associated with the determined state. The hazard detector apparatus may include means for causing a lighting means of the hazard detector apparatus to illuminate using the identified at least one color of the plurality of colors and the identified animation pattern of the plurality of animation patterns.

Providing intelligent information to a person in the vicinity of a hazard detector may be accomplished via a light that has a variety of modes. For instance a light of a hazard detector may output multiple colors either at different times or simultaneously multiple animations and or present such animations at various speeds in response to different states and or events of the hazard detector. Such a light may allow a user to discern a significant amount of information from the hazard detector quickly and or without the hazard detector making noise. Further such a light may provide a user with guidance as to how physical input can be provided by a user to the hazard detector in some embodiments light is output in the form of a ring that encircles a button. By the user pressing the hazard detector within the ring of light the user may provide input to the hazard detector via the button. Such an arrangement may be especially beneficial in a darkened environment. Therefore the light may provide an indication of a state of the hazard detector while also illuminating the location of the button for receiving user input.

The light of such a hazard detector may use a light guide such that a finite number of lighting elements e.g. light emitting diodes may be used to produce a continuous or nearly continuous ring of light output from the hazard detector. For example internal to the hazard detector behind the button at least a portion of the light guide may be installed such that lighting elements located behind the button or otherwise within the hazard detector can be used to output light via the light guide such that it appears to a user as a ring. The button may also conceal a sensor such as a passive infrared PIR sensor and possibly a lens. Accordingly a user may press the button to provide input while the user s presence in front of the button may be sensed by the hazard detector.

Processing system may include one or more processors. Processing system may receive input from hazard sensor and or other sources. Based on input from hazard sensor and or other sources processing system may cause light to illuminate using various illumination modes. In some embodiments processing system includes at least two processors a low level processor and a high level processor. The low level processor may handle functions related to hazard detection and may be communicatively connected with hazard sensor . A high level processor which may be configured to handle functions related to user input wireless communication and usability may control illumination of light . In some embodiments both the high and low level processors are able to cause light to illuminate. Such processing may be divided between the high and low level processor such that functions of processor system related to hazard detection are substantially isolated from other functions directed to usability. For instance the low level processor may be able to cause an alarm to sound if a hazardous condition is present even if the high level processor is not functioning properly.

Hazard sensor may represent a smoke sensor or a carbon monoxide sensor. In other embodiments hazard sensor may represent some other form of sensor that detects a hazard in the environment of hazard detector . While a single hazard sensor is illustrated as present in hazard detector it should be understood that in various embodiments multiple hazard sensors may be present such as a carbon monoxide sensor and a smoke sensor. Further multiple types of smoke sensors may be present such as an ionization based smoke sensor and or a photoelectric based smoke sensor. Hazard sensor may be communicatively connected with processing system such that when a hazard is detected by hazard sensor processing system receives input from the sensor indicative of the hazard.

Light may represent a light integrated into hazard detector that outputs light to the external environment around hazard detector based on input from processing system . Light may include one or more lighting elements such as light emitting diodes LEDs . Light may output various illumination modes that can include multiple colors multiple animation patterns and or such multiple animation patterns at varying speeds. The color s animation pattern and speed of animation output by light may be determined based on input received from processing system . Therefore based on the state of hazard detector the color s animation pattern and or speed of the animation output by light may vary.

It should be understood that the block diagram presented in hazard detector in is highly simplified. As such components that are not illustrated may be present such as a power source case light guide etc. illustrates another embodiment of a hazard detector that has a light. Hazard detector may represent a more detailed embodiment of hazard detector of . In hazard detector various components may be present including processing system light carbon monoxide sensor smoke sensor battery based power source wireless communication module user input component and presence sensor . Additional components may also be present such as a microphone and ultrasonic sensor e.g. for detection of movement .

Processing system of hazard detector may include multiple modules. Such modules may be implemented using hardware firmware or software that is executed by hardware. Such modules may include state determination engine definition lookup and output engine and stored illumination definitions . For instance such modules may be executed by a high level processor or a low level of hazard detector . State determination engine may be configured to determine the state of hazard detector and determine when it is appropriate to illuminate light . The state determined by state determination engine may be used to determine at least one color animation and or speed for the animation to be used by light . The state determined by state determination engine may be passed to definition lookup and output engine . Definition lookup and output engine may use the received state to access stored illumination definitions . Stored illumination definitions may be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a ROM or flash memory that is functionally a part of processing system . Stored illumination definitions may be in the form of one or more lookup tables or one or more databases that use the determined state to select one or more colors an animation and or a speed. In stored illumination definitions various colors animations and or speeds of animations may be stored in association with various states. Therefore definition lookup and output engine may use the state determined by state determination engine in combination with stored illumination definitions to identify one or more colors an animation and or speed of animation to use to illuminate light . Further in some embodiments stored illumination definitions may indicate an amount of time for which light should be illuminated based on the state determined by state determination engine . Definition lookup and output engine may provide an output to light or some other component of the hazard detector that causes light to illuminate according to the one or more colors the animation and or the speed of animation determined based on the state.

Light may function as detailed in relation to hazard detector . In hazard detector two hazard sensors are present carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor . In some embodiments multiple versions of each of these types of sensors can be present. For instance an ionization and a photoelectric smoke sensor may be present in hazard detector . When carbon monoxide sensor senses carbon monoxide or smoke sensor senses smoke indication may be sent to a processor of processing system . This indication may be transmitted to a low level processor that triggers an alarm to sound. This low level processor may trigger light directly to illuminate in a state indicative of a hazard or may provide input to a high level processor that is part of processing system that triggers a lookup of an illumination definition via stored illumination definitions to determine an appropriate color animation and or speed of animation to use for illumination of light . Regardless of whether the high level or low level processor is used a different color animation and or speed may be used for carbon monoxide as compared to smoke. In some embodiments both the low and high level processors are capable of causing light to illuminate.

Wireless communication module may allow processing system to communicate with a wireless network present within the structure in which hazard detector is installed. For instance wireless communication module may communicate with a wireless network that uses the IEEE 802.11a b g network protocol standard for communication. Wireless communication module may permit processing system to communicate with a remote server which may be maintained by a manufacturer of hazard detector or by a third party. The remote server may be configured to provide information to processing system about an account of a user associated with hazard detector . For instance if an account of the user maintained at the remote server requires attention from a user such indication may be provided to processing system via wireless communication module . Such indication may be provided by the remote server in response to inquiry from processing system made to the remote server. Further processing system may transmit status information to a remote server. Such an arrangement may permit a user to view status information about the hazard detector by logging in to the remote server via a computing device and accessing the user account.

User input component may represent a component that receives input that can be passed to processing system . User input component may take the form of a button or switch on hazard detector . By depressing the button or otherwise actuating user input component a user can provide input via user input component to processing system . For instance user input component may be used by a user to disable the alarm currently sounding by hazard detector . User input component may be encircled or have its perimeter otherwise outlined by light that is by the light itself and or by light output by light . Therefore when light is active and the user desires to provide input the user may simply touch or push hazard detector within the area defined by light and or the light output by light .

Presence sensor may detect presence in the vicinity of hazard detector . Presence sensor may include one or more sensors such as passive infrared PIR sensors. Presence sensor may detect one or more gestures that may be performed by user in the vicinity of hazard detector and or may detect the presence of one or more users. For instance presence sensor may detect a wave gesture performed by a user. In some embodiments multiple waves may be required to be performed by the user in order for a wave gesture to be detected. In some embodiments presence sensor may only be enabled at certain times which may conserve power. Such presence detection may be used to enable lighting to allow a user to see in the vicinity of hazard detector and or may be used to control and or provide occupancy data to HVAC systems within the structure. Presence sensor may be integrated with user input component such that user input component conceals presence sensor . Further an integrated lens may be present such that presence sensor detects the presence of users through the button of user input component .

Hazard detector is illustrated as including battery based power source and structure power source . In some embodiments of hazard detector such a configuration may be present. Structure power source may be used to power hazard detector when such power is present. Structure power source may represent a hard wired connection within a structure e.g. house building office etc. that provides an AC or DC power to one or more hazard detectors located throughout the structure. While the AC or DC power may be available a significant percentage of time e.g. 99.5 of the time it may be desirable for hazard detector to continue functioning if structure power is unavailable e.g. during a power failure . As such battery based power source may also be present. Battery based power source may include one or more batteries which power the various components of hazard detector when structure power source is not available. In some embodiments of hazard detector structure power source is not present. As such hazard detector may permanently rely on battery based power source to power components of hazard detector . Structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated in as connected with processing system . Processing system may determine if structure power source is available and or check a charge level of battery based power source . It should be understood that while structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated as only connected with processing system this is for simplicity of illustration only structure power source and or battery based power source may be connected to the various components of hazard detector as necessary to power such components.

Light as illustrated embodiment may encircle user input component . To accomplish this light ring may be used. Light ring which more generally can be referred to as a light guide may diffuse or otherwise direct light generated by lighting elements to emanate a face of the hazard detector in which embodiment is integrated. Light ring may be a solid piece of transparent or semitransparent material such as plastic or glass that causes light emitted by lighting elements to emanate from a hazard detector in approximately a continuous ring of light when all of lighting elements are illuminated. As such light ring may cause output light to appear from the exterior of the hazard detector of which embodiment is a part to be in the shape of a ring. This ring of light may be circular or oval. Other embodiments of light guides may cause output light to form some other form of perimeter such as a perimeter of an octagon quadrilateral triangle or some other geometric or abstract shape.

User input component which may be in the form of a button may be encircled by light output by light . More specifically light output through light ring and or a portion of light ring may substantially define the edge of user input component . As such a user touching the hazard detector within a perimeter of light output by light ring can be expected to be touching user input component . Such an arrangement may be particularly useful in the dark such that when light is emanating from light ring a user only needs to touch the hazard detector within the light output from light ring in order to press user input component .

User input component may be integrated with presence sensor as detailed in relation to hazard detector . In embodiment PIR sensor and lens are being used as the presence sensor. PIR sensor may sense the presence of a user based on infrared detection through the face of user input component . Incorporated as part of user input component may be lens which helps define a region in the environment of the hazard detector in which PIR sensor can sense the presence of the user and or a gesture being performed based on received infrared radiation.

Lighting elements and at least a portion of light ring may be located behind the face of user input component similar to PIR sensor . As such lighting elements may generate light behind the face of user input component and light ring may direct such light to a portion of light ring that is present on an exterior face of the hazard detector. Alternatively light ring may be completely or nearly completely hidden from external view behind user input component light from lighting elements may be directed by light ring to reflect off of a portion of a case or more specifically a cover plate of the hazard detector such as a portion of the case that is depressed. Such an arrangement may permit individual lighting elements of lighting elements to not directly face the exterior of the hazard detector. Such an arrangement may be beneficial for space savings within the hazard detector allowing for a compact configuration.

While light is illustrated as a ring which can also be referred to as a halo it should be understood that in other embodiments of hazard detector other shapes may be used for light . For instance light may be elliptical square triangular some other geometric shape some other abstract shape or a line. Similarly in some embodiments case is square or rectangular with rounded edges. While such a design may be especially pleasing to the eye other shapes both geometric or abstract may be used to house the functional components of hazard detector . Generation of the light may occur behind user input component and may be directed by a light ring which may also be located behind user input component to emanate from the hazard detector in the appearance of a ring as illustrated by the halo like shape of light . As such in some embodiments the entire light ring and lighting elements which collectively form light may be located behind user input component and the light directed by the light ring may reflect off of a recessed portion of case into the ambient environment of hazard detector for viewing by a user.

User input component may include a lens that is used in conjunction with a presence sensor e.g. PIR sensor to determine if a user is present and or detect whether a gesture has been performed by user. User input component may have its perimeter substantially defined by the light emanating from light . User input component may serve a dual function functioning as a lens and as a button which can be pushed by user to provide input to hazard detector . In some embodiments user input component is a button but does not include an integrated lens. When user input component is a button by having user input component encircled by emitted light by light it may be easy for a user to locate the button in a darkened environment when light is illuminated. In such a situation the user would only need to push within the circle of light the halo or other region defined by light in order to actuate the button.

Light may appear substantially centered on an exterior surface of case . Case may be designed for a first exterior surface mount to a wall or ceiling. The opposite exterior surface of case may include light . Light and user input component may be substantially centered about an axis extending through the center of the first and second exterior surfaces of case of hazard detector . In other embodiments light and or user input component may not be centered on the exterior surface of case . In some embodiments light may not be recessed within case or may extend beyond an exterior surface of case . For example in some embodiments light may be present as a recessed portion of case that permits light generated within case e.g. behind user input component to emanate from the recessed portion of case .

In some embodiments the location of light is a depressed portion of case . From behind user input module or from some other location within case light is emitted into the depressed portion of case . The light reflects off of case into the environment of hazard detector outlining user input module . Further due to the depressed portion of case from various angles a user may be able to partially see behind user input module . Such a region may also be illuminated by light when light is illuminated.

In some embodiments the light elements of the light of a hazard detector shine directly out of the hazard detector such as illustrated in . illustrate an external view of an embodiment of a hazard detector that is outputting a circular pattern of light. In hazard detector the lighting elements of light shine directly out of hazard detector the light not being redirected using a light ring. It should be understood that the principles detailed in relation to hazard detector may also be applied to a hazard detector that uses a light ring to direct light to the exterior of the hazard detector. Hazard detector which is illustrated in in two different states of a single animation pattern may represent any of the hazard detectors detailed in this document. illustrate hazard detector outputting a lighting effect or animation. This lighting effect can be output in a substantially circular pattern and can be referred to as a circulation effect halo effect or halo sweep effect. The darker a lighting element is shaded in the brighter the lighting element may be illuminated. Therefore in some embodiments a first lighting element may be bright while the lighting element immediately behind it may be slightly less bright and so on.

The circulation effect can be caused by various lighting elements such as LEDs of light being illuminated at different brightness levels at a given time. Lighting elements of light are illuminated consecutively counterclockwise or alternatively clockwise then faded to off. For example in light element may be lit at a first brightness. Shortly thereafter light element may be lit at the first brightness level and light element may have its brightness level decreased to a second lower brightness level. In more time has elapsed and the brightness level of light element has been further decreased and the brightness level of light element has also been decreased to a level below that of light element . This effect results in the appearance of a point of light spinning or rotating around light with a tail. A user viewing hazard detector may view the circulation or halo effect and understand the status of the hazard detector based on the lighting effect the speed of the effect and or the color of light being output by light . In some embodiments when the circulation effect is being output by hazard detector each lighting element of light may output the same color or multiple colors may be output by different lighting elements. Imaginary arrow illustrates the perceived direction of motion of the circulation effect. It should be understood that the opposite direction is also possible and or that such an effect may be applied to a shape of light other than a halo such as an ellipse triangle square abstract shape or quadrangle to name only a few examples. Imaginary arrow shows the perceived position of the circulation effect of hazard detector at a later time at which a different lighting element is now the brightest lighting element with subsequent lighting elements being illuminated progressively less bright.

Hazard detector illustrates a large number of lighting elements being present. While twenty six light elements are illustrated it should be understood that this is for exemplary purposes only. Other embodiments may have fewer or greater numbers of lighting elements. For instance in some embodiments five lighting elements are present. In general having a fewer number of light elements may decrease production costs.

The rear surface of lens button illustrated in may have a Fresnel lens pattern that allows the PIR sensor or another sensor positioned behind lens button to view into a room or other environment in which the hazard detector is installed further than if no Fresnel lens was present. Fresnel lens pattern may be substantially concentric around the center of the circular lens button . In some embodiments Fresnel lens pattern may include a plurality of concentrically arranged rings that each provides a slightly different viewing cone. Each concentrically arranged ring may provide a progressively larger viewing area or cone than rings concentrically arranged and located radially closer to a central axis of lens button . In one embodiment an internal angle of the viewing cones provided by Fresnel lens pattern may vary from between about 15 and about 150 so as to provide a viewing radius on a floor or wall positioned directly in front of the hazard detector at a distance of approximately 10 feet or between about 0.5 m and about 8.8 m. In this manner one or more PIR sensors and or some other type of sensor positioned behind lens button may detect the presence of an occupant within a room in which the hazard detector is installed.

In some embodiments no lens may be present. Therefore button may function as a transparent or semi transparent window to one or more sensors such as a PIR sensor to allow a user to be detected in the vicinity of the hazard detector. A user viewing lens button may not be able to see such a PIR sensor through lens button due to lens button being substantially opaque to visible light. It should be understood that without a lens such as Fresnel lens pattern being present the range at which the PIR sensor can detect the presence of a user based on infrared radiation may be decreased. In some embodiments a type of lens other than Fresnel may be used. For instance a type of material semi transparent to infrared radiation may be used as a form of lens to control a distance at which the PIR sensor can detect a user presence e.g. the more transparent the farther a distance away the user may be sensed .

In an embodiment of a hazard detector E is illustrated. Hazard detector E represents an exploded view of a hazard detector such as the hazard detectors detailed herein including hazard detectors and .

In some embodiments hazard detector E is a roughly square or rectangular shaped object having a width of approximately 120 to 134 mm and a thickness of approximately 38 mm. Stated differently hazard detector E is a multi sensing unit having a fairly compact shape and size that may be easily attached to a wall or ceiling of a home or structure so as to be able among other functionalities to detect the presence of smoke and alert an occupant therein of the potential fire danger. As shown in hazard detector E includes a mounting plate that may be attached to a wall or ceiling of the building or structure to secure the hazard detector E thereto. Mounting plate may represent a portion of a case e.g. case that may be mounted to a wall ceiling or other surface. Hazard detector E also includes a back plate that may be mounted to the mounting plate and a front casing that may be coupled with or otherwise secured to back plate to define a housing having an interior region within which components of the hazard detector E are contained. A circuit board may be coupled with or attached to back plate . Various components may be mounted on circuit board . For example a smoke chamber may be coupled with or mounted on circuit board and may be used to detect the presence of smoke. In one embodiment smoke chamber may be mid mounted relative to circuit board so that air may flow into smoke chamber from a position above circuit board and below circuit board . A speaker and alarm device not numbered may also be mounted on circuit board to audibly warn an occupant of a potential fire danger when the presence of smoke is detected via smoke chamber . Other components such as a motion sensor e.g. PIR sensor carbon monoxide sensor microprocessor and the like may likewise be mounted on circuit board .

In one embodiment a protective plate may be attached to or otherwise coupled with circuit board to provide a visually pleasing appearance to the inner components of hazard detector E and or to a funnel or a direct airflow to smoke chamber . For example when a user views the internal components of hazard detector E such as through vents in back plate protective plate may provide the appearance of a relatively smooth surface and otherwise hide the components or circuitry of circuit board . Protective plate may likewise function to direct a flow of air from the vents of back plate toward smoke chamber so as to facilitate air flow into and out of smoke chamber .

Hazard detector E may also include a battery pack that can provide power to the various components of hazard detector E such as when hazard detector E is not coupled with an external power source such as an AC power source of the home or structure. In some embodiments a cover plate may be coupled with the front casing to provide a visually pleasing appearance to hazard detector E and or for other functional purposes. In a specific embodiment cover plate may include a plurality of holes or openings that allows one or more sensors coupled with circuit board to view or see through a surface of cover plate so as to sense objects external to hazard detector E. The plurality of openings of cover plate may be arranged to provide a visually pleasing appearance when viewed by occupants of the home or structure. In one embodiment the plurality of openings of cover plate may be arranged according to a repeating pattern such as a Fibonacci or other sequence.

A lens button may be coupled with or otherwise mounted to cover plate . Lens button may represent an embodiment of lens button of . Lens button may allow one or more sensors to view through the lens button for various purposes. For example in one embodiment a PIR sensor not shown may be positioned behind the lens button and configured to view through the lens button to detect the presence of an occupant or occupants within the home or structure. In some embodiments lens button may also function as a button that is pressable by a user to input various commands to hazard detector E such as to shut off an alarm that is triggered in response to a false or otherwise harmless condition. Positioned distally behind lens button may be a light ring that receives light. Light ring may represent an embodiment of light ring of . Light ring may receive light from at least one lighting element such as from an LED or another light emitting element and disperse the light within light ring to provide a desired visual appearance such as a halo around lens button . Positioned distally behind light ring may be a flexible circuit board that includes one or more electrical components such as a PIR sensor LEDs and the like. As such the PIR sensor and or lighting elements may be located within hazard detector E behind lens button . Flexible circuit board may be electrically coupled with circuit board to communicate and or receive instructions from one or more microprocessors mounted on a circuit board not shown during operation of hazard detector E.

This pattern may repeat for a defined number of cycles. While such an effect may be created by lighting elements and of it should be understood that a similar effect may be created using a greater or fewer number of lighting elements.

Such an animation may be repeated a number of times or while a state of the hazard detector is active. While such an effect may be created by lighting elements and of it should be understood that a similar effect may be created using a greater or fewer number of lighting elements such as by the large number of lighting elements present in .

The pattern may then be reversed and or repeated. While such an effect may be created by lighting elements and of it should be understood that a similar effect may be created using a greater or fewer number of lighting elements. While only a normal default speed is listed by adjusting the times listed different speed variations of the animation may be created.

While such an effect may be created by lighting elements and of it should be understood that a similar effect may be created using a greater or fewer number of lighting elements. While only a normal default speed is listed by adjusting the times listed different speed variations of the animation may be created.

In various embodiments the visual effects described above could be varied in a number of different ways. For example each effect may be animated faster or slower brighter or dimmer for a specific number of animation cycles with only some of the light participating and using different colors e.g. white blue green yellow and red. and or a mixture of multiple colors.

These visual effects may be generated by the hazard detectors detailed herein for a variety of specified purposes. For example a specific color animation animation speed etc. or combinations thereof may represent one or more of the following alerts or notifications provided a hazard detector booting up selecting language ready for connections connected to client button pressed button pressed for test countdown to test test under way test completed pre alarms smoke alarms carbon monoxide alarms heat alarms multi criteria alarms hushed after alarm post alarm problems night light state reset shutdown begin shutdown safely light battery very low battery critical power confirmation and more. By way of example and not by way of limitation illustrate an exemplary visual vocabulary for visual effects and colors that may be used by embodiments of hazard detectors.

In sine waves are used to define the adjustment between hue intensity levels of individual lighting elements for a shimmer visual effect. In some embodiments multiple linear transitions stored by a hazard detector and may be used to approximate such curves. Such an implementation may be referred to as polyline easing and may require less processing for the hazard detector to implement. As an example a portion of polyline easing the hue transition for LE has been represented using multiple linear segments defined by transition points e.g. transition point and transition point which each have an associated set of coordinates . Line segments represent such polyline easing which is defined based on reference points including reference points and . Such transitions may be defined for all lighting elements and or all lighting effects detailed herein.

In some embodiments color definitions animation definitions and speed definitions may be used independently to select a color animation and speed by the hazard detector based on a status check of the hazard detector. A look up may be performed using color definitions animation definitions and speed definitions to select a color animation and speed that correspond to the status determined by the hazard detector. The color animation and or speed selected from color definitions animation definitions and or speed definitions may then be used by the hazard detector to output a status via a light of the hazard detector.

The embodiments of hazard detectors detailed herein may be used to perform various methods. illustrates an embodiment of a method A for presenting information via a ring shaped light of a hazard detector. Method A may be performed using the hazard detectors related components and animation patterns detailed in relation to .

At block a state of the hazard detector may be determined. The state may be determined by the hazard detector performing a status check of itself or an alarm being triggered. The state may be determined based on the status of one or more hazard sensors such as a smoke sensor and or a carbon monoxide sensor present on the hazard detector. The state of the hazard detector may also be based on a charge level of an onboard battery. State of the hazard detector may also be based upon a status of a user account that is tied to the hazard detector and is maintained by a remote server system. Such states may also be understood to include events. For example an event may be a button press or a network being detected. Therefore a state of the hazard detector being determined may include an event occurring at the hazard detector being determined. Block may be performed by an onboard processing system of hazard detector. For example referring to hazard detector state determination engine of processing system may determine a state of the hazard detector.

At block a stored database table or other storage arrangement of illumination definitions corresponding to various states of the hazard detector may be accessed. The stored illumination definitions may be stored locally by the hazard detector and or may be accessible via a network connection from a remote computer system such as the computer system that maintains the user account that may be associated with the hazard detector. The stored database may include information such as that presented in . As such these stored database of definitions may include indications of color animation and or speed that are associated with states of the hazard detector. Referring to hazard detector definition lookup and output engine of processing system may be configured to access the stored illumination definitions . While hazard detector illustrates stored illumination definitions are stored locally using a non transitory processor readable medium at the hazard detector it should be understood that stored illumination definitions may be stored remotely from the hazard detector may be accessible via wireless communication module . It should be understood that the processing system of the hazard detector may be configured to periodically update its stored illumination definitions with a remote server when an update is available to such definitions from a remote server. For instance when the hazard detector checks on a condition of the user account associated with the hazard detector the hazard detector may be notified that its stored illumination definitions are to be updated.

At block the appropriate color or the appropriate multiple colors animation pattern and or speed may be determined by the hazard detector by accessing the stored illumination definitions. The color animation pattern and or speed may be associated with the state of the hazard detector determined at block . Therefore based on the determined state of the hazard detector the hazard detector can determine an appropriate one or more colors one or more animations and or speed for the animation for use in illuminating a light to provide a user with information about the state. Referring to hazard detector block may involve the one or more colors animations and or speeds being retrieved by definition lookup and output engine from stored illumination definitions .

At block the light of the hazard detector may be illuminated based on the identified one or more colors animation pattern and or speed. Illumination of the light may include one or more lighting elements of the light being simultaneously or intermittently illuminated such as to cause output of any of the various animation patterns previously detailed. Further the color output by the light of the hazard detector may be constant or may vary. Further the speed of an animation such as the speed of the circulating effect may be varied to provide a user with different information. Depending on the state determined at block the amount of time for which the light is illuminated may vary. For example if the state of the hazard detector is indicative of a fire the light may be illuminated until smoke from the fires no longer detected. As another example if the state of the hazard detector is indicative of a low battery the light of the hazard detector may illuminate for three seconds.

In response to a user s presence being detected the color animation and or speed at which the light of the hazard detector is being illuminated may be changed by the hazard detector at block . This modification of the color animation and or speed used to illuminate the light may alert the user as to whether his presence is detected by the hazard detector. By the user knowing that his presence has been detected the user may expect that any provided input such as a gesture or voice command will be received by the hazard detector. In some embodiments the modification to the color animation and or speed used to illuminate the light includes ceasing any animation and illuminating the light in a solid pattern. For instance a circulation effect may be stopped and the light may be illuminated at a constant brightness in response to the presence of a user being detected. If the user moves away and is no longer detected the animation may resume. In other embodiments color and or speed may be modified in response to a user presence being detected.

At block a user s voice may be detected such as via a microphone of the hazard detector. For example the user may say Silence the alarm At block a microphone may receive audio spoken by a user. Data corresponding to such audio may be transmitted by the microphone to the processing system of the hazard detector for analysis. Additionally or alternatively a gesture being performed by the user may be detected by the hazard detector such as via a PIR sensor or an ultrasonic sensor. For example the user may perform a gesture that includes multiple waves.

At block in response to detecting the user s voice and or the gesture the brightness color animation and or speed of the illumination of the light may be modified. For instance the brightness of the light may be modulated according to the detected volume or inflection of the user s detected voice. Such modulation of the brightness may alert the user that the hazard detector is receiving and processing the user s voice. The captured audio from the user may be analyzed to detect a command to be executed by the hazard detector. In some embodiments the animation of the hazard detector is ceased in response to the user s voice being detected. For instance a circulation animation may stop and the light may illuminate a constant brightness while the user is speaking. In some embodiments method B may be performed in conjunction with method C The color animation and or speed of the light may be modified in response to the user s presence being detected then in response to the user s voice being detected the output light may be modulated based on the volume and or inflection of the user s voice. If a gesture is detected at block the illumination of the light may be varied in response to the user s gesture to provide the user with an indication that the gesture has been detected. For instance if a user performs a wave gesture the wave animation of may be performed to echo back to the user that the wave gesture has been received. The mimicked animation based on the gesture may match the directionality and or speed of the user s gesture. For instance a wave left followed by a wave right by a user may result in the hazard detector outputting the wave animation to the left then to the right.

At block the light of a hazard detector may generate light. Generation of light may occur via one or more lighting elements of the light. For example in some embodiments a light can have multiple LEDs that generate light at a same or different brightness level and or a same or different color. At block light from the lighting elements may be directed from the interior of the hazard detector to the exterior of the hazard detector. As such the lighting elements may not be directly visible by user that is external to the hazard detector. To direct light at block a light ring or other form of guide may be used to direct the light from the lighting elements to the exterior of the hazard detector. For example referring to light ring may be used to direct light from multiple LEDs to an exterior of the hazard detector. Such a light ring may be partially or fully hidden within the hazard detector. For example light ring may be located behind a user interface e.g. button such that light ring is not directly visible to a user or is at least hard to see . Such a light ring or other form of guide may disperse light generated by the lighting elements. Such disbursement of the light may allow multiple point sources of light such as LEDs which are being used as the lighting elements to illuminate a shape continuously. Therefore one or more lighting elements may be used to produce a ring or other shape of output light.

At block at least some light generated by the lighting elements may enter the external environment of the hazard detector by reflecting off an external surface of the hazard detector. Such lighting may be referred to as indirect lighting. For example in exterior portion of the hazard detector that is configured to face in the direction of the user may have a recessed portion that reflects light that is received either from the lighting elements directly or as directed by the light ring or other form of guide. For example referring to light directed by light ring may be configured to reflect into the exterior environment of hazard detector E off a recessed portion of cover plate which is part of a case of hazard detector E . In other embodiments light from the lighting elements may enter the external environment directly from the lighting elements or the light ring. That is light reflecting if any off of the case of the hazard detector may be incidental.

At block the light entering the environment of the hazard detector may illuminate an edge of the user input component such that light encircles or otherwise outlines the user input component. Therefore by user pressing or touching within the illuminated circle or other shape the user can assume he is touching the user input component. Such an arrangement may be particularly useful in a darkened environment. A sensor such as a PIR sensor may be located within the hazard detector behind the user input component. By performing a gesture or otherwise being present proximate to the shape defined by the light the user may determine that he is in the proper location to perform the gesture or be sensed. It is to be appreciated that while the described methods and systems for intuitive illumination based status signaling for a hazard detector are particularly advantageous in view of the particular device context in that issues may be brought about by the lack of a full on device graphical user interface e.g. the lack of a dot matrix LCD screen with touchscreen capability or keypad pointer capability with the use instead of non graphical but simple visually appealing on device user interface elements e.g. a simple pressable button with shaped on device lighting and in further view of power limitations for the case of battery only hazard detectors making it desirable for status communications using minimal amounts of electrical power the scope of the present disclosure is not so limited. Rather the described methods and systems for intuitive illumination based status signaling are widely applicable to any of a variety of smart home devices such as those described in relation to infra and including but not limited to thermostats environmental sensors motion sensors occupancy sensors baby monitors remote controllers key fob remote controllers smart home hubs security keypads biometric access controllers other security devices cameras microphones speakers time of flight based LED position motion sensing arrays doorbells intercom devices smart light switches smart door locks door sensors window sensors generic programmable wireless control buttons lighting equipment including night lights and mood lighting smart appliances entertainment devices home service robots garage door openers door openers window shade controllers other mechanical actuation devices solar power arrays outdoor pathway lighting irrigation equipment lawn care equipment or other smart home devices. Although widely applicable for any of such smart home devices one or more of the described methods and systems become increasingly advantageous when applied in the context of devices that may have more limited on device user interface capability e.g. without graphical user interfaces and or having power limitations that make it desirable for status communications using minimal amounts of electrical power. According to one embodiment the user can be provided with a suite of related smart home devices such as may be provided by a common manufacturer or group or badged to work with a common ecosystem of that manufacturer or group wherein each of the devices where practicable provides a same or similar illumination based notification scheme and theme such that the user can be readily familiar with the status signals emitted by the variety of different devices without needing to learn a different scheme for each device. Thus by way of example there can be provided a suite of devices including a security automation hub multiple door window sensors and multiple hazard detectors wherein each such device has a circular illumination ring that conveys visual information according to the themes and schemes described herein. Having read this disclosure one having skill in the art could apply the methods and systems of the present invention in the context of one or more of the above described smart home devices.

Hazard detectors as detailed herein may be installed in a smart home environment. illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. It will be appreciated that devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected hazard detectors and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Still further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances are made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment are modular and can be incorporated into older and new houses. For example the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate which is also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information is then used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering such data may include sun location information temperature due point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control and interact with the smart thermostat hazard detectors and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant can use his registered device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use his registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering devices the smart home environment makes inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and collectively referred to as the smart devices is capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using one or more of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols cellular 3G 4G Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN BLE etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. . One particularly useful protocol that can be used is the Thread protocol which is promulgated by the Thread Group and based on 802.15.4 IETF IPv6 and 6LoWPAN. For some embodiments devices that are powered by the household mains current either directly or through an AC power adapter can be provided with a combination of Wi Fi which can be relatively power intensive along with one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE. In contrast devices that are power constrained in that they are not powered by the household mains current and do not have access to a high capacity battery source are provided only with one or more low power protocols such as Thread and or BLE. In some cases devices that are not powered by the household mains current but do have access to a reasonably high capacity battery source can be provided with a combination of Wi Fi and one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE with the Wi Fi communications being controlled to be temporally restricted such as being turned on only during brief periodic time intervals e.g. once per day to upload logs and receive updates from the cloud during particular device sensed events or when the user has physically actuated the device such as by pressing a button on the device. The hazard detectors described herein can be provided in two different SKUs one SKU being mains powered with battery backup and the other SKU being battery only albeit with a relatively large battery source e.g. six lithium AA cells . For this battery only SKU the hazard detector is preferably provided with a combination of the temporally restricted Wi Fi and one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE.

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart devices via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a cloud computing system which can include one or more centralized or distributed server systems. The cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For one embodiment a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from cloud computing system to devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

According to embodiments the smart devices combine to create a mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and can only communicate using wireless protocols that require very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able to send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables cloud computing system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening. Accordingly users other devices and cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the hazard detectors . These hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable e.g. structural power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user provides a map of the best exit route. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information cloud computing system or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. smart nightlights wall switches smart wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Further included and illustrated in the exemplary smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the Roomba and Scooba products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform communicates with and collects data from a plurality of smart home environments across the world. For example cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform routinely collects data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

Cloud computing system can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at cloud computing system and cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user etc. .

As part of services user accounts may be maintained by the cloud computing system . The user account may store subscription information billing information registration information user preferences and or other data associated with various smart home devices such as one or more hazard detectors installed within a structure that is linked with a user account. Occasionally attention of a user to his or her user account may be requested. In response to a query from hazard detector or other smart home device a message may be transmitted by the cloud computing system to hazard detector which may represent any of the previously described hazard detectors indicating that a status output by hazard detector should indicate that a user is requested to log in to his or her user account. Further detail regarding the requested log may be transmitted by service to hazard detector . For instance the reason for the requested login may be expired payment information such as an expired credit card . The user can request detail on a status output by hazard detector which may be presented to the user as a color and animation output via a light of hazard detector . The request for detail may be by performing a gesture within the vicinity of hazard detector . A spoken message may then be output by hazard detector indicating that the user is requested to log in to his account and may also indicate the reason of the payment information needing to be updated. As such a status check performed by hazard detector may not only check the status of hazard detector itself but also the state of a remotely maintained user account.

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include computerized engines e.g. software executed by hardware configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform exposes a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

Account alert engine may serve to determine whether a hazard detector should provide an indication that the user s account requires attention. For instance account alert engine may periodically assess the state of a user s account such as whether settings need updating whether payment information is up to date whether one or more messages are pending whether payment is due etc. If user attention is required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account requires attention. Additional detail may also be provided such that if the user performs a gesture or otherwise requests additional detail such detail can be provided such as via an auditory message. If user attention is not required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed e.g. by determining an account associated with the hazard detector from which the request was received account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account does not require attention.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to his trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when he is home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform A ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a serious fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. For example one or more intelligent components processing system and components thereof may be a special purpose computer system . Such a special purpose computer system may be incorporated as part of a hazard detector and or any of the other computerized devices discussed herein such as a remote server smart thermostat or network. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that direct the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs computer system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into random access memory RAM . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of computer program product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks such as communication network and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet. Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

It should be noted that the methods systems and devices discussed above are intended merely to be examples. It must be stressed that various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and that various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also it should be emphasized that technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known processes structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure.

Having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

