---

title: Television content management with integrated third party interface
abstract: Systems, methods and devices manage second screen media content that is associated with live or previously-recorded television programming while the programming is being viewed by a user. A control application provides an HTML5 or other application program interface (API) that allows advertisers, retailers or other third parties to access the remote control application for providing useful features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661380&OS=09661380&RS=09661380
owner: EchoStar Technologies L.L.C.
number: 09661380
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 800 847 which was filed on Mar. 15 2013.

The present disclosure generally relates to manageably expanding a television viewer s media experience including second screen interactions with advertisers retailers or other third parties.

With the advent of digital streaming technologies as well as the development of ever advanced network communications and data processing devices television viewers are no longer content to simply watch TV in a non interactive manner. To the contrary many viewers continually demand new and exciting viewing experiences that provide additional features and opportunities. At the same time advertisers retailers and other third parties are seeking increasing opportunities to interact with end customers.

It is therefore desirable to create systems devices and methods that manageably expand the television viewing experience through improved interaction with advertisers retailers and or other third parties. These and other desirable features and characteristics will become apparent from the subsequent detailed description and the appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and this background section.

Various embodiments provide a television remote control application on a tablet smartphone or similar device. The application includes an HTML5 or other application program interface API that allows advertisers retailers or other third parties to access the remote control application for providing useful features. The third party content could be coordinated with television content currently being watched by the viewer.

According to various exemplary embodiments a media player personal computer tablet computer mobile phone video game player or other computing device suitably comprises a processor a memory and an interface to a network such as the Internet. The processor configured to execute a remote control application that controls television content presented on a display viewed by a viewer wherein the remote control application comprises an application program interface that allows an application controlled by a third party to provide content to the remote control application relates to the content currently being viewed by the user.

Other embodiments provide methods executable by personal computers mobile phones laptop or tablet computers video game players and or other computing devices to provide user control of a television. The method suitably comprising executing a remote control application on the computing device that generates a display on a user interface that presents content from a third party wherein the third party provides the content to the remote control application via an application program interface and wherein the remote control application requests the content from the third party based upon content currently presented on the viewer s television.

Still other embodiments provide methods executable by a computing device to provide user control of a television. The method suitably comprises executing a remote control application that generates a display on a user interface that presents content from a third party wherein the third party provides the content to the remote control application via an application program interface and wherein the remote control application requests the content from the third party based upon content currently presented on the viewer s television.

The following detailed description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.

Various embodiments provide a remote control application executable on a tablet PC computer system mobile telephone video game player personal digital assistant remote control and or other device that not only controls television content presented on the viewer s television displays A C but that also allows advertisers retailers and or other third parties to access the viewer s interface via an application program interface API . In various embodiments an application includes an HTML5 or similar API that allows third party services to provide additional content such as images links video games or anything else for the customer s enjoyment. The third party content may be presented in a window of the device s display as desired. Content from the third party may be presented in a browser window within the application interface for example using Javascript or similar constructs.

When the content is recognized application suitably contacts a third party service associated with the then showing television content to obtain additional content or to take other actions as appropriate. This contact may be initiated by following a URL or other identifier provided by the content management server or any other source. In the example of a window of the control application interface displays a web page that includes an instant purchase feature e.g. a one click link to a retail site for a product that is being currently advertised on the viewer s television. In this example the viewer could simply click on the active link to be connected to the third party s web service to purchase the item or to take other actions. Other actions could include signing up for a mailing list coupon or free sample. Still other embodiments could use the API to deliver a coupon voucher or the like directly to device for later redemption if the product is a digital product e.g. video audio video game electronic book or similar content then the product may be purchased directly using API . In this example the newly purchased product may be downloaded directly to device or to another device associated with the viewer as desired. Other embodiments could provide video graphics text audio and or other multimedia content to the interface using HTML5 or similar constructs.

As shown in computing device is a computer tablet mobile phone media player or other device based upon conventional hardware such as a processor memory and input output interfaces . Most computing devices operate under control of an operating system that executes applications such a web browser and media control application . In various embodiments browser and media control application may be combined or otherwise integrated so that web and other media can be simultaneously presented on a display. In the embodiment shown in a scripting environment such as JavaScript or the like is provided to execute client side scripts embedded in web content obtained from 3party service or the like.

Media control application typically provides control functionality to programming viewed on one or more of displays A B and or C. That is the user typically uses media control application to change channels control PVR DVR recordings view electronic program guide data and or other features as desired. In various embodiments media control application communicates with services on network to identify currently viewed television content and or to present additional third party content that is associated with the currently viewed television programming. Program content may be identified from data in an electronic program guide provided from content delivery system or content management system for example. Alternatively program content may be identified based upon audio fingerprinting or other factor by communicating with content management system as described below. After content is identified additional third party content that is associated with the identified content can be identified by content management system or the like and a uniform resource locator URL or other address of the associated content can be delivered from content management system no to computing device as desired. Media player and or browser can then use the URL identifier to contact a third party service and obtain additional content related to the currently viewed program for presentation while the viewer is still watching the identified television programming on display A B or C.

Third party content is integrated with the media player application using an appropriate application program interface such as an HTML5 interface or the like. API could facilitate any number of third party applications. In addition to supplemental advertising another service could provide custom video streams e.g. customized highlight reels based upon the user s preferences a video highlight clip featuring the viewer s own fantasy sports picks etc. customized web pages e.g. fantasy sports statistics while the viewer is watching games stock prices while the viewer is watching financial news local news weather etc. gaming audio content messaging social media and or the like. A wide array of applications or features could make use of the newly obtained access to the viewer s second screen while identified programming is being viewed thereby greatly improving the user experience in many different ways.

In the example of remote control application is aware of the content currently being viewed on the television since the viewer uses the application to change channels to select programs on a DVR RSDVR to obtain streaming video and or the like. In further embodiments the application is aware of particular ads or other content currently presented on any of the viewer s displays A C. Application may obtain this information from for example content management system and or video delivery system . Various systems and techniques for determining and sharing the particular contents of a live stream is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 836 688 PRE DISTRIBUTION IDENTIFICATION OF BROADCAST TELEVISION CONTENT USING AUDIO FINGERPRINTS which was filed on the same day as this application and which is incorporated herein by reference. Audio fingerprinting for example could be used to identify currently broadcast advertisements and other content so that applications such as those described herein can know which third parties to contact when the contact is shown on one of the user s television displays A C. In this example the third party information may be provided to remote control application even if the content viewing is place or time shifted since the information is associated with the content itself in management system no rather than the broadcast schedule. In various embodiments information is associated with the particular content of advertisements or other programming rather than with the broadcast itself. This allows for example third party content to be triggered based upon the content of the ad itself rather than the program channel or network that is running the ad. That is active content could be provided to the API whenever the ad was viewed on any display A C regardless of the channel that the ad is running on or the time of broadcast. If an advertiser wants to supplement all of its broadcast ads on any network channel or time with a supplemental web presence for example various embodiments of system would be able to provide such features. Further the content can be identified even if it has been place and or time shifted thereby allowing active content to be made available whenever it is of greatest interest to the user. Rather than relying upon guide data or other static data sources to identify advertisement times and contents then the use of a live content management system can greatly improve the flexibility and usefulness of the system . Moreover the advertiser receives a benefit in that all of its ads can be enhanced with supplemental content regardless of the time or network that is broadcasting the ad.

In various embodiments then content management system no provides information to the application that allows the application to know which advertisements are being played and which third party service if any to contact for additional content. In various embodiments the application provides a user interaction window of its interface that can be made available to third parties via the API . In a typical implementation third party content presented in window is requested from the third party service in HTML5 or similar format. Application suitably formats and presents the received content in interface window using Javascript or similar constructs. Javascript or the like could also be used to handle any viewer interactions inputs or the like that need to be passed from application via API to a server application executing at the third party service .

Television programming may be delivered to displays A B and or C in any manner. In the example of television A receives a conventional cable IPTV broadcast or direct broadcast satellite DBS feed from a receiver such as a conventional set top box STB . Receiver may be in communication with control device to receive instructions for changing channels setting DVR timers and or performing other functions as desired.

Displays A B and or C may additionally or alternately receive television programming via network from a video on demand RSDVR or other network delivery system . In various embodiments system receives broadcast content that is similar to content received by receiver but that is instead encoded e.g. adaptively encoded by encoder and stored with a web server or the like for delivery over network . Adaptively encoded media content may be distributed using an appropriate content delivery network CDN as desired to provide rapid delivery of program segments requested by media player clients throughout network . Program guide data may be provided to computing device from content delivery system content management system another service on network and or via a television receiver e.g. receiver .

Media content management system no suitably includes appropriate computing hardware software and databases to deliver program information as described herein. In various embodiments media content management system accesses a user database to authenticate identify users e.g. current account holders with a DBS cable IPTV or other television delivery service and to identify content viewed by the various viewers. As noted above content may be identified based upon program guide data based upon audio fingerprinting of the actual program being viewed or in any other manner. To that end audio fingerprints or other identifying data about various programs advertisements or other program contents could be stored in database . As applications submit audio segments or other data for identification content management system suitably identifies associated programming and provides the submitting application with URLs or other identifiers of associated third party content.

Third party server suitably includes appropriate computing hardware software and databases to provide a desired service to applications as described herein. In various embodiments server suitably executes a server side application that delivers HTML5 or other web content in response to HTTP or similar requests received from computing devices . Applications may vary from service to service but could include order fulfillment as processed by system delivery of static or dynamic web content multimedia content games and or other content as desired from database .

In practice then control application executes on computing device . User inputs make changes to programming viewed on displays A B and or C as appropriate. Application further communicates with content management service to identify the actual programming that the viewer is watching at any particular time. This programming may represent a program a scene of a program a commercial or the like. After identifying the programming being currently displayed the application is able to obtain using network URLs or the like obtained from content management server associated third party content that can be presented in a window at the same time that the viewer is watching the identified programming. In various embodiments the associated third party content could solicit inputs from the viewer that are returned to an application executed by the third party service . Communications between the computing device and the third party service are handled by an API as appropriate.

With continued reference to remote control application executing on computing device suitably controls the television viewing of one or more television displays A C as described above function . In various embodiments control application provides control instructions to displays A C and or receiver as appropriate to generate desired imagery on the display . Programs may include live broadcasts received from a cable DBS terrestrial IPTV or other broadcast source other programs could include programs obtained from a personal video recorder that is associated with a receiver a remote storage digital video recorder RSDVR accessible via network an on demand or other video streaming service e.g. content delivery service or the like. Control instructions sent from application may be sent directly to a television e.g. smart television C a television receiver to a content delivery service or elsewhere to obtain appropriate television content at the desired video display A C. Again content may be live broadcast or previously recorded as desired.

Remote control application also handles interactions with third party window function using API . In various embodiments the remote control application uses API to provide third party content that is associated with the currently viewed television content as the viewer is watching the content. To that end the remote control application suitably identifies the currently viewed content function obtains an identifier for third party content associated with the identified content function obtains the identified third party content from a third party service functions and manages interactions between the user and the third party content function as appropriate.

As noted above application identifies the currently viewed content in any manner function . In the example of application identifies the content by providing an audio fingerprint or other portion of the actual program content itself to management service . In other embodiments identification data may be provided with electronic program guide data or other information available to application so that application is able to identify the currently viewed programming itself without additional query to content management service . In such embodiments application may identify the program to the content management service no to obtain supplemental content associated with the identified program.

In various embodiments content management service maintains a database of information that allows identification of programs e.g. from audio fingerprints or other biometric data supplied by application ion . Service additionally maintains a database of URLs or other addresses identifiers that allow application to locate supplemental content associated with the identified program via network . These URLs identifiers are appropriately delivered to application function in response to received queries .

Having thus received an identifier for content associated with currently viewed programming application is able to obtain the identified content from third party server function . Content may be requested using conventional HTTP constructs for example or other interaction with application as desired. Third party server suitably obtains the requested content and delivers it to the control application via network as appropriate function .

Third party content is rendered to the viewer in window or elsewhere as appropriate . As noted above application suitably includes API that provides an HTML5 or other interface between the third party service and the application . To that end application suitably renders imagery or other media to the API window function and processes an inputs received from the API window function as desired. User interaction function with the API window may include clicking on a purchase button requesting additional information responding to requests for information controlling a media stream supplied by third party service and or any other interactions as desired. Inputs received from the user interaction are appropriately forwarded to the third party service function to thereby allow the remote service to process the input function as desired.

To continue the example above an advertisement for a product e.g. Zot can be recognized as the television ad is presented on a display A C controlled by application . This recognition may take place even if the currently viewed content has been time or place shifted as desired. The application recognizing the currently viewed program then obtains a URL or other identifier from content management service and then uses the identifier to request third party content to be presented in a separate window as the identified programming is still being presented on the viewer s display A C. Content is processed using a suitable API that allows third party content to be safely and securely received. Any user inputs e.g. an input authorizing purchase of an advertised product are also handled via the API for forwarding to the third party system as appropriate.

The foregoing discussion therefore considers several different systems devices and methods. These general concepts may be expanded or modified as desired to create any number of alternate but equivalent embodiments. Although advertisements are often discussed above as one example that could be supplemented with third party content equivalent concepts could be provided to the television programs themselves or any portion of the programs. A fantasy sports application for example could provide user specific data in window while the viewer is watching a game. Other applications could provide supplemental information about the currently viewed movie or show or actors or actresses appearing in the show or any other data about the program itself. Still other applications could provide interactive games streaming video e.g. HLS video or other content in HTML5 or other format.

The term exemplary is used herein to represent one example instance or illustration that may have any number of alternates. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. While several exemplary embodiments have been presented in the foregoing detailed description it should be appreciated that a vast number of alternate but equivalent variations exist and the examples presented herein are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. To the contrary various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements described without departing from the scope of the claims and their legal equivalents.

