---

title: Balancing mask loading
abstract: Among other things, techniques for balancing mask loading are provided for herein. In some embodiments, one or more windows are defined within a layout. Based upon polygons comprised within respective windows, a localized mask loading is computed for the layout. In some embodiments, a global mask loading is also computed for the layout. Using the localized mask loading and the global mask loading, if computed, a loading effect of a plurality of mask pattern schemes is evaluated to identify a mask pattern scheme having a desired loading effect.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360750&OS=09360750&RS=09360750
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09360750
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140609
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims benefit to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 045 filed on Oct. 19 2012 and titled BALANCING MASK LOADING which is a non provisional filing of U.S. Patent Application 61 695 651 filed on Aug. 31 2012 and titled BALANCING MASK LOADING. This application is also a non provisional filing of U.S. Patent Application 61 996 927 filed on May 19 2014 and titled BALANCING MASK LOADING. U.S. patent applications Ser. Nos. 13 656 045 61 695 651 and 61 996 927 are incorporated herein by reference.

Multiple patterning lithography MPL uses multiple masks to print layout geometries when forming a semiconductor device. Respective masks comprise one or more holes or transparencies that allow light to shine through in a defined pattern. The pattern of light is directed onto an underlying layer to form polygons of a layout geometry at least one of in on or from the underlying layer.

Mask loading refers to a distribution of holes across the multiple masks in MPL. An uneven distribution also referred to as an unbalanced mask loading refers to a situation where a total area of holes in a first mask is disproportionate to a total area of holes in a second mask such that a total area of polygons formed by the first mask is disproportionate to a total area of polygons formed by the second mask. Such uneven distribution is associated with process variation and a low yield for example.

The following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the provided subject matter. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. For example the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed between the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

Systems and techniques for balancing mask loading are provided. A load or mask load is used herein to refer to a distribution of polygons in terms of area across two or more masks. For a defined region the mask load is zero or the load is balanced when an area of polygons within the defined region assigned to a first mask is equal to the area of polygons within the defined region assigned to respective other masks. For example where polygons within a defined region are formed using two masks the load is balanced when an area of polygons assigned to the first mask is equal to an area of polygons assigned to a second mask.

According to some embodiments a design layout also referred to as a layout or mask layout is received. The layout describes the locations where a set of polygons are to be formed at least one of in on or from a layer of a semiconductor device such as a metal layer and is used to develop the masks by which the polygons are formed.

In some embodiments two or more masks are used to form the set of polygons due to among other things the spatial relationship between polygons. For example a distance between two polygons may be too small to provide for forming both polygons by a same mask. Accordingly one of the polygons is formed using a first mask and the other polygon is formed using a second mask. In a double patterning lithography process respective polygons are assigned to one of two masks. In other multiple patterning lithography processes more than two masks are used to form polygons.

In some embodiments the layout is divided into a plurality of overlapping or non overlapping windows to balance the load between masks. For respective windows a degree of balance within the window is determined for respective mask pattern schemes where a mask pattern scheme refers to which polygons are formed by which masks. Based upon the degree of balance within respective windows which is at times referred to as a localized balance or localized mask loading a mask pattern scheme is selected for the layout and polygons are assigned to masks according to the mask pattern scheme. Further in some embodiments a degree of balance within the layout as a whole is determined for respective mask pattern schemes. In such embodiments the degree of balance within the layout which is at times referred to as a global balance or global mask loading is also taken into consideration when selecting the mask pattern scheme.

Referring to a method for localized mask balancing is provided. are further provided to illustrate the acts described with respect to the method .

The method comprises receiving a layout at such as the layout of . The layout provides information regarding a set of polygons such as that are to be formed for a semiconductor device. Such information includes the location of respective polygons dimensions of respective polygons etc. In some embodiments such information also includes a mask assignment for one or more polygons detailing which mask or masks of a plurality of masks are to be used to form the one or more polygons. In the layout none of the polygons have been pre assigned to a mask as indicated by the lack of fill within the polygons .

At in the example method one or more color nets are identified within the layout. A color net describes a dependency between polygons with respect to mask assignments. For example the mask assignment for a polygon is dependent upon a mask assignment for another polygon because a distance between the polygons is less than a spacing threshold and thus the polygons cannot be formed by a same mask. Therefore if the polygon is to be formed by a first mask the other polygon cannot be formed by the first mask.

Referring to color nets such as are identified in the layout . Branches such as extend between polygons to illustrate dependencies between polygons. A first color net comprises a first polygon a second polygon and a third polygon where a masking assignment for the second polygon is dependent upon a masking assignment for the first polygon as represented by a first branch and a masking assignment for the third polygon is dependent upon a masking assignment for the second polygons as represented by a second branch . For example a distance between the first polygon and the second polygon is less than the spacing threshold and thus the first branch connects the two polygons to indicate that the first polygon and the second polygon must be formed by different masks. As another example a distance between the second polygon and the third polygon is less than the spacing threshold and thus the second polygon must be formed using a different mask than the third polygon . As evident by the lack of a branch connecting the first polygon and the third polygon a spacing between the first polygon and the third polygon satisfies the spacing threshold. Therefore the first polygon and the third polygon can be formed by the same mask.

In a double patterning lithography process where two masks are available to form polygons the polygons in a color net are assigned to masks in a flip flopping order. For example if the first polygon of the first color net is assigned to a first mask the second polygon is assigned to a second mask and the third polygon is assigned to the first mask. If the first polygon is assigned to the second mask the second polygon is assigned to the first mask and the third polygon is assigned to the second mask.

As further illustrated by a mask assignment for a polygon is not necessarily dependent upon the mask assignment for another polygon. For example a second color net comprises merely one polygon because the mask assignment for the polygon is not dependent upon the mask assignments of other polygons.

While the method describes identifying color nets as an action to be performed after the layout is received in some embodiments the received layout comprises the color nets. Accordingly the action described at is optional in some embodiments.

At in the example method one or more windows are defined in the layout. The windows respectively define a localized region of the layout and are used to compute a window mask loading on a region by region basis. Properties of the windows such as shape size position relative to the layout etc. can be pre defined selected at random manually defined by a user when viewing the layout selected as a function of the semiconductor device etc. For example in some semiconductor devices performance deviations within a first region are more tolerable than performance deviations within a second region. Accordingly windows can be defined to focus on the first region to provide finer granularity in regards to mask balancing in one region as compared to another region in some embodiments.

Referring to the layout is illustrated as having windows such as and imposed thereon. Respective windows define a region of the layout . For example a first window defines a bottom region of the layout and a second window defines a top region of the layout . In the illustration the windows are non overlapping. However in some embodiments at least one window overlaps another window. Moreover while the illustration provides for having windows imposed over substantially the entire region in some embodiments at least some portions of the layout are not comprised within a window.

In some embodiments the windows dissect a color net or dissect a polygon. For example in a portion of a third color net is situated within the first window and another portion of the third color net is situated within the second window . As another example in a portion of the third polygon is situated within the first window and another portion of the third polygon is situated within the second window . In still other embodiments the windows are shaped to at least one of avoid dissecting a color net or avoid dissecting a polygon.

In some embodiments one or more windows are sized differently than one or more other windows and thus an area of the layout defined by a first window such as the first window is larger than an area of the layout defined by a second window such as the second window . In other embodiments the windows are substantially uniformly sized and thus the area defined by respective windows is substantially equal.

At in the example method a first localized mask loading is computed to determine a localized balance if a first mask pattern scheme is assigned to a layout. The first localized mask loading is indicative of the degree of balance in the first window and the degree of balance in the second window if the polygons are assigned to the masks according to the first mask pattern scheme.

By way of example referring to the layout is illustrated having imposed thereon the windows defined at in the example method . Polygons have been assigned to a mask based upon the first mask pattern scheme. For example according to the first mask pattern scheme a first subset of polygons and represented by the darkened pattern is to be formed by a first mask and a second subset of polygons and represented by the lightly dotted pattern is to be formed by a second mask.

To further illustrate mask loading a numerical value has been inserted into respective polygons to provide an example area of respective polygons. The area corresponds to a load the polygon places on a mask that forms the polygon. For example the first polygon places a load of 4 units on the first mask. As another example the second polygon places a load of 4 units on the second mask. As another example the third polygon places a load of 4 units divided across two windows and on the first mask.

To compute a localized mask loading for the plurality of windows a window mask loading for respective windows is computed. The window mask loading corresponds to a degree of balance in a window. For example to compute the window mask loading for the first window the total area of polygons assigned to the second mask within the first window is subtracted from the total area of polygons assigned to the first mask within the first window . Thus in the instant example the window mask loading for the first window would equal 5 units 4 2 3 4 for the first mask pattern scheme. To compute the window mask loading for the second window the total area of polygons assigned to the second mask within the second window is subtracted from the total area of polygons assigned to the first mask within the first window . Thus in the instant example the window mask loading for the second window would equal 5 units 1 2 4 for the first mask pattern scheme. In some embodiments the window mask loading for respective windows is expressed in absolute values and thus the first window and the second window would respectively have a window mask loading equal to 5 units.

In some embodiments the localized mask loading is computed based upon the first window mask loading and the second window mask loading. For example the absolute value of the first window mask loading for the first window is summed with the absolute value of the second window mask loading for the second window to yield a first localized mask loading of 10 units 5 5 for the first mask pattern scheme.

At in the example method a second localized mask loading is computed to determine a localized balance if a second mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout. The second localized mask loading is indicative of the degree of balance in the first window and the degree of balance in the second window if the polygons are assigned to the masks according to the second mask pattern scheme.

By way of example referring to the polygons have been assigned to masks based upon the second mask pattern scheme. According to the second mask pattern scheme a third subset of polygons and is to be formed by the first mask and a fourth subset of polygons and is to be formed by the second mask.

Due to the difference in assignments between the first mask pattern scheme and the second mask pattern scheme the window masking loading for one or more windows can differ between the first mask pattern scheme and the second mask pattern scheme. By way of example the first window mask loading for the first window is equal to 1 unit 4 3 4 2 for the second mask pattern scheme as opposed to 5 units for the first mask pattern scheme. As another example the window mask loading for the second window is equal to 1 units 2 1 4 for the second mask pattern scheme as opposed to 5 units for the first mask pattern scheme.

The difference in assignments between the first mask pattern scheme and the second mask pattern scheme can also cause a difference in the localized mask loading. For example the second localized mask loading for the second mask pattern scheme would equal 2 units 1 1 as opposed to 10 units for the first mask pattern scheme.

At in the method the first mask pattern scheme or the second mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout based upon the first localized mask loading and the second localized masking loading. By way of example in some embodiments the closer a localized mask loading is to zero the higher the degree of balance when viewed on a window by window basis. Accordingly the first mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout when the first localized mask loading is less than the second localized mask loading and thus closer to zero. Conversely the second mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout when the second localized mask loading is less than the first localized mask loading.

In some embodiments the acts of computing a first localized mask loading computing a second localized mask loading and assigning are performed according to the following equation min 1 where n equals the number of windows and wequals the window mask loading for window w.

According to such an equation wis the localized mask loading for a given mask pattern scheme and min wis equal to the minimum localized mask loading that is possible for the layout.

While the method merely compares the localized mask loadings of two mask pattern schemes the number of comparisons is greater than two in some embodiments. For example in some embodiments the number of possible mask pattern schemes is a function of a number of color nets identified in the layout and a localized mask loading is computed for respective mask pattern schemes. Accordingly in some embodiments the number of mask loadings that is compared at is a function of the number of possible mask pattern schemes which is a function of a number of color nets within the layout.

In some embodiments balancing the mask load within a first region of a layout is more important than balancing the mask load within a second region of the layout. In such embodiments a weighting factor is applied to respective windows based upon the importance of balancing the mask load within the region. For example if a region represented by a first window is more sensitive to an imbalance between masks than a region represented by a second window then a weighting factor of two for example is applied to a first window mask loading for the first window and a weighting factor of one for example is applied to a second window mask loading for the second window. In this way the localized mask loading is more heavily impacted by the first window mask loading than by the second window mask loading.

As an example returning to the second mask pattern scheme illustrated by the first window mask loading for the first window equaled 1 unit and the second window mask loading for the second window equaled 1 units. If balancing a region represented by the first window is more important than balancing a region represented by the second window the first window mask loading can be assigned a weight of 2 while the second window mask loading is assigned a weight of 1. Accordingly the localized mask loading for the second mask pattern scheme would equal 3 units 2 1 1 1 where the first window mask loading has a greater impact on the value of the localized mask loading than the second window mask loading.

In some embodiments where windows are weighted differently equation 1 is modified as follows min 2 where wtrepresents a weighting factor of window w.

While the method considers localized mask loading by computing the loading on a window by window basis in some embodiments a global mask loading of the layout as a whole is also taken into consideration when selecting a desired mask pattern scheme. Thus the layout having the lowest localized mask loading is not selected in some embodiments.

By way of example referring to the second localized mask loading for the second mask pattern scheme equaled 2 units. However when the layout is considered as a whole by finding the difference between an area for polygons assigned to the first mask and an area for polygons assigned to the second mask the global mask loading is 0 units 4 3 1 2 4 2 4 .

To take into consideration the global balance also referred to as the global mask loading equation 1 is modified as follows min area Chip 3 where m equals the number of color nets identified within the layout and area Chip is equal to a difference between an area of polygons assigned to the first mask and an area of polygons assigned to the second mask within the layout.

In some embodiments there is a preference to weight localized balance over global balance and thus the localized masking loading is assigned a weight that is greater than the global mask loading when determining a loading effect of a mask pattern scheme. In other embodiments there is a preference to weight global balance over localized balance and thus the global mask loading is assigned a weight that is greater than the localized mask loading when determining a loading effect of a mask pattern scheme. A loading effect at times refers to the value that is computed when the global mask loading is combined with the localized mask loading to determine a degree of balance that a mask pattern scheme offers.

In some embodiments where consideration is given for weighting localized balance over global balance or vice versa equation 3 is modified as follows min area Chip 4 where Wrepresents a weight assigned to the localized balance and Wrepresents to a weight assigned to the global balance.

Referring to a method for balancing mask loading according to some embodiments is provided. For purposes of brevity acts of method that are also included in the method are not further described in detail.

At a layout is received. The layout indicates the placement and area of one more polygons to be formed for a semiconductor device. In some embodiments at least some of the polygons are pre assigned to specific masks and are thus expected to be formed using those masks. In other embodiments none of the polygons are pre assigned to specific masks.

One or more windows are defined within the layout at and one or more color nets are identified at in the example method . In some embodiments defining the windows and identifying the color nets are performed in series. In some embodiments defining the windows and identifying the color nets are performed in parallel. In some embodiments the color nets are identified prior to receiving the layout and thus the act of identifying color nets at is not performed.

At in the example method a relationship between the color nets and the windows is analyzed to determine a cost function for the layout where the cost function is based upon equations 1 4 above depending upon at least one of whether it is desirable to weight some windows differently than other windows whether a global mask loading is taken into consideration or whether a global mask loading is weighted differently than a localized mask loading.

In some embodiments to reduce the computational cost of determining a desired mask pattern scheme when a multitude of schemes are available one or more computation reducing procedures are applied while the relationship between the color nets and the windows is analyzed at . By way of example in some embodiments a window splitting technique is performed at to reduce the number of color nets within a layout. Window splitting refers to grouping windows and treating respective groups of windows as a different layout. A group of windows generally corresponds to windows that share one or more color nets. By way of example referring to a second window of a layout can be separated from windows and of the layout and can be treated as a separate layout for purposes of determining a desired mask pattern scheme because no polygons of the second window are part of a color net that extends into another window. The other three windows and of the layout are grouped together and analyzed together because a first color net extends between the first window and the third window and because a second color net extends between the third window and the fourth window

In some embodiments a color net filtering process is performed at to reduce the number of color nets that are evaluated when computing a localized mask loading or a global mask loading. A color net filtering process refers to the filtering of color nets that contribute a similar mask load to a window regardless of the mask pattern scheme that is used. For example if a color net is comprised of two polygons that are situated within a window and the first polygon corresponding to an area of 4 units and the second polygon corresponding to an area of 4 units then regardless of the scheme selected the color net will contribute a mask load of 0 units to the window. Accordingly using the color net filtering process such a color net is filtered out of the layout for purposes of determining a desired mask pattern scheme.

A result of the analyzing at is one or more window groups if window splitting has been applied and a corresponding cost function providing an equation for determining a desired mask pattern scheme.

At in the example method a selection algorithm is applied to determine a mask pattern scheme for respective window groups or to the layout when window splitting has not been applied to determine a desired mask pattern scheme for respective window groups or for the layout. For example in some embodiments the selection algorithm is configured to identify the mask pattern scheme that results in the lowest loading effect when consideration is given to localized mask loading weighted or non weighted and global mask loading weighted or non weighted. Example algorithms include integer linear programming dynamic programming simplex algorithm combinatorial algorithms quasi Newton algorithms conjugate gradient algorithms interior point algorithms gradient descent algorithms sub gradient algorithms bundle method of descent algorithms ellipsoid method algorithms reduced gradient method algorithms simultaneous perturbation stochastic approximation algorithms pattern search algorithms memetic algorithms differential evolution algorithms differential search algorithms dynamic relaxation algorithms simulated annealing algorithms genetic algorithms hill climbing algorithms Nelder Mead simplicial heuristic algorithms particle swarm optimization algorithms artificial bee colony optimization algorithms tabu search algorithms reactive Search optimization algorithms etc.

A result of the example selection algorithm that is applied at is a mask pattern scheme for respective window groups or for the layout that achieves a desired loading effect such as achieves the lowest loading effect when consideration is given to the localized mask loading and the global mask loading.

In some embodiments if the layout remains unbalanced when the mask pattern scheme s selected by the selection algorithm is applied the layout is updated at to further balance the mask loading and an updated layout is generated. In some embodiments the layout is balanced using dummies that are inserted into one or more windows such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 045. In some embodiments the updated layout is generated manually by a designer of the layout or an implementer of the layout.

The layout in this example comprises three windows and . The third window overlaps the first window and the second window . For purposes of this example assume the first window is weighted twice as much as the second window and the third window . Moreover assume that localized mask loading is weighted three times more than global mask loading.

The layout comprises two color nets and . The possible mask pattern schemes for the layout are illustrated by . Referring to a numerical value has been inserted into respective polygons to provide an example area of respective polygons. The area corresponds to a load the polygon places on a mask that forms the polygon.

Using the following assumptions an area difference within respective windows attributable to respective color nets is computed. For example referring to the area difference for a first portion of the first color net comprised within the first window is 2 units 2 0 the area difference for a second portion of the first color net comprised within the second window is 3 units 0 3 and the area difference for a third portion of the first color net comprised within the third window is 1 units 2 3 . With respect to the second color net the area difference for a first portion of the second color net comprised within the second window is 3 units 4 1 . The second color net is not situated within the first window or the third window and thus does not contribute to the first window or the third window . These calculations stay constant regardless of the mask pattern selected as will be seen in the follow paragraphs.

Additionally a color pattern is assigned a value for respective mask pattern schemes for a color net. In a double pattern lithography process where merely two mask pattern schemes are possible for a color net a first mask pattern scheme is assigned 1 and a second mask pattern scheme is assigned 1 for respective color nets. By way of example with respect to the first color net the mask pattern scheme illustrated in is assigned a 1 and the mask pattern scheme illustrated in is assigned a 1. With respect to the second color net the mask pattern scheme illustrated by is assigned a 1 and the mask pattern scheme illustrated in is assigned a 1.

For respective mask pattern schemes of a layout the cost function is analyzed to find an overall loading effect for the mask pattern scheme when weighted according to the above referenced weighting scheme. For example plugging into equation 5 values for a first mask pattern scheme illustrated by the loading effect would be 3 2 1 2 1 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 17 Plugging into equation 5 values for a second mask pattern scheme illustrated by the loading effect would be 3 2 1 2 1 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 1 3 37

Plugging into equation 5 values for a third mask pattern scheme illustrated by the loading effect would be 3 2 1 2 1 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 37 Plugging into equation 5 values for a fourth mask pattern scheme illustrated by the loading effect would be 3 2 1 2 1 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 17

Accordingly using equation 5 for the four mask pattern scheme the four mask pattern schemes can be evaluated to determine a desired mask pattern scheme for the layout given the weighting of respective windows weighting of the localized mask loading and weighting of the global mask loading. In embodiments where a mask pattern scheme having a lowest value is selected the first mask pattern scheme or the fourth mask pattern scheme could be selected because both the first mask pattern scheme and the fourth mask pattern scheme resulted in a final loading effect of 17 when the desired weights were applied.

While the foregoing example provides for identifying a desired mask pattern scheme for a double patterning lithography process where merely two masks are used the techniques described herein also find applicability to multiple patterning lithography processes where more than two masks are used. For example in a multiple patterning lithography process equation 5 can be modified as follows to compute a loading effect when more than two masks are used min area diff CHIP where w area diff G G w Wrepresents a weight applied to a local balance Wrepresents a weight applied to a global balance wtrepresents a weighting factor of window w wrepresents a value of localized mask loading area diff G G w represents an area difference for a group of color nets G under their corresponding group of color patterns G within the window w m is number of color nets in the layout and n is number of windows in the layout.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of processor executable instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein when executed by a processor. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of at least one of the method of or the method of . Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In some embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to some aspects a method is provided. The method comprises receiving a layout comprising a set of polygons associated with a semiconductor device and defining a first window within the layout a first subset of the set at least partially situated within the first window. The method also comprises defining a second window within the layout a second subset of the set at least partially situated within the second window and computing a first localized mask loading for the first window and the second window if a first mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout. The method also comprises computing a second localized mask loading for the first window and the second window if a second mask pattern scheme is assigned to the layout and assigning the first mask pattern scheme or the second mask pattern scheme to the layout based upon the first localized mask loading and the second localized mask loading.

According to some aspects a method is provided. The method comprises receiving a layout comprising a set of polygons associated with a semiconductor device and defining a plurality of windows within the layout a first subset of the set at least partially situated within a first window of the plurality. For a first mask pattern scheme the method also comprises determining a first window mask loading for the first window and determining a first global mask loading for the layout. The method also comprises using the first window mask loading and the first global mask loading to evaluate a loading effect of the first mask pattern scheme on the layout.

According to some aspects a method is provided. The method comprises receiving a layout comprising a set of polygons associated with a semiconductor device defining a first window within the layout a first subset of the set at least partially situated within the first window and defining a second window within the layout a second subset of the set at least partially situated within the second window. For a first mask pattern scheme the method comprises computing a first window mask loading for the first window and computing a second window mask loading for the second window. For the first mask pattern scheme the method also comprises applying a first window weight to the first window mask loading to yield a first weighted window mask loading and applying a second window weight to the second window mask loading to yield a second weighted window mask loading. For the first mask pattern scheme the method also comprises summing the first weighted window mask loading and the second weighted window mask loading to yield a first localized mask loading computing a first global mask loading for the layout and summing the first localized mask loading and the first global mask loading to yield a first loading effect. For a second mask pattern scheme the method comprises computing a third window mask loading for the first window and computing a fourth window mask loading for the second window. For the second mask pattern scheme the method also comprises applying the first window weight to the third window mask loading to yield a third weighted window mask loading and applying the second window weight to the fourth window mask loading to yield a fourth weighted window mask loading. For the second mask pattern scheme the method also comprises summing the third weighted window mask loading and the fourth weighted window mask loading to yield a second localized mask loading computing a second global mask loading for the layout and summing the second localized mask loading and the second global mask loading to yield a second loading effect. The method also comprises assigning the first mask pattern scheme or the second mask pattern scheme to the layout based upon the first loading effect and the second loading effect.

The foregoing outlines features of several embodiments so that those of ordinary skill in the art may better understand various aspects of the present disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of various embodiments introduced herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application and the appended claims are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising . Also unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first element and a second element generally correspond to element A and element B or two different or two identical elements or the same element.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others of ordinary skill in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure comprises all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

