---

title: Train safety system
abstract: A method and system for assisting the safe operation of a train adapted to be operated by a locomotive operating crew comprises generating GPS-located critical information at a central location, the GPS-located critical information being based at least in part on one or more railroad maps and one or more train dispatcher information systems; monitoring the real-time location of the train with a GPS device on-board the train; and generating alerts for the locomotive operating crew based on the GPS-located critical information and the real time location of the train, so that the crew is alerted as to upcoming changes to be implemented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428202&OS=09428202&RS=09428202
owner: Via Rail Canada Inc.
number: 09428202
owner_city: Montreal, Quebec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140822
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 979 692 filed Apr. 15 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In accordance with one embodiment a method of assisting the safe operation of a train adapted to be operated by a locomotive operating crew comprises a generating GPS located critical information at a central location the GPS located critical information being based at least in part on one or more railroad maps and one or more train dispatcher information systems b monitoring the real time location of the train with a GPS device on board the train and c generating alerts for the locomotive operating crew based on the GPS located critical information and the real time location of the train so that the crew is alerted as to upcoming changes to be implemented.

In accordance with another embodiment a safety system safety system for a train having a locomotive operating crew comprises a a database containing one or more railroad maps and one or more train dispatcher information systems b a central server adapted to be at least intermittently coupled to the database to generate GPS located critical information c a GPS device on board the train to monitor the real time location of the train and d a computer on board the train and adapted to be at least intermittently coupled to the central server and the GPS device for executing an application utilizing the GPS located critical information and the real time location of the train wherein the application generates alerts for the locomotive operating crew based on the GPS located critical information and the real time location of the train so that the crew is alerted as to upcoming changes to be implemented.

The foregoing and additional aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the detailed description of various embodiments and or aspects which is made with reference to the drawings a brief description of which is provided next.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments or implementations have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. It should be understood however that the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of an invention as defined by the appended claims.

The Train Safety System TSS is a system designed to help the locomotive operating crew LOC comprising In Charge Locomotive Engineer Locomotive Engineer train driver train conductor or train driver assistant train driver trainee or any person involved in operating the train with driving the train and to reduce the risk of losing geographical reference being unsure of the location of the train along the route missing a signal over speeding or losing track of any other restriction i.e. work zone authority limits any of which could lead to a severe accident. The system can be classified as a safety overlay on the existing railway operating procedures and safety systems and can be deployed without requiring additional capabilities on the railroad infrastructure e.g. new transponders . The system is based on ICT Information and Communication Technology . The system applies ICT and human factors design to reduce the cognitive and memory demands on the locomotive driver as well as to mitigate the consequences of human error in the operation of the train.

Referring to the TSS comprises a Central System or central information server communicating with one or more trains . . . over the Internet or private data network. Each train . . . is equipped with one or more in cabin devices executing the in cabin TSS application . . . . The TSS Application . . . uses one or more wireless interface s such as cellular 3G 4G LTE or other cellular data communication capability WIFI or a satellite interface or a combination thereof to connect to the Internet or any other means of connecting to the Internet . The TSS Application . . . may include a train control interface to optionally perform functions directly on the train controls. The central information server interfaces with existing track management systems . In order to work on different railways independent of the railroad infrastructure including where the trip crosses railway jurisdictions the TSS uses a database track database containing a detailed base map of the contemplated railways a geo positioning GPS coordinates along with associated milepost of all the elements which could affect the movement of trains a braking calculator and a set of predefined alerts. The TSS central information server retrieves stores and updates operational information such as the Railway Operating Rules General Bulletin Orders GBO Tabular General Bulletin Orders TGBO Daily Bulletin Orders DBO Daily Track Bulletin and any other types or rules and bulletins applicable to a given railway system and applicable restrictions for train operations. A General Bulletin Order provides operating guidelines e.g. speed restrictions for a particular stretch of track a notice of the presence of track workers at a particular milepost for a train or engine. A Tabular General Bulletin Order provides in a tabular format all the GBOs that apply to a specific train or engine along a specified section of its route. The system aligns the mile post information in the operating timetables bulletins and orders with the corresponding GPS coordinates using the railway map to generate GPS located critical information. The conversion can be done in the TSS application or in the TSS central system. The GPS located critical information can then be tracked by the GPS device located on the train without requiring further connectivity with the central server.

The TSS Application provides a LOC via a graphical user interface GUI with an interactive networked data communications and display system in the locomotive cabins. The GUI shows location speed guidance automated alerts and other timely information needed in the course of locomotive operation. The LOC has all the information required to fulfill their duties in the safest way possible delivered to them as it becomes relevant to the operation of the train.

The system is capable of activating train braking systems for example penalty brakes an automated train braking system that can be engaged in pre determined circumstances to over ride the manual controls and gradually stop the train in a safe and controlled manner in the event that the LOC fail to follow established railway operating procedures providing an enhanced fail safe function for the operation of locomotives. This capability greatly reduces the risk of human error resulting in a catastrophic outcome.

As per FIG. the primary information feeds required for TSS are the GBOs and TGBOs provided by train dispatchers. The TSS central system receives XML documents from the train dispatchers parses the contents stores the information in the database and provides the information to the pertinent TSS Application devices. The train dispatchers also provide operating timetables which provide information on permanent speed restrictions and what radio frequencies should be used for a given track segment.

The TSS is connected to the train dispatcher back end system using machine to machine communication to extract real time train route crossover switch position and other information that further enhances the ability to predict avert and detect human procedural errors and increase interactivity response validation.

Before the crew is on duty the GBOs are pushed to an on board computer running the TSS Application . . . . This punctual information is added to that already included in the base map. The train consist information locomotives and cars numbers length type and weight is pushed to the system allowing it to calculate for example braking curves.

When the crew reports for duty they get a copy of a TGBO for their train perform their briefing and all other preparatory duties as they do today. Then they go to the train and perform all the required tests and inspections as today.

The TSS Application is similar to a GPS device for automobiles that displays a map with the location of the train relative to pertinent signals crossings etc. and provides guidance to the LOC . The TSS Application provides a GUI that informs LOCs of applicable speed limits radio frequencies for communications with train dispatchers information from published timetables and other pertinent operating information. It also provides the option to display an animated map displaying the position of the train relative to upcoming switches signals crossings hot box detectors dragging equipment and any other pertinent waypoint or control point information using both text and graphics. The application also provides audible cues to ensure the LOC is alerted to essential information such as a change in the speed limit. LOCs also have the ability to interact with the application using an optional touch screen and the application is capable of recording audio responses from the LOC minimizing or avoiding the need for the LOC to type information or to write notes as is currently done.

The TSS Application provides timely information and alerts to the LOC to raise awareness of approaching signals speed limit changes waypoints control points etc. This information facilitates the work of the LOC enabling them to focus their attention on appropriate locomotive operations.

The train dispatchers provide GBO and TGBO information in the form of an XML file. The TSS central system has the capability to receive the GBO and TGBO messages parse the XML data to manage within the database and then synchronize the data with the TSSs. This data includes pertinent train operations information such as applicable speed limit applicable location mile post date and time of speed restrictions which are translated into GPS located critical information and track maintenance procedures.

Operations timetables provided by train dispatchers are entered into the TSS manually with a database editor. In embodiments the system is designed to facilitate adding information feeds from train dispatchers throughout the system evolution.

ODBS Operations Database System stores information regarding train schedules along with locomotive and consist assignment information. For each train number a locomotive and consist are assigned. While the assignments are typically done well in advance changes can be made last minute due to changes in operational requirements or equipment maintenance issues. ODBS is the operator s application for managing rolling stock specifically managing locomotive and consist information for each train. The information in the ODBS required by the TSS includes train schedules with equipment assignments per train including what locomotives and consist are assigned to each scheduled train.

The TSS receives the schedule and equipment assignment information from ODBS in a timely manner updates are received often for example every 15 minutes. This assures that last minute changes are effectively captured. ODBS interfaces are typically done using file transfer FTP solutions. This information may be more easily accessible from ODS BI systems that are currently being implemented.

As per the TSS Application provides bi directional data communication interfaces for Internet access comprising for example one or more of 

The TSS Application uses Internet access to establish connectivity to the TSS central systems. The failover between network access types is automatic.

As there remains a risk of losing connectivity the TSS Application design takes into consideration that the complete functionality be available when network connectivity is interrupted. A local database for operational information management is used.

Some facilities like train and refueling stations or maintenance centers are equipped with private WiFi Access Points. This communication path is detected and used when available. All data bulk transfer should take advantage of this connectivity in order to reduce operational costs.

If no communication facilities are available TSS Application generated data is then stored on the device to maintain full functionality without connectivity. Sufficient hard drive space for at least one week of data storage is required.

All communication sessions WiFi HSPA LTE or Satellite are established with a secure and authenticated process e.g. SSL or IPsec VPN .

An interface is used between the TSS Application and the GPS installed in the locomotive. The interface provides the TSS Application with precise location information at a frequency of no less than once per second 1 Hz .

The TSS Central System receives information feeds from each of the train dispatchers managing rail used by the operator. While the primary requirement is to receive GBO and TGBO files from the dispatcher systems development requires two way messaging between TSS and the train dispatchers. The TSS central system also interfaces with specific operations systems including ODBS and a TSI.

To operate across multiple railways the TSS uses a detailed base map of the routes a sufficiently precise geo positioning of all the elements that affect the movement of trains all the applicable GBOs a set of predefined alerts visual and audible and finally an enhanced speedometer display. Thus there is no need for additional capability to be deployed on the physical train track system.

The GBOs are pushed to the on board computer the timely information is added to the elements already included in the base map. The train consist information locomotives and cars numbers length type and weight is pushed to the system.

As per the login screen allows the LOC to log in with a user name and password. A verification of the actual paper version consist information versus the information present in the TSS Application is necessary in order to ensure that the various vectors are accurate.

As TGBO information is vital to the safe operation of the train the LOCs validate that the TGBO information loaded and presented by the system is consistent with the TGBO paper copies produced for the LOCs following the current process. As per using the TGBO conformity screen the LOCs also compare the paper copy of the TGBO with the version contained in TSS Application. A text box showing the last update date and time for the TGBO is included to the TGBO conformity screen. When the TGBO information is not 100 complete and accurate the LOCs do not use the system during the trip. In some cases of a TGBO inconsistency it may be possible for TSS to request a correction so that TSS may be used during the trip.

Once the TGBO conformity verification is complete the primary system display is visible. Optionally the map animation option may not be available when in the vicinity of major train stations due to the complexity of managing a large number of diverse tracks.

As the train proceeds the TSS shows the train progression on the optional rolling map . The map is visible on one or more screens at the option of each user e.g. users may find it helpful in cases where visibility is reduced by fog snow or other conditions. When the train approaches a block signal the LOC interprets the signal and presses on the speed . . . associated with the signal. The train braking system can adjust the braking curve accordingly. The application is aware of the location of block signals and it can detect if the LOC has not pressed a speed when approaching a signal. An alarm can be triggered to indicate to the LOC that a block signal needs to be interpreted.

The onboard TSS Application provides audio alerts in addition to the visual display alerts for some specific upcoming restrictions locations or conditions. Auditory alerts and alarms are digital audio files played on a speaker at a volume loud enough to alert the engineer of upcoming warnings. For alarms the sound is played until the condition returns to normal. For notification the sound is played once to direct the crew s attention to the screen for new information.

During regular train operations LOCs receives GBOs or other restrictions as by a foreman named in a Planned Protection Rule by radio. These restrictions are entered into the manual restriction input screen shown as example in .

The manual restriction input screen allows the LOC to enter pertinent restriction information received say over a radio call from the dispatcher into the TSS Application. The TSS is then able to provide the appropriate instructions to the LOCs at the appropriate time based on the information entered. The screen is designed to facilitate quick and easy entry of typical information and restrictions provided by radio during operation.

Once the final destination has been reached the trip operation mode of the TSS ends and the trip close screen displays.

The TSS application then uploads the trip logs to the TSS central system enabling analysis and replay of the trip.

The user interface can be a touch screen mounted at each crew work position in the locomotive cab. The user interface also generates audio audible to LOCs within the locomotive cabin while the engine is operating. Audio alerts are also generated and are audible to the LOCs. Other input devices may be required or available such as a keyboard pointing device mouse trackball based on the detailed design.

The consist information for the train details the number and type of cars comprising the train. The consist information is used to calculate the length of the train to determine when the tail end passes certain locations to allow for the LOCs to confirm the clearance of equipment beyond certain locations of track fouling points to assure safety in the calculation of braking curves and optionally when possible to indicate the length of the train in the animation.

The LOC is alerted to specific events or issues in a timely fashion. The TSS application therefore is able to generate alerts and communicate those alerts to the LOC in an appropriate fashion based on the severity and importance of the event that generated the alert.

Audio alerts generated for the LOC take into consideration the noise level and noise spectrum of the locomotive assuring that the audio alarm is clearly audible and identifiable by the LOC while the train is operating.

Optionally the system may provide audio playback capability. This is achieved by providing a new audio playback system or through interface to the existing audio playback system in the locomotive cab. In either case the system needs to meet the requirements below.

Visual alerts are also used and are integrated into the end user interface design to assure LOCs are effectively alerted consistent with the severity and importance of the event that generated the alert.

Application of the brakes in circumstances where the train is being operated outside of procedural limits is called penalty braking. In pre determined situations the TSS initiates the emergency brakes on the train and brings the train to a stop. The TSS has an interface to the locomotive s braking controls to provide the capability to trigger the brake systems.

As an option the TSS may also activate the train whistle when it arrives at designated whistle posts. The interface allows the system to activate the whistle appropriately the cadence of the whistle sound is specifically set for different points on the track.

TSS operation has been described in the form of high level flowcharts showing the process followed for system startup in operational mode in and trip close functional sequences in . Each flowchart is accompanied by a detailed functional description that references specific flowchart objects by number corresponding to the diagram.

The TSS leverages a local database to store mapping component information and pertinent GBO and TGBO information with corresponding location information. The database GBOs and TGBOs are updated frequently by the TSS Central System.

Log information is also stored locally and is retrieved by the TSS Central System on a regular basis frequency to be determined based on technical capabilities and applicable costs . Logs comprise system health information update timing information recording LOC entries interfaces network errors etc.

The TSS central system is an application that receives information from numerous sources manages this information provides information updates to the TSS as well as providing basic administration management and reporting tools. The combined system therefore consists of an application server component a database component and a web user interface component.

The TSS can show on time performance information based on information from a web service. This service can provide the arrival time and on time performance information.

A list of completed runs is available for replay indexed by Train Origin Destination and Date. Other pertinent information is also made available upon request including identification of the LOC responsible for the train. This is done through a UI for LE and operations management .

The TSS receives constant updates from the GPS installed in the locomotive to get current position and current speed information which is cross referenced with the GPS located critical information.

Any particular TSS may be viewed from any PC within the operator s network with appropriate access controls implemented to assure only authorized users have access.

The operator can optionally have the capability to replay a TSS application experience on any trip made with the TSS installed using the logs generated by the application throughout the application. This replay functionality is supported on standard Windows PCs. The replay provides the complete experience of an LOC on the train from Trip Initialization to Trip Close.

When trains are approaching or departing major stations there may be a maze of tracks and switches. Optionally the system may not provide guidance in moving through these low speed areas. The TSS Application may optionally only begin to give detailed instructions and to display detailed animation of track and infrastructure ahead once the train moves away from the major stations. The LOC is notified when guidance begins.

The TSS application is executed on one computer and one or two touchscreen displays with applicable input devices one for each of up to two crew members in the locomotive. The computer uses Internet access for certain functions though TSS Application remains fully operational should network connectivity be temporarily unavailable. Local connectivity is established between the device and train control systems and the locomotive GPS. In the event that the TSS loses network connectivity the TSS continues to provide full functionality during trips based on its local store of downloaded data.

The system provides automated warnings and reminders by means of rule base alerting strategy by extracting and combining pertinent information while minimizing the LOC s cognitive mental workload.

The TSS can monitor the interactivity of the LOC with the system to detect possible lack of awareness and ensure the LOC respond accordingly. The touch screen capability can help detect mental awareness issues such as finger tremors indicating tension or fatigue. Sampling of reaction time attentional focus and other indicators of awareness mental sharpness and fatigue can optionally be performed during off peak times to ensure the LOCs are maintaining acceptable mental awareness.

The TSS can be used for continuous improvement of LOC training by collecting trip reports logs of conformance to regulations which can later be reviewed and discussed with the LOC.

The TSS can be used in a network of trains all using TSS by means of informing adjacent train proximity to confirm their right of ways.

The TSS capabilities can be adapted to allow use of a single driver in the cabin as opposed to a two person LOC.

Communication between the train dispatchers and the operator make use of existing secure connections when available or connectivity solutions can be developed with each dispatcher. Options include establishing a VPN connection over the Internet or implementing a direct network link such as an MPLS network connection. Connectivity decisions are made in conjunction with the each individual partner.

Accuracy and precision regarding locations and distance calculations is a prime requirement for the Train Safety Systems. The GPS to be used by the TSS therefore provide specified levels of accuracy and precision and the TSS software compensates for the margin of error provided by the GPS in order to assure the safety of the passengers cargo crew and equipment as well as the safety of any other organizations and the general public.

The TSS can also calculate the length of the train for safety reasons as it influences the speed allowed at critical locations. As the length is a function of the number of cars type of cars provides length locomotive type provides length and GPS placement the system compensates for inaccuracies to assure safety. GPS placement on the locomotive is not always consistent. Other GPS based electronic devices such as end of train can also be used to increase the accuracy and reliability of the estimations. When the system is confirming that the train has cleared a fouling point a margin for error is included in the calculation to assure safety.

The TSS applies human factors to define an IT based process to reduce the mental workload cognitive and memory demands on the locomotive crew. It provides a method of extracting and combining information from permanent slow orders temporary slow orders real time signal recognition and instructions conveyed to the crew through the various GBOs foreman s and dispatcher s instructions to identify the speed limit at each point along the route. As per the TSS may further comprise 

Although the algorithms described above including those with reference to the foregoing flow charts have been described separately it should be understood that any two or more of the algorithms disclosed herein can be combined in any combination. Any of the methods algorithms implementations or procedures described herein can include machine readable instructions for execution by a a processor b a controller and or c any other suitable processing device. Any algorithm software or method disclosed herein can be embodied in software stored on a non transitory tangible medium such as for example a flash memory a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD or other memory devices but persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the entire algorithm and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than a controller and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware in a well known manner e.g. it may be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable logic device FPLD discrete logic etc. . Also some or all of the machine readable instructions represented in any flowchart depicted herein can be implemented manually as opposed to automatically by a controller processor or similar computing device or machine. Further although specific algorithms are described with reference to flowcharts depicted herein persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that many other methods of implementing the example machine readable instructions may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

It should be noted that the algorithms illustrated and discussed herein as having various modules perform particular functions and interact with one another. It should be understood that these modules are merely segregated based on their function for the sake of description and represent computer hardware and or executable software code which is stored on a computer readable medium for execution on appropriate computing hardware. The various functions of the different modules and units can be combined or segregated as hardware and or software stored on a non transitory computer readable medium as above as modules in any manner and can be used separately or in combination.

While particular implementations and applications of the present disclosure have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to the precise construction and compositions disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations can be apparent from the foregoing descriptions without departing from the spirit and scope of an invention as defined in the appended claims.

