---

title: Low collateral damage kinetic energy projectile
abstract: A low collateral damage, kinetic energy penetrator has multiple segments that are mechanically locked together by centrifugal force generated by penetrator spin. When the penetrator spin decreases below a minimum value, the segments separate and fall to the ground with non-lethal kinetic energy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329008&OS=09329008&RS=09329008
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09329008
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140728
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 863 547 filed on Aug. 8 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to kinetic energy projectiles and in particular to low collateral damage kinetic energy projectiles.

In modern warfare a greater emphasis is placed on the reduction of collateral damage to the surrounding infrastructure and to civilian lives. As battles move into urban environments so do warfighters and their bases. Also other urban interests may come under attack such as embassies and consulates. These urban interests need to be protected from incoming threats. The means of intercepting the incoming threats however should not destroy the area around these urban interests or unintentionally harm civilians.

Medium caliber 20 mm 60 mm kinetic energy penetrators are very effective in neutralizing incoming air borne threat munitions such as rockets artillery and mortars. These penetrators are typically monolithic cylindrical objects that are made from high density materials to maximize penetration performance. However the ballistic coefficients of these penetrators can pose a problem in urban environments because the penetrators may possess enough energy to harm bystanders when the penetrators return to the ground. This problem can restrict the use of otherwise effective air defense systems during urban operations.

One possible solution to this problem is the use of self destructing high explosive munitions which detonate after a preset flight time. The problem with this class of munitions is that the fuze may not function thereby creating unexploded ordnance UXO and a high probability of collateral damage. Other possible solutions to this problem are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 250 987 issued to Morley et al. on Aug. 28 2012 U.S. Pat. No. 8 640 624 issued to Hassan et al. on Feb. 4 2014 and U.S. Patent Application Publication 2012 0216699 published in the name of Fanucci et al. on Aug. 30 2012. Fanucci et al. use energetic material to decompose the projectile. Morley et al. rely on an increase in ambient temperature to deform thermally sensitive wire. Hassan et al. rely on aero drag to decompose the projectile.

A need exists for a low collateral damage kinetic energy projectile that does not use energetic material and that relies on projectile flight to maintain its structural integrity rather than to break its structural integrity.

One aspect of the invention is a kinetic energy penetrator having a central longitudinal axis. The penetrator includes a nose segment having an aft portion and a generally annular middle segment disposed aft of the nose segment. A base segment is disposed aft of the middle segment and includes a forward portion. A compression spring is disposed in the middle segment. The compression spring biases the nose segment and the base segment away from the middle segment.

A pair of torque transfer projections are formed on each of the aft portion of the nose segment and the forward portion of the base segment. The projections in each pair are spaced 180 degrees apart. Slots are formed in an inner surface of the middle segment for receiving the pairs of torque transfer projections. The pairs of torque transfer projections transfer torque from the base segment to the middle segment and the nose segment.

A pair of ball openings are formed in each of the aft portion of the nose segment and the forward portion of the base segment. The ball openings in each pair are offset 90 degrees from respective torque transfer projections. A pair of balls are disposed in each of the two pairs of ball openings. Each ball is translatable in its ball opening. Forward and aft ball detents are formed in the inner surface of the middle segment for receiving the pairs of balls.

Angular velocity of the penetrator causes the two pairs of balls to engage the forward and aft ball detents and mechanically lock the nose segment and the base segment to the middle segment. When the angular velocity decreases sufficiently the two pairs of balls disengage the forward and aft ball detents thereby enabling the compression spring to separate the nose segment and the base segment from the middle segment.

Each pair of torque transfer projections may be the opposing ends of a pin that is disposed in a through bore formed in each of the aft portion of the nose segment and the forward portion of the base segment.

Each ball may be constrained from translating completely out of its respective ball opening. Each ball opening may be staked to constrain translation of its respective ball.

The forward and the aft ball detents may be grooves that are formed in the inner surface of the middle segment.

Another aspect of the invention is a method that includes providing a penetrator and spinning up the penetrator to a first angular velocity. The method includes translating two pairs of balls into engagement with forward and aft ball detents to thereby mechanically lock together segments of the penetrator.

The method may include decelerating the angular velocity of the penetrator and then translating the two pairs of balls out of engagement with the forward and aft ball detents to thereby unlock the segments of the penetrator.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A novel self destructing heavy metal kinetic energy penetrator reduces collateral damage and UXO by fragmenting the penetrator without the use of energetic materials. The penetrator includes a plurality of coaxial segments arranged on a central longitudinal axis. The segments may or may not be symmetric about the longitudinal axis. Each segment is sized and shaped to create an individual ballistic coefficient. The individual ballistic coefficient is selected to ensure that aerodynamic drag is sufficient to reduce the segment s terminal energy below the levels designated for lethal injury to ground personnel. For example each segment will have an energy of less than about 75 joules upon impact with the ground.

Each segment loses its flight stability when separated from the rest of the penetrator. As each segment separates from the parent penetrator the segment will tumble because of flight instabilities. The flight instability ensures the separated segment will lose a maximum amount of kinetic energy and have minimal terminal effects.

Each segment separates from adjacent segments using an internal mechanical system that unlocks adjacent segments when the penetrator spin rate falls below a predetermined rotational velocity. For example balls and ball detents are one mechanism that may be used to lock adjacent segments together during penetrator flight. Centrifugal force of the spinning penetrator causes the balls to seat in the ball detents and lock the segments together. When the rotational velocity of the air borne penetrator decreases sufficiently the balls will move radially inward out of the ball detents and unlock adjacent segments. Another internal mechanism such as a compressed spring may be used to push apart and separate the unlocked segments. Once on the ground the separated segments and internal mechanisms pose no UXO hazard. Also because no energetic material or fuzes are used the logistical burden is low and the lifecycle cost is low.

The sub caliber segmented penetrator may be encased in a discarding sabot and joined to a cartridge case in a manner similar to the Mk244 projectile manufactured by General Dynamics. The discarding sabot maintains the discrete segments in an assembled state prior to launching the penetrator. In the launch tube a driving band on the sabot spins up the penetrator causing the balls to move into the ball detents and lock the segments together. The sabot is discarded after muzzle exit. If the penetrator has not struck a target by the time its spin rate falls below a minimum value the balls will dislodge from the ball detents and the compression spring will force the segments apart. The segments will then fall relatively harmlessly to the ground.

The segments may be made of for example a heavy metal such as tungsten. The mass size and or shape of segments may be altered to ensure that each segment s kinetic energy at ground impact is less than about 75 joules. For example asymmetric features may be added to the segments to decrease aerodynamic stability after the segments are separated in flight.

A compression spring is disposed in the middle segment . The compression spring contacts the aft portion of nose segment and the forward portion of base segment thereby biasing the nose segment and the base segment away from the middle segment .

A pair of torque transfer projections are formed on the forward portion of the base segment and a pair of torque transfer projections are formed on the aft portion of the nose segment . Projections are spaced 180 degrees apart and projections are spaced 180 degrees apart. Slots are formed in an inner surface of the middle segment for receiving the pairs of torque transfer projections and . The torque transfer projections and transfer torque from the base segment to the middle segment and the nose segment . Torque transfer projections may be the opposing ends of a pin that is disposed in a through bore formed in the forward portion of the base segment . Torque transfer projections may be the opposing ends of a pin . B and that is disposed in a through bore formed in the aft portion of the nose segment .

A pair of ball openings are formed in the forward portion of the base segment and another of pair of ball openings are formed in the aft portion of the nose segment . Ball openings are offset 90 degrees from torque transfer projections and ball openings are offset 90 degrees from torque transfer projections . Ball openings may be part of a through bore formed in forward portion of base segment . Ball openings may be part of a through bore formed in aft portion of nose segment .

A pair of balls are disposed in respective ball openings through bore and a pair of balls are disposed in respective ball openings through bore . Each ball is radially translatable in its respective ball opening or through bore. After insertion of each ball in its respective through bore the inner wall of the bore is staked to constrain each ball from translating completely out of its respective ball opening. That is only a portion of each ball can extend radially outward beyond the surface of forward portion of base segment or the surface of aft portion of nose segment .

Forward and aft ball detents are formed in the inner surface of the middle segment for receiving the pairs of balls. The ball detents may be in the form of grooves. The circumferential extent of the grooves may be interrupted by the slots .

A discarding sabot may be disposed around penetrator to keep segments together prior to launch. The sabot may include a driving band to spin up the penetrator .

When penetrator is launched it spins up and reaches a sufficient angular velocity whereby centrifugal force causes the two pairs of balls and to move or translate radially outward. The two pairs of balls engage the ball detents in the inner surface of the middle segment thereby mechanically locking the nose segment and base segment to the middle segment . After the penetrator exits the launch tube the sabot is discarded but the segments remain locked by the engagement of the balls with the ball detents.

If the penetrator does not strike a target its angular velocity will gradually decrease to a point where the two pairs of balls will disengage move radially inward away from the forward and aft ball detents. Then the compression spring will separate the nose segment and the base segment from the middle segment . The separated segments will become aerodynamically unstable and will fall to the ground.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

For example the penetrator may include more than one middle segment. Further the halls and torque transfer projections may be located on the middle segment and the slots for the torque transfer projections and the ball detents may be located on each of the nose and base segments.

