---

title: Driving action determination for travel route exit event
abstract: Arrangements relate to determining a driving action for an autonomous vehicle. An exit event along a current road of a travel route of the autonomous vehicle can be identified. At least one forward vehicle between the autonomous vehicle and the exit event can be detected. A driving action to take relative to the at least one forward vehicle can be determined based on one or more inputs. Such inputs can include a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and/or a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event. The autonomous vehicle can be caused to implement the determined driving action. The driving action can be, for example, remaining behind the at least one forward vehicle, passing the at least one forward vehicle or prompting an occupant of the autonomous vehicle to select a driving action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429440&OS=09429440&RS=09429440
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09429440
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141207
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles having an autonomous operational mode and more particularly to the maneuvering of such vehicles when approaching an exit event.

Some motor vehicles include driving assistance systems that can assist a driver in the operation of such vehicles. Driving assistance systems typically include sensors configured to detect information about the surrounding environment such as the presence of other vehicles. Such driving assistance systems include computing systems that are configured to process the detected information to inform a driver of options for navigating the vehicle in the surrounding environment. For instance some motor vehicles are configured to send an indication to a driver when there is an opportunity to pass another vehicle.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of determining a driving action for an autonomous vehicle. The method includes identifying an exit event along a current road of a travel route of the autonomous vehicle. The method also includes detecting at least one forward vehicle between the autonomous vehicle and the exit event. Further the method includes determining using a processor a driving action to take relative to the at least one forward vehicle. Such determining is based on at least one of a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event. In addition the method includes causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the determined driving action.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for an autonomous vehicle. The system includes a sensor system configured to detect one or more forward vehicles between an autonomous vehicle and an exit event along a current road of a travel route of the autonomous vehicle. The system also includes a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The processor is programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations include determining a driving action to take relative to the at least one forward vehicle. Such determining is based on at least one of a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event. The executable operations further include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the determined driving action.

In still another respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for determining a driving action for an autonomous vehicle approaching an exit event. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith. The program code is executable by a processor to perform a method. The method includes identifying an exit event along a current road of a travel route of the autonomous vehicle. The method also includes detecting at least one forward vehicle between the autonomous vehicle and the exit event. The method further includes determining a driving action to take relative to the at least one forward vehicle. Such determining is based on at least one of a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event. The method includes causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the determined driving action.

This detailed description relates to determining a suitable driving action for an autonomous vehicle near an exit event. More particularly such a determination can be made when one or more other vehicles are detected in front of and in the same lane as the autonomous vehicle. Examples of suitable driving actions can include passing the detected vehicle s or remaining behind the detected vehicle s . The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can assist in minimizing driver inputs to and or improving performance of the autonomous vehicle.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode using one or more computing systems to navigate and or maneuver a vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of a vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver.

The vehicle can include various elements which may be a part of an autonomous driving system . Some of the possible elements of the autonomous driving system are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the system to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The system can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the system can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements the system may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit.

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include an autonomous driving module . The autonomous driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement the various processes described herein. The autonomous driving module and or the data store can be components of the processor or the autonomous driving module and or the data store can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The autonomous driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain instructions.

The vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense something. In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other or one or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the autonomous driving module and or other element of the vehicle and or the autonomous driving system .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense information about an environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located using radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . In some arrangements the one or more sensors can be configured to sense the speed and or heading of such objects.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess measure quantify and or sense objects in the environment in which the vehicle is located using lasers. For instance the sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode.

The sensor system can include a camera. Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture an image. The camera can include a lens and an image capture element. The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capturing element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capturing element may capture color images and or grayscale images.

Alternatively or in addition to the above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The processor can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include an input system for receiving input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system for presenting information to the driver or passenger. The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels or tires. Any suitable type of wheels or tires can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels or tires of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels or tires. The wheels or tires can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the autonomous driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the autonomous driving module . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

One example of an environment in which the vehicle can operate is shown in . The vehicle can be traveling on a road . Road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. The road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances the road may be unpaved or undeveloped. The road may be a public road or a private road. The road may be designated for one way travel e.g. a one way street or the road can be designated for two way travel. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads. The road can include a shoulder of a road. As used herein current road means a road that a vehicle is traveling on at the present time.

The road can include one or more travel lanes . A travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked.

The road can include an exit event . As used herein exit event means a portion of a determined travel route in which the vehicle leaves or separates from a current road with a change in direction. Examples of exit events include intersections junctions T junctions Y junctions four ways turns off ramps onramps roundabouts drive ways alleys and or forks. In some instances the exit event may be controlled by a traffic control device e.g. a traffic light . In some instances the exit event may not have an associated traffic control device. The exit event can be at substantially 90 degrees relative to the current road. As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially 90 degrees means exactly 90 degrees and slight variations therefrom. As a further example the exit event can be angled at an acute angle with respect to the current road. Still further the exit event can be angled at an obtuse angle with respect to the current road.

The exit event may be located on a driver side of the vehicle or a passenger side of the vehicle . In the example shown in the exit event is a substantially 90 degree right hand turn. However it will be understood that arrangements are not limited to such an exit event. It should be noted that the vehicle may pass one or more things e.g. intersections junctions etc. along the travel route that could be potential exit events. However if the vehicle does not follow the exit event as part of the determined travel route e.g. the vehicle will not turn at a given intersection junction etc. then such things are not considered to be exit events for that particular travel route.

As noted above the vehicle can be configured to detect objects surrounding the vehicle in the environment . The surrounding object can be located in any direction with respect to the vehicle . The surrounding objects can include one or more other vehicles. The other vehicles may be autonomous vehicles or non autonomous vehicles or any combination of autonomous and non autonomous vehicles. For instance the surrounding objects can include one or more forward vehicles one or more rearward vehicles one or more driver side vehicles and or one or more passenger side vehicles not shown . Forward vehicle means a vehicle that is located in front of and in the same lane or substantially the same lane as the present vehicle e.g. vehicle and traveling in the same direction.

One or more of such other vehicles may be traveling in the same direction as the vehicle . Further one or more of such other vehicles may be traveling in a different direction as the vehicle e.g. in one or more transverse directions or in the opposite direction to the vehicle . In some instances one or more of the other vehicles may or may not be moving. For instance there may be one or more parked stopped and or disabled vehicles.

The surrounding objects can include non vehicular objects. For instance the non vehicular objects can include people animals signs and or other objects. The non vehicular objects can be stationary or they can be moving.

In some arrangements the surrounding objects can include all objects detected by the sensor system within the range of the sensors. In some arrangements the surrounding objects can be a subset of the objects detected by the sensor system such as those objects that are detected to be within a predetermined distance from the vehicle . For instance objects that are located beyond the predetermined distance can be ignored or otherwise filtered and thus effectively ignored.

Now that the various potential components of the vehicle and the environment in which the vehicle may operate have been described one manner of determining driving actions for the vehicle at exit events such as the exit event shown in will be presented. Referring now to an example of a method of determining driving actions at exit events is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

Various possible steps of method will now be described. At block a travel route for the vehicle can be determined. The travel route is a way that a vehicle can take to reach a predetermined destination. The travel route can be fixed that is once a route has been determined or selected the travel route does not change. Alternatively at least a portion of the travel route can be altered or adjusted in real time or at any suitable interval based on current information. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a driver or passenger or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process. For instance a travel route can be altered or adjusted if information received indicates that a road or a portion of the road on the determined travel route is closed due to an accident flooding or other reason.

The travel route can be determined in any suitable manner. In some arrangements the travel route can be input determined created and or selected by a driver or passenger e.g. a person . In some arrangements the travel route can be created determined and or selected by the autonomous driving system such as by the processor the navigation system and or the autonomous driving module . There can be one or more exit events along the determined travel route.

At block objects surrounding the vehicle can be detected. Such detection can be performed by one or more sensors of the sensor system . In some arrangements such detecting can be performed continuously while the vehicle is traveling on the travel route or for at least a portion thereof. In some arrangements such detecting can at any suitable interval while the vehicle is traveling on the travel route or for at least a portion thereof.

At decision block an exit event along the determined travel route or a current road of the determined travel route can be identified. Such identification can be performed in any suitable manner. The identification can be made at any time and or at any spatial point along the travel route or current road. For instance the identification can be made at the time the travel route is initially determined. As another example the identification can be made when it is determined that the vehicle is located on a road with an exit event or when the vehicle is within a predetermined distance from the exit event.

If no exit event is identified along the determined travel route or the current road of the determined travel route the method can end or it can return to block . However if an exit event is identified then the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether there are one or more forward vehicles between the vehicle and the exit event. Such a determination can be made using one or more of the sensors of the sensor system and or the processor . If no forward vehicles are detected then the method can end or it can return to block . If one or more forward vehicles are detected then the method can continue to decision block .

At decision block it can be determined whether passing the one or more forward vehicles is available or unavailable to the vehicle . The determination of availability or unavailability includes assessing whether there is an opportunity for the vehicle to pass the one or more forward vehicles based on the presence of one or more passing lanes e.g. one or more travel lanes that can be used to pass the one or more forward vehicles . Availability means that the vehicle can pass the one or more forward vehicles based at least on the presence of one or more passing lanes. Conversely unavailability means that the vehicle cannot pass the one or more forward vehicles based at least on the absence of a passing lane.

It should be noted that the determination of availability or unavailability can also be based on one or more other detected conditions or factors. Examples of such other detected conditions or factors include for example the presence of surrounding vehicles e.g. vehicles in the one or more passing lanes in the current travel lane of the vehicle and or in other travel lanes the speed of the surrounding vehicles the travel direction of the surrounding vehicles surrounding objects weather conditions and or road conditions. For instance if the current road has only one travel lane then it may be determined that it is not possible to pass the one or more forward vehicles before the exit event because there is no travel lane available for passing. As a result it would be determined that passing the one or more forward vehicles is unavailable. Alternatively if the current road has more than one travel lane then it may be determined that it is not possible to pass the one or more forward vehicles before the exit event if other vehicles are detected in the other travel lane. Again it may be determined that passing the one or more forward vehicles is unavailable in such circumstances. However if the current road has more than one travel lane and for example no other vehicles are detected in an adjacent travel lane to the current travel lane of the vehicle then it may be determined that passing the one or more forward vehicles is available.

If it is determined that passing the one or more forward vehicles is unavailable the vehicle can be caused to remain behind the one or more forward vehicles at block . Remain behind means that the vehicle continues to follow the one or more forward vehicles in the same travel lane. Remain behind includes stopping or following the one or more forward vehicles. If it is determined that passing the one or more forward vehicles is available the method can continue to decision block .

The distance between the one or more forward vehicles and the exit event can be determined in any suitable manner e.g. using the sensor system and or any other vehicle system device and or component . The speed of the one or more forward vehicles can also be determined. At decision block it can be determined whether the one or more forward vehicles are sufficiently or insufficiently distant from the exit event. Sufficiently distant means that based at least on the distance between the exit event and the one or more forward vehicles and or the speed of the one or more forward vehicles the vehicle can pass the one or more forward vehicles with adequate time and or distance for the vehicle to safely take the exit event. Conversely insufficiently distant means that the vehicle cannot pass the one or more forward vehicle with adequate time and or distance for the vehicle to safely take the exit event. Pass the one or more forward vehicles means the vehicle leaves its present travel lane passes the one or more forward vehicles in another travel lane and returns to the present travel lane in front of the one or more forward vehicles. While in at least some instances the determination of availability or unavailability of passing the one or more forward vehicles and the determination of sufficiency or insufficiency of distance may take into account at least some of the same factors the determinations are separate and the ultimate determination is different.

If it is determined that the one or more forward vehicles are sufficiently distant from the exit event it can be determined that the suitable driving action is passing the one or more forward vehicles. The vehicle can be caused to pass the one or more forward vehicles at block . In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to pass the one or more forward vehicles. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the determined driving action. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the determined driving action.

If it is determined that the one or more forward vehicles are not sufficiently distant from the exit event then method can continue to block . At block a driver or other passenger of the vehicle can be prompted to select a driving action. The driver or other passenger can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance the prompt can be displayed on a display in the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the driver or other passenger over one or more auditory channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to these forms of prompting.

In one or more arrangements the prompting can include a set of predefined driving actions for the driver or passenger to select from. The term set of predefined driving actions includes one or more predefined driving actions. For instance the driver or passenger can be prompted to select passing the one or more forward vehicles before the exit event or remaining behind the one or more forward vehicles before the exit event. In some arrangements the prompt may not include predefined driving actions. Instead the driver or passenger can input a desired driving action.

The driver or passenger can input a selected or desired driving action in any suitable manner. For instance the driver or passenger can input the selection using one or more components of the input system . As an example the driver or passenger can input a selection through a touch screen button switch or other in vehicle user interface element. In some arrangements the driver or passenger can input a selection through engagement with one or more vehicle components e.g. turn signal brake pedal gas pedal etc. . A user interface element is defined as a component or a group of components that enables a user to interact with a machine. In one or more arrangements the driver or passenger can input a selection by speaking the selected or desired driving action.

If a driving action selection is not received the driving action can be determined to be remaining behind the one or more forward vehicles or another system default driving action. The vehicle can be caused to remain behind the one or more forward vehicles at block . In some arrangements a predetermined amount of time can be given for the driver or passenger to select a driving action. The predetermined amount of time can be any suitable amount of time. The predetermined amount of time can vary depending on the circumstances in the environment. If a driving action selection is not received within the predetermined amount of time the driving action can be determined to be remaining behind the one or more forward vehicles or another system default driving action

If a driving action selection is received e.g. within the predetermined amount of time or otherwise the method can continue to block . At block the vehicle can be caused to implement the selected driving action. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the selected driving action. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the selected driving action. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the selected driving action. The method can end or it can return to block .

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can reduce driver or passenger input. As another example arrangements described herein can improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle. As a still further example arrangements described herein can improve vehicle safety.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language .

The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC . As used herein a determination that is based on at least one of a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event means that the determination can be made based on any of the following a a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle b a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event or c both a determined availability or unavailability of passing the at least one forward vehicle and a determined sufficiency or insufficiency of distance between the at least one forward vehicle and the exit event e.g. availability and sufficiency availability and insufficiency unavailability and sufficiency or unavailability and insufficiency .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

