---

title: Speech to message processing
abstract: Voice message processors are configured to produce text representations of voice messages. The text representations can be compacted based on one or more abbreviation libraries or rule libraries. Abbreviation processing can be applied to produce a compact text representation based on display properties of a destination device or to enhance user perception. Text representation length can be reduced based on abbreviations in a standard abbreviation list, a user specific abbreviation list, or a combination of standard and custom lists. In some examples, text length is shortened based on stored rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09060065&OS=09060065&RS=09060065
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09060065
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140525
---
The disclosure pertains to methods and apparatus for producing and delivering text representations of voice messages.

Many wireless and landline telephone system users take advantage of voice messaging or voice mail capabilities. Using voice messaging a user can leave a voice message for an unavailable message recipient so that the user need not continue to try and contact the message recipient. Such systems are convenient as repeated attempts to contact one or more message recipients can be avoided. Such systems are equally convenient for message recipients as messages can be received even when the message recipient is otherwise occupied. Received messages can be played back subsequently as the message recipient s schedule permits. As a result a message sender and a message recipient can communicate by voice messaging without being simultaneously available.

While voice messaging systems are convenient they exhibit several difficulties. A message recipient typically is generally unaware of the nature of received voice messages without listening to the messages. In some systems message duration and message origin are available but message content is generally unknown. In addition if the message recipient notes that messages have been received but defers listening to the messages important time sensitive messages may not be listened to in time for an appropriate response. Thus while deferring a review of voice messages prevents message recipient interruption such deferred review can be too late.

Voice message processors include an input configured to receive a voice message and a speech signal processor configured to produce a text representation associated with the voice message. An output is configured to deliver the text representation. In representative examples the speech signal processor is configured to produce a compact text representation that is based on an abbreviation library or a rule library that can be stored in a memory. In additional examples the speech signal processor is configured to assign a voice message identifier that is delivered to the output.

Mobile stations comprise a message input configured to receive a text representation of a voice message and an identifier associated with the text representation. A display is configured to display the text representation. In some examples the mobile stations comprise a transceiver configured to transmit a request for delivery of the voice message associated with the text representation. In other examples the mobile stations comprise a transceiver configured to transmit a request for delivery of a compact text representation of the voice message. In other representative examples the message input is configured to receive a message identifier associated with an availability of a voice message and the display is configured to display a display icon associated with the availability of the voice message. In additional examples a transceiver is configured to deliver a subscriber profile associated with delivery of a text representation of a voice message. In other examples a memory is configured to store the text representation. In other examples the mobile station includes an input key configured to transmit a request for delivery of the voice message associated with the text representation.

Mobile stations comprise a message input configured to receive a compact text representation and a voice message identifier. A display is configured to display the compact text representation and an indicator associated with an availability of an associated voice message. In other representative examples the mobile stations comprise a transmitter configured to transmit a request for delivery of a fill text representation associated with the compact text representation. In other examples the mobile stations comprise a transmitter configured to transmit a request for delivery of a voice message associated with the voice message identifier.

Mobile stations comprise a receiver configured to receive a text representation of a voice message and a transmitter configured to transmit a request for the voice message associated with the text representation. In additional examples the mobile stations comprise a display configured to exhibit a voice message availability indicator associated with the text representation. In other examples the mobile stations comprise a processor configured to produce a compact representation of the voice message based on the received text representation. In additional examples the mobile stations comprise a memory configured to store at least one abbreviation parameter wherein the processor is configured to compact the text representation based on the at least one abbreviation parameter. In representative examples the abbreviation parameter is associated with a user identity or an equipment identity. In additional examples the processor is configured to automatically produce a compact text representation. In other examples the processor is configured to produce the compact text representation based on one or more text abbreviations stored in an abbreviation library or on one or more abbreviation rules stored in a rule library.

Network elements comprise a receiver configured to receive a voice message and a processor configured to produce an associated text representation. In some examples the processor is configured to produce the text representation based on one or more abbreviation parameters. In other examples the processor is configured to receive at least one abbreviation parameter from a mobile station or a network element. In additional examples the processor is configured to receive at least one abbreviation parameter associated with a message recipient identity or an equipment identity.

Voice message processors comprise means for receiving a voice message and means for processing the voice message to produce an associated text representation. In additional examples the processors include means for selecting an abbreviation extent for the compact text representation.

Messaging methods comprise preparing a voice message producing a text representation of the voice message and transmitting the text representation to a message recipient. In illustrative examples the methods comprise producing a compact text representation of the voice message based on an abbreviation library. In additional examples a message sender and the message recipient share the abbreviation library.

Voice message processing methods comprise receiving a voice message producing a text representation of the voice message and delivering the text representation to a message recipient. In representative examples a compact text representation of the voice message is produced based on an abbreviation library and or a rule library. In other examples the text representation is abbreviated based on an available display area. In additional examples the voice message and the text representation are stored. According to other examples a computer readable medium is configured to comprise computer executable instructions for performing such voice message processing methods.

In a computer system having a graphical user interface including a display and a user interface selection device methods are provided that comprise retrieving a menu entry associated with a voice message processor function associated with production of a text representation of a voice message. The menu entry is displayed and a menu selection signal is received that is indicative of the user interface selection device pointing at the menu entry on the display. A voice message processor function associated with the menu entry is performed. In some examples the voice message processor function is toggling between display of a full text representation and display of associated compact text representation. In other examples a computer readable medium is provided having computer executable instructions for performing such steps.

With reference to a mobile station includes a keypad and a microphone configured to receive input from a mobile station user and a display configured to show user inputs messages or other information. Other or additional input devices can also be included with the mobile station . The keypad the microphone or both are configured to communicate user inputs to a message processor that is in communication with a transceiver . The mobile station also includes an audio output in communication with the transceiver . The transceiver produces a modulated radio frequency signal that is delivered to an antenna for transmission via an air interface to a mobile base station . The mobile base station is in communication with a wireless communication network and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . A wireless communication network is in communication with the PSTN and includes a mobile base station . A mobile station is in communication with the wireless network and includes a display a keypad an audio output transducer a microphone a message processor and a transceiver . As shown in a user of the mobile station contacts the mobile station via the wireless networks and the PSTN . In other examples a mobile station user contacts a landline telephone a personal computer or other computer a personal digital assistant a computer network or other fixed or mobile destinations associated with an intended recipient.

The wireless network of also includes a voice message processor that is in communication with the wireless network . The voice message processor is configured to for example store a voice message in a memory . The voice message processor can also process a voice message either prior to or after storage to produce an associated text representation that can be stored in a memory . In addition the voice processor can be configured to produce a compact text representation for storage in a memory . A single memory can be used to store voice messages and associated text representations. In some examples voice messages and text representations are not stored.

Voice message processors can also be provided at other communication system locations. The PSTN can be configured to be in communication with a voice message processor that includes a memory configured to store voice messages and associated text representations and compact text representations produced by the voice message processor . The wireless network can be configured to be in communication with a voice message processor that is configured to store one or more voice messages in a memory and associated text representations or compact text representations produced by the voice message processor . In other examples a voice message processor is configured to produce and or store a text representation or a compact text representation associated with a voice message produced or stored in a remote network.

With reference to a voice processor includes a controller a memory configured to store a standard abbreviation library and user customized abbreviation libraries . The memory is also configured to store a rule library that includes one or more abbreviation rules. The memory can also be configured to store computer executable instructions for an abbreviation processor . In some examples the voice processor is provided at a mobile base station or other network location in a wireless or wired network but such a processor can also be provided at a subscriber location in for example a portable digital assistant a personal computer a server a mobile station a fixed station or other device. The processor can be a dedicated processor or can be a processor associated with additional applications. For example a central processing unit of a personal computer or server can be configured to provide such processing as well as processing for other applications. A voice message or other speech transmission from a mobile station or otherwise provided is received by the message processor at an input and is converted to text by a speech processor . The speech processor typically produces a text representation of the received speech signal and stores the text representation in the memory or transmits the text representation for storage elsewhere. The text representation can be abbreviated based on one or more of the abbreviation libraries and the rule library and stored as a compact representation in the memory . The text representation can be compared with text stored in one or more of the abbreviation libraries or processed using classification methods based on fuzzy logic or neural networks or other methods using rules stored in the rule library . Abbreviation libraries and or rule libraries can be configured based on message classes or profiles. For example specific libraries can be associated with personal messages business messages family messages technical messages recreational messages messages directed to international destinations messages intended for non English speakers or other message categories. In some examples more than one library can be selected. Such libraries can be configured to abbreviate based on for example words or phrases that are easily recognized within a selected classification. In addition libraries can be configured for one or more languages so that language specific libraries are available. Messages in one or more languages can be appropriately shortened based on such libraries.

For example abbreviation processing can be configured so that certain words are omitted. Vowels can be similarly identified for omission based on a rule stored in the rule library . As used herein shortening of a text string is referred to as abbreviation. Thus abbreviation includes shortening a text string by for example removal of vowels or other characters. The compact text representation and or the full text representation can be stored and then delivered to an output . In addition an identifier can be provided that indicates whether or not a source voice message remains available and or indicates an extent of text compaction or other text processing.

The controller can be arranged to provide user or hardware configurable abbreviation by for example selection of which abbreviation libraries or rule libraries are to be used or to specify a target abbreviation extent. For example messages that only slightly exceed typical display capabilities of display capabilities of a destination device or permitted message lengths can be only slightly abbreviated. Alternatively messages may be extensively abbreviated between for example users who are accustomed to reading abbreviated messages. The extent of message abbreviation can be user selected or can be determined by the message processor based on message properties such as message length. Abbreviation extent can be conveniently selected based on a user selectable abbreviation index.

Speech processing can be applied before or after transmission of voice messages to a recipient. A message recipient can recover speech by expanding the text representation or the compact representation with a speech processor. Alternatively the voice message can be stored in voice mail and recovered after review of the associated text representation or compact representation.

The message processor can be configured so that messages are processed based on for example properties of the displays the identity of the message sender or other message characteristics such as message length. For example the message processor can receive the voice message and produce a text representation without compaction if the display has space available for the full text representation. If so the message can be delivered in its original text form to the display . If adequate display space is unavailable the message processor can abbreviate the message based on the display space available. Thus if the display has considerable space available only slight abbreviation can be applied by removing only a few characters or abbreviating words having easily recognized abbreviations based on for example a user abbreviation configuration. In other examples message abbreviation can be based on selected abbreviation or rule libraries that can be configured based on the identity of the message sender. For example users can agree on abbreviation configurations to reduce ambiguities in abbreviated messages.

Message processing methods and systems as described above can also be configured to process text messages to produce associated voice messages. For example email messages can be processed to produce speech signals. Compact email messages and other compact text messages can be expanded prior to speech conversion or such compact messages can be expanded. So called instant messaging applications can also include such text and speech processing so that instant messages can be received as voice messages. Speech processing can be associated with compact or expanded texts that are processed using for example abbreviation libraries configured based on instant message recipients or recipient groups such as buddy lists. For example a particular buddy list can be associated with appropriate abbreviation libraries and rules.

Display of an illustrative text representation and a corresponding compact text is illustrated in . With reference to a mobile station includes a keypad a microphone function keys and a display . The mobile station also includes an antenna transceiver an audio transducer a message processor and other features similar to those illustrated in but such features are not shown in . The display is configured to include a message area and an area that is configured to show information regarding current calls a call log or other information and provide access to a mobile station menu. As shown in a text representation JB WILL BE AT RESTAURANT ON PINE STREET NEAR FREEWAY EXIT of a voice message is displayed in the message area . Unfortunately this text representation uses a substantial portion of the message area so that display of additional text representations or other text messages or device controls is limited. As shown in a display icon is configured to indicate that the display text message is a text representation of a voice message and that the voice message is available. A message identifier is displayed so that a message recipient can select a corresponding voice mail message for retrieval or for text expansion or compaction. illustrates the mobile station configured to display a compact text representation of the message of as well as text representations or compact text representations of additional messages that can be associated with voice messages voice mail messages short message service SMS messages email messages or other text of voice messages. As shown in the messages are text representations of associated voice messages. Message icons indicate that associated voice messages are available while a message icon indicates that an associated full text representation is available. Message identifiers are also provide to aid in retrieval of associated voice or text messages.

In additional examples text representations or other messages are displayed with associated identifiers so that the recipient can obtain compact text representations corresponding voice mail messages or other information pertaining to message content message source delivery time size or other message properties. For example as shown in messages and respective message identifiers are shown on the display . The message is associated with a display icon that indicates that the message is an email message. The message is associated with a display icon that indicates that the message is a text representation of a voice message.

The mobile station can be configured to communicate to other mobile stations or network elements that text representations of voice messages are requested. Incoming voice mail messages are then stored and corresponding text representations either full text representations or compact representations can be automatically forwarded to the mobile station. Alternatively the mobile station can indicate to for example to a network element such a mobile switching center a base station controller a home location register or other network element or network node that voice messages are preferred and text messages can be processed to speech for delivery.

Compact text representations can be generated with or without user intervention. For example the user can inspect a portion of a full text representation and then indicate that a compact representation is requested using one or more of the function keys . The compact text can be generated at for example the mobile station or at a network node or other location. Alternatively because for example the text representation exceeds a mobile station display capacity or a network service limit a compact representation can be produced and delivered without user intervention. For example messages using a so called short message service SMS can include only characters so that text representations longer than characters can be automatically compacted for SMS delivery. The recipient can then select display of the full text representation of delivery of the voice mail message using one or more of the function keys . The full text representation can then be view using a scrolling operation.

Voice message processing of messages produced at and delivered to other devices can be similarly configured. With reference to a personal computer or other computer system is configured to receive and process voice messages delivered from a voice input device as a microphone. The personal computer typically includes a microprocessor random access memory read only memory one or more hard disk drives a floppy disk drive and other data storage devices and input output devices. Voice messages are processed using speech recognition hardware and or software associated with the personal computer . As shown in the personal computer includes a keyboard and a display monitor such as a cathode ray tube display a liquid crystal display or other display.

Voice messages or other voice inputs to the personal computer can be delivered to a communication network such as for example a wireless network or a public switched telephone network or other communication network. Such voice messages can also be delivered to a server or other network element that is configured to for example store voice messages or other voice inputs and process such voice messages and inputs to produce corresponding text representations. In addition the network element can be configured to produce a voice representation based on a text message or text representation stored at the network element or delivered to the network element by the communication network or the personal computer .

The communication network can be configured to communicate with a network element that can store voice messages process voice messages and store text representations or compact text representations associated with text messages. The processor can deliver or receive such voice messages or text messages from one or more network elements such as the personal computer a personal computer or a mobile station that is in communication with a wireless network using an air interface . The network elements can be configured to store and or process voice messages and text representations. In some examples the network elements are configured to process voice messages or text representations that are stored at remote locations such as other network elements. For example the network element can be configured to receive a voice message stored at the network element and process the voice message. The associated text representation can be stored at the network element or at another location. A compact text representation can be obtained by processing the voice message or the associated text representation.

In some examples text strings are processed for delivery as voice messages. For example the personal computer can be configured to receive text strings produced using the keyboard and or a mouse or other pointing device or input device. The text strings can be processed with word processor application software presentation application software graphics software or other applications. Alternatively text strings can be stored in a computer readable medium in various formats. A text processor can be configured to deliver text strings as voice messages as well as a voice message identifier that indicates that the voice message is associated with a text string. The text string can be compacted before or after such processing and the associated voice message can be reprocessed at other network locations to produce corresponding text representations or compact text representations. Full text representations and compact text representations can be stored based on a user or network selection.

With reference to a mobile station such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant or a laptop computer includes a keypad function keys and a display . The display includes a message area configured to display voice message or text message notifications and associated text messages and text representations. In addition message area is configured to display message identifiers or other parameters associated with various messages. As shown in a text availability indicator is displayed that is associated with a voice message that is delivered to the mobile station . The presence of the indicator communicates to the message recipient that delivery of the associated text message can be requested. In addition the indicator can be used to identify voice messages that are derived from text messages.

Control of a voice message processing can be provided based on a menu or other user interface configured for selection of processor parameters. For example a so called drop down menu can be provided that is associated with one or more voice processor functions such as abbreviation extent library selection abbreviation level selection or toggling between full text representation and compact text representation. The menu can be displayed in response to a menu entry selection signal provided by a user selection device such as a mouse keyboard or the device. An execution signal associated with one or more voice processor functions can be provided based on a menu entry selected by a user.

A representative voice message processing method is illustrated in . In a step a voice message is received for processing. In a step the voice message is stored and a voice message identifier VM ID is assigned. In a step the voice message is processed based on one or more predetermined processing parameters.

The processing parameters can be associated with for example display hardware properties a degree of processing intended availability of standard custom or shared abbreviation or rule libraries and whether both full text and compact text representations as well as the voice message are to be stored. In a step the text representation is stored along with an identifier TXT ID that can indicate for example availability of the source voice message parameters used for processing such as whether the text representation is a compact representation. In a step a length of the text representation is compared with a message length associated with a Short Message Service SMS protocol. If the text representation length does not exceed the SMS message length the text representation and the associated voice message identifier VM ID are delivered to a recipient. If the text representation length exceeds the SMS length the text representation can be further processed in a step and delivered in a step . Typically a compact representation is produced in the step using a library that includes for example a subscriber profile destination identifiers such as mobile identification numbers MIN international mobile equipment identifiers IMEI electronic serial numbers ESN or international mobile subscriber identifiers IMSI other parameters. Computer readable media can be configured to include computer executable instructions for such processing methods or other applications that include such processing.

With reference to a method includes generating a voice message in a step and verifying recipient voice availability in a step . If a message recipient is available for delivery of voice messages the voice message is delivered in a step . If the recipient is unavailable for voice delivery the voice message is stored and a voice message identifier VM ID assigned in a step and the voice message is processed in step to produce an associated text representation. In a step the text representation and a text representation identifier TXT ID are stored. In a step a text representation length is compared with for example a short message service message length. If the text representation is no longer than the SMS length the text representation is delivered in step . If the message length is greater than an SMS length the text representation is compacted in a step . The compacted message and an associated identifier CTXT ID are stored in a step and the compact message is delivered in a step . Recipient availability can be established using recipient information stored at a mobile station or at one or more network elements or network nodes.

Voice message processing and production of text representations can be associated with a graphical user interface such that provided with a MICROSOFT WINDOWS operating system or other operating system. Generally such graphical user interfaces display an object on a display screen and a voice processing function is associated with the displayed object. For example the displayed object can be associated with display of abbreviated text or full text selection of abbreviation level or selection or customization of one or more rule or abbreviation libraries. A user input based on the displayed object activates execution of such functions. In some examples a menu of functions is displayed.

With reference to a method of requesting a voice message or an associated text representation includes receiving a message notification in a step and selecting a delivery format in a step . In a step voice message delivery is requested and a voice message is retrieved or delivered. Alternatively in a step a text representation is requested and a voice message identifier VM ID is assigned. In a step a text representation is retrieved and displayed. In another alternative a compact text representation can be requested in step and displayed in a step . After receipt of a selected message format an alternative format can be selected in a step . If no additional formats are requested message delivery ends in a step .

Text representations including compact representations can be obtained by processing a voice message using an abbreviation personality library and or an abbreviation parameter table that can be based on a sender identification message length abbreviation level or other parameters. User personalities can be based on sender preferences recipient preferences hardware and or software configuration in a mobile station or other device. For example a user personality can be configured so that messages to selected recipients are abbreviated based on a private library. The user personality for such a personal library can provide identification of recipients to be associated with such a private user personality. The personal library can also include abbreviations for terms that common to group members or abbreviation can be avoided for recipients for whom abbreviated messages pose difficulties. Messages to other recipients can be abbreviated based on generic abbreviation conditions or only slightly abbreviated so that they are easily understood.

In other examples voice message processing can be based on properties of network elements network capacity network congestion or based on a subscriber service profile that indicates services available to a message originator or recipient. An abbreviation indicator can be associated with a compact text representation and transmitted to a recipient or another network element. If the abbreviation indicator is available to the recipient mobile station or network element text processing associated with the compact text representation can be reversed or partially reversed either automatically based on an abbreviation personality associated with a network element a recipient communication equipment or network capacity or capabilities. Alternatively a recipient can request a less abbreviated version in order to confirm or clarify the received processed text. In addition if messages are abbreviated to avoid network congestion the recipient can request that unprocessed message text be delivered when network congestion is relieved. The abbreviation indicator can be associated with abbreviation extent or identify specific libraries used for text shortening.

It will be appreciated that the examples described above can be modified in arrangement and detail. For example voice message processors can be associated with voice message origination reception or at locations between origination and reception. For example a wireless network can include a voice message processor associated with a network messaging center. Based on network settings or configuration parameters supplied by a network subscriber voice messages can processed or abbreviated for transmission to a recipient. Voice messages intended for a subscriber can be associated with compact text representations that are abbreviated based on configuration parameters stored at a user mobile station such as a cellular phone a personal digital assistant a palm top computer or other mobile device that communicates over an air interface. Alternatively voice message processor settings can be stored at a network message center or other network location. Voice message processors can be provided as computer executable instructions for use with liquid crystal or other computer based projection systems laptop computers handheld computers or other devices. In addition voice message processors can be configured to process text messages and produce associated voice messages.

In other examples message sources and message receivers can be associated with wireless communication devices such as mobile stations wireless personal digital assistants personal computers and laptop computers that communicate via a wireless network other computers that communicate via a wired network or other devices. For example a message source can be a personal computer that is configured to transmit a message that is intended for a recipient via an air interface. Alternatively a mobile station can be configured to produce a voice message that is directed to a personal computer. Text processing can be provided at the personal computer a network element of a wired or wireless portion of a network a server at a mobile station or other location. In some examples text processing can be provided at several locations. Abbreviation parameters can be stored locally or in a wired or wireless network or entered manually. Processing identifiers can be communicated as one or more identification bits or identification words that are associated with processing extent and or processing libraries processing classes or processing rules that are to be applied or that have been applied. In view of these representative examples I claim all that is encompassed by the appended claims.

