---

title: Methods and mobile devices to implement traveler interactions and activity to channelize customized data
abstract: Various embodiments relate generally to electrical and electronic hardware, computer software, wired and wireless network communications, and wearable computing devices for identifying activities and/or destinations of relative importance. More specifically, a system, a device and a method are provided to determine interactions at a mobile computing device predict activities based on one or more types of interactions. Examples of activities include preferential activities available at a geographic region association with lodging In one or more embodiments, a method can include receiving data representing an interaction with a user interface, generating data summarizing the interaction to include an interaction type, and determining data representing a prioritized value indicative of a degree of the interaction. The method also may include predicting participation in an activity as a function of the prioritized value, and generating customized advisory data based on prioritized values of one or more interaction types.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609472&OS=09609472&RS=09609472
owner: HomeAway.com, Inc.
number: 09609472
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141208
---
U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 562 629 filed on Dec. 5 2014 entitled Adaptive Advisory Engine and Methods to Predict Preferential Activities Available at a Region Associated with Lodging is herein incorporated by reference.

Various embodiments relate generally to electrical and electronic hardware computer software wired and wireless network communications and wearable computing devices for identifying activities and or destinations of relative importance. More specifically a system a device and a method are provided to determine interactions at a mobile computing device predict activities based on one or more types of interactions. Examples of activities include preferential activities available at a geographic region association with lodging.

A number of conventional techniques have been developed to support implementations of various vacation rental marketplaces in which disparate owners of second or vacation homes can rent personal property to temporary travelers such as vacationers and is travelers. In a vacation rental marketplace a family or a group of people e.g. group of friends may rent anything from cabins condominiums summer homes to villas barns farm houses and castles. These types of rental properties are desirable as typical hotel or motel buildings are not well suited to accommodate families or groups of people and are usually less private and less comforting to some guests.

With the advent of networked computing devices facilitating the renting of properties electronically has enabled travelers to more readily enjoy the experiences of renting others homes. However conventional techniques and known technological solutions have been sub optimal in guiding or navigating travelers to desired activities. Further conventional computing devices in traditional vacation rental marketplaces are not well suited to provide sufficient information to travelers regarding activities in a local in which a rental property is located. For example data systems for various proprietor wars and or providers of goods and services in a geographic location are independently operated and generally lack interconnections to enable travelers access to a sufficient information to fully determine activities in which a traveler may participate. Another drawback to conventional rental marketplaces is that computer implementations of concierge like services for guests may be somewhat limited or negligible due to the lack of computing and or administrative resources. As such a travel experience for a traveler generally is suboptimal as conventional systems usually do not provide for real time modification of information provided about activities of interest to a user.

While conventional approaches are functional the usual structures and or functionalities for renting properties are not well suitable to the increasing technological demands required to optimally guide and or service the predilections of travelers effectively including during a traveler s stay. Thus what is needed is a solution for channelizing a participant to desired activities in association with a computerized rental system effectively without the limitations of conventional techniques.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus a user interface or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

Examples of interaction types that interaction based prediction manager determines includes whether an interaction includes one or more of a search the search engine e.g. using a browser application a transmission of an email with or without the reply thereto e.g. using an email application a transmission of a telephonic text message with or without the reply thereto e.g. using text message application such as for SMS text messages a transmission of voice data such as during a telephone call to a callee telephone number associated with a destination at which a preferential activity may be performed location data received during one or more durations of time during which mobile computing device e.g. and presumably user coincide with the location coordinates associated with a location at which an activity may be performed and a transmission of an electronic message or other electronic interactions to provide data representing a review of an experienced by user of an activity as well as other interactions and interaction types.

Further interaction based prediction manager may associate different values to the above described interaction types respectively. In some cases interaction prediction manager describes a lower prioritized value for performing a search as described above to a highest prioritized value of submitting a review as described above. Further the order of the above described interaction types may be associated with increasing prioritize values ranging from a lowest prioritized value for performing a search to a highest prioritized value of submitting a review. In some cases the prioritized values associated with an interaction type may be indicative of the level of interest by user or a predicted probability that a user is interested . Therefore interaction based prediction manager can use detected interaction types and the corresponding prioritize values to predict an activity or event including a location that is of interest to a user during a stay at a rented home or other temporary lodging secured via travel customization system .

In some examples interaction based prediction manager may be configured to use data from or otherwise cooperate with a travel customization system . An example of a travel customization system includes a platform configured to manage rental of properties such as provided by HomeAway Inc. of Austin Tex. In some examples travel customization system or portions thereof may be implemented in the examples described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 562 629 filed on Dec. 5 2014 entitled Adaptive Advisory Engine and Methods to Predict Preferential Activities Available at a Region Associated with Lodging is herein incorporated by reference. Travel customization system may be configured to among other things to predict preferential activities in which a user may wish to engage. As such travel customization system can convey to a user real time data or near real time data that is customized to the traveler based on for example one or more attributes of the traveler. In some examples the functions of travel customization system may be satisfied by interaction based prediction manager . That is interaction based prediction manager may perform equivalent or substantially equivalent functions of travel customization system during periods of time for example in which a network connection through network to travel customization system is not available.

Further travel customization system may be further configured to navigate the user to or cause the user to participate or engage in one or more activities or destinations at geographical region which may include lodging at which the user is staying temporarily whether for business or vacation. As shown travel customization system includes a traveler profile generator and an adaptive advisory engine either or both of which can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In this example travel customization system may be implemented as a computing device which may include processors logic and other hardware and a data repository which may include executable instructions in firmware software or the like. Travel customization system may also be configured to provide a secure private network of computing devices that is accessible by its travelers authorized computing devices as well as other privileged computing devices that may host or otherwise facilitate activities of interest.

Traveler profile generator may be configured to generate or otherwise provide traveler profile data associated with a user the traveler profile data including various data types specifying associated traveler attributes. Travel customization system may use traveler attributes which may be described by a traveler profile data to predict a preferred activity in which a user may wish to engage at geographic location . Traveler profile data generated by traveler profile generator can include for example personal data describing a traveler and trip data as travel attributes. Examples of personal data may include demographic information such as name address marital status age gender presence of children a dwelling type e.g. a type and size of a residential house a range of income and the like. Examples of trip data includes data indicating types of trips taken e.g. business trip vacation etc. and pointer or link data associating a trip to other travel attributes for specific destination e.g. associating a vacation with a spouse children types of activities meal types types of lodging etc. which may be used to predict a preferential activity .

Further traveler attributes may describe companion types of individuals that may accompany a traveler such as family members friends colleagues and other data types that describe other companions such as clients government officials tour guides etc. as travel attributes. Examples of family data as travel attribute data include data representing one or more members of the family each member of the family represented by data indicating a familial relationship and other travel related attributes e.g. whether a child or spouse accompanied a traveler on a trip and if so whether the family member also accompanied the traveler to specific activities . Friend data and colleague data as travel attribute data may include similar data. As an example friend data may include a subset of friends all of whom are female tend to accompany each other once a year to Las Vegas to a winery or to a spa. As such friend data for the group of friends may be associated with destinations that may predict a next trip as a girls or guys getaway weekend trip and related activities. Similarly colleague data may include different subsets of colleagues each subset being associated with visiting or traveling to a different client. As such such travel related attributes may be used to remind a traveler of certain activities preferred by a certain client based on the subset of colleagues who are traveling with the traveler.

Further traveler profile generator may also generate traveler profile data that includes lodging data meal data and activity data any or all of which may constitute at least a portion of traveler attribute data. Examples of lodging data include data representing characteristics of various lodging accommodations associated with a traveler such as a type of lodging e.g. a house condo a cabin etc. a number of bedrooms a presence of the kitchenette whether in walking distance of local attractions whether pets are permitted etc. Examples of meal data include types of restaurants e.g. family friendly fine dining etc. types of cuisine hours of operation relative distance or location to a lodging etc. Examples of activity data include data representing activities such as surfing snorkeling golfing boat or Jet Ski rental fishing working out fitness training running paths horseback riding cycling etc. as well as data representing participation in events such as weddings carnivals regattas fishing tournaments poker championships holiday festivities etc. According to some examples travel attribute data may also include similar data for other travelers as well as data representing an aggregation of travelers e.g. stored in an anonymized manner .

Adaptive advisory engine can among other things may influence the direction of movement of a traveler within geographical region to a destination at which the traveler may participate in a preferred activity. In some embodiments the functionality of adaptive advisory engine may be implemented as a portion of interaction based prediction manager . Further adaptive advisory engine may generate customized advisory data for transmission via network to mobile computing device . In some cases a representation of customized advisory data may be displayed on a user interface of mobile computing device or otherwise may be configured to influence the computations of an electronic map or route generator based on at least predicted activities derived from travel attributes e.g. as implemented in a mapping application executed on mobile computing device .

To illustrate an example of adaptive advisory engine consider that traveler attribute data including past and or present acquired data is accessed during a visit to geographic location . As shown a traveler e.g. the user is staying at lodging which is disposed in first region of geographic region . In one example traveler may shares a cab from an airport to lodging during which the identities of colleagues are identified and thus adaptive advisory engine may predict that traveler is on a business trip and if so adaptive advisory engine may further predict that golf may be a preferred activity in which to participate during the stay for user traveler e.g. should the weather permit . As such customized advisory data can be transmitted to mobile computing device to recommend or otherwise influence traveler to travel to a golf course as traveler to participate in a round of golf.

To illustrate operation of interaction based prediction manager consider that data representing one or more interactions with user interface of mobile computing device is received by interaction based prediction manager . Consider a first example in which a user interacts with an interface of mobile computing device e.g. which may be the same as mobile computing device at a different point in time . As shown traveler may interact with user interface to perform a search for a summer activity with which traveler may enjoy with their family. Data sources such as external data sources may provide electronic messages and or information e.g. from a search engine application executed on a remote server via mobile computing device about a beach located in region R . Such information may include directions a telephone number for a state park beach and email address to reserve a spot on the beach and other such information. Interaction based prediction manager then may analyze or otherwise monitor interactions to determine whether there are any further interactions related to an activity related to beach . If not user may be presumed to not be that interested in visiting a beach as user that no more than perform a search and stopped without further interactions.

In another example consider a user interacts with an interface of a mobile computing device e.g. mobile computing device at various other points in time . As shown traveler initiates a search for food and may receive information and or an electronic message describing restaurant in region R . In some cases a prioritized value associated with the search for food in this example may be similar to a prioritized value associated with the above described search for a summer activity. But next consider that traveler walks a distance from region as traveler to view a menu in front of the door of restaurant . As traveler carries mobile computing device as a computer device location data may be received by interaction based prediction manager that the location of the user coincided with the location of restaurant albeit for less time than participating in an activity i.e. less time than usual to consume a meal . Regardless a prioritized value for an interaction e.g. a passive interaction of walking to restaurant may be associated with higher prioritized value than just searching for food or a restaurant. Further in view of the two above described examples interaction based prediction manager and or adaptive advisory engine may be configured to modify for example search results in favor of food over summer activities based on a higher calculated level of interest for finding a restaurant over going to a beach based on interactions.

In yet another example consider user interacts with an interface of a mobile computing device to search for activities relating to golf As such interaction based prediction manager may assign a prioritized value similar to the previous described interactions relating to searches. But next consider traveler causes an email via interface to be sent to an entity associated with a destination e.g. Bluebonnet Hill Golf Course . In some examples performing an email inquiry may have a higher prioritized value as an interaction then performing a search for the same. Next consider that traveler uses interface to make a phone call to an entity associated with golf course . Further still interaction based prediction manager may assign the interaction of making a phone call has a higher prioritized value then sending an email. Further to this example consider that traveler visits the golf course in region R and plays a round of golf e.g. location coordinates remain relatively coterminous with a boundary of golf course during a period of time that typically takes to play or holes of golf . As such interaction based prediction manager may assign higher prioritized value for interaction e.g. playing golf or otherwise engaging in activity that the previously described interactions. Next user may generate a review using interface of mobile computing device . In this case the user has participated in an activity and is so engaged with either the positive and or negative aspects of the activity they take the time to write a review. In some cases submitting a review via electronic communications link may be associated with a prioritized value that is higher than the precisely described interactions.

In some examples an interface controller can receive data indicating user inputs at a user interface whereby the user inputs may be associated with one or more commands to initiate one or more functionalities of interaction based prediction manager . Further interaction based prediction manager may be coupled via one or more interfaces to various applications and or data sources. In this example interaction based prediction manager is coupled to a location data interface that is configured to receive location coordinates such as GPS coordinates or the like from a location application such as an GPS application disposed on or in mobile communications device and or a travel application which may include interaction based prediction manager . Also interaction based prediction manager may be coupled to a voice interface that interfaces with a phone application e.g. a telephone application configured to facilitate telephone calls. Interaction based prediction manager may be coupled to a text message interface configured to facilitate text messaging e.g. SMS text messages with a text message application. Interaction based prediction manager may be coupled to an email interface configured to facilitate email messaging via an email application. Also interaction based prediction manager may be coupled to a browser interface configured to access a browser application. Browser interface may be configured to facilitate searching via a search engine and submission of reviews in remote server among other things. Other interfaces to may be implemented to access other applications. Note that the above described interfaces and may be implemented as application programming interfaces or APIs according to some embodiments

Data parser may be configured to parse for example through strings of text to identify and or tag relevant words terms or other symbols relevant to lodging for a user or associated geographic region. For example information about local activities recommendations may be available to a user via network connection to interaction based prediction manager . A local activity may include playing golf. When a user transmits an electronic message describing an activity of playing golf including location the name of a golf course the time of day and the like data parser may capture a copy of the out bound electronic message for parsing and detecting golf related words or symbols. Further data parser may be configured to parse in bound electronic messages or information as well. Data parser may also be configured to receive electronic information responsive to a user interaction such as data from a search query and to extract data representing the electronic information. Then data parser may be configured to parse data representing the electronic information to identify activity relevant terms to identify the activity based on the activity relevant terms.

Interaction summarization generator is configured to receive parsed data from data parser as well as data from other sources. Interaction summarization generator is configured to generate data that summarizes an interaction whereby the summary data describes an interaction type e.g. the browser search an email a text message a telephone call a visit to a destination participation in an activity at the destination submission out a review of the activity and the like . Thus interaction summarization generator may generate data representing an interaction type which in turn includes data specifying one or more of a search the search engine e.g. using a browser application a transmission of an email with or without the reply thereto e.g. using an email application a transmission of a telephonic text message with or without the reply thereto e.g. using text message application such as for SMS text messages a transmission of voice data such as during a telephone call to a callee telephone number associated with a destination at which a preferential activity may be performed location data received during one or more durations of time during which mobile computing device e.g. and presumably a corresponding user coincide with the location coordinates associated with a location at which an activity may be performed and a transmission of an electronic message or other electronic interactions to provide data representing a review of an experienced by a user of an activity as well as other interactions and interaction types.

Prioritizer may be configured to determining data representing a prioritized value which may be indicative of a degree of the interaction based on the interaction type of the interaction. According to various examples a prioritized value may be assigned by prioritizer based on a particular interaction type whereby for example searching of a term using a search engine without more indicates a relatively low level of interest by a user. By contrast submission of a review indicates a relatively high level of interest by a user in a particular activity. According to some embodiments a magnitude of a prioritized value may adapted to particular user over time. For example merely searching for a term for an activity may indicate a high level of interest for rare individual. As such prioritizer may be configured to adapt its prioritized values responsive to the types of interactions performed by a user that correlate to an interest of the user.

According to some embodiments a prioritizer may be configured to determine a first subset of interaction types and a second subset of interaction types whereby the first subset of interaction types are prioritized greater than the second subset of interaction types. In some cases searching an activity using a search engine sending an email query and sending a text message all of which may be deemed as interactions of low to moderate levels of interest for an user. For instance prioritizer may prioritize a second subset of interaction types that include transmitting an electronic message including email and text messages and or performing a search of key words associated with the activity via a search engine application as relatively lower values. Further in other cases prioritizer may prioritize a first subset of interaction types e.g. submitting a review of the participation of the activity visiting a location at which the activity occurs and generating a telephone call to a provider of the activity at the location to have relatively high magnitudes of prioritize values. Note that each of the above described interactions may be ranked relative to each other in the respect of subsets of interaction types. For example submitting a review may be ranked higher than participating in an activity whereas participating in an activity may be ranked higher than visiting a location at which the activity occurs whereas visiting the location at which the activity occurs may be ranked higher than making a telephone call related to the activity.

In some examples interaction based prediction manager may be configured to determine a location of an activity and calculate whether mobile computing device is co located with a location of an activity. If so interaction based prediction manager may be configured to identify a interaction type as a visit to the location. In some cases a ranking value may be assigned to data representing the visit to the location whereby the ranking value is indicative of a level of priority e.g. a prioritized value of same .

Interaction summarization generator may be configured to detect data representing another interaction with the user interface and to determine another prioritized value associated with the other interaction. Also interaction summarization generator may calculate an accumulated prioritized value based on the prioritized value and the another prioritized value. For example consider that a user first searches a key term for an activity and then telephones a location such as a restaurant as a result of information retrieved as part of the search result. Both of these interactions and the corresponding prioritize values may be aggregated or otherwise accumulated to indicate an enhanced level of interest. Further consider the user also participates in an activity at the destination such as having dinner at or traveling to a restaurant. The latter interaction may further bolster a level of interest of a user to engage in a restaurant based activity. As such restaurant based activities may be prioritized higher than other activities to match a particular user s interests and inclinations.

Instance predictor may be configured to predict participation in an activity as a function of the prioritized value. In some cases instance predictor may predict participation in an activity based on an accumulated prioritized value e.g. multiple interactions of a user and or maybe based on aggregate traveler interaction data which describes aggregated priorities and prioritize values associated with predominant interactions by other travelers or users.

Data channelizer may be configured to generate customized advisory data configured to cause presentation of a representation on the user interface. The representation may be linked to the customized advisory data to facilitate the participation in the activity. According to some examples data channelizer may receive data representing aggregated traveler interaction data and channelize the customized advisory data to a specific subset of one or more travelers based on data representing aggregated traveler interaction data. Note that location coordinates for an interaction and other interactions may be determined and information regarding one or more locations may be used to form the customized advisory data.

In some examples instance predictor and or data channelizer or portions thereof may be implemented in accordance with one or more examples described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 562 629 filed on Dec. 5 2014 entitled Adaptive Advisory Engine and Methods to Predict Preferential Activities Available at a Region Associated with Lodging is herein incorporated by reference.

Further to the example shown instance predictor may be configured to also receive traveler profile data e.g. as described in destination data traveler in situ data which include other data generated at a mobile device along with interaction types and data representing a prediction pattern stored in data arrangements in a prediction pattern data repository which may include patterns for determining predictions based on for example prioritized values of interaction types. Further instance predictor may be configured to generate prediction data including for example data representing one or more activities predicted as preferential activities for at least one certain traveler. Data channelizer is configured to receive prediction data aggregate traveler in situ data traveler in situ data and locality related data e.g. local weather conditions and hazard advisories etc. for selecting at least one preferential activity to which a traveler may be channelized according to customized advisory data . Note that elements depicted in diagram may include structures and or functions as similarly named or similarly numbered elements of other figures described herein.

According to some examples instance predictor may include one or more logic modules implemented as activity predictor meal predictor lodging predictor or other predictor including a collaborative predictor configured to predict one or more companions with which to participate in an activity. In the example shown activity predictor can be configured to determine a probability P activity may occur based on at least of value V as a function of for example a region a time frame and set of companions. In some examples the value V may be derived from prediction patterns indicating greater probabilities based on greater number of sequenced occurrences of activities that constitute a likely activity. For example the probability of snow skiing may be relatively high in a region including Aspen Colo. during the winter season and with a set of companions that ski frequently whereas the probability of snow skiing may be relatively low in the same region during the month of August i.e. the summer season . Optionally the probability of an activity may be determined by one or more weighting factors such as a weighting factor one w and a weighting factor two w . In some cases weighting factor one can represent a value indicative of a degree of relevancy. In one example weighting factor two w may represent a prioritized value or an accumulated aggregated prioritized value indicative of a level of interest by a user as determined by a user interaction. Further to the previous snow skiing example if a person or companions have no record of skiing then they may be up to view a film festival in Aspen rather than snow skiing. Thus in their case the probability of snow skiing may be driven to a relatively low probability by a low weighting value due to an absent record of skiing.

In some cases computing platform can be disposed in wearable device or implement a mobile computing device or any other device such as a computing device

Computing platform includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and devices such as processor system memory e.g. RAM etc. storage device e.g. ROM etc. a communication interface e.g. an Ethernet or wireless controller a Bluetooth controller etc. to facilitate communications via a port on communication link to communicate for example with a computing device including mobile computing and or communication devices with processors. Processor can be implemented with one or more central processing units CPUs such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation or one or more virtual processors as well as any combination of CPUs and virtual processors. Computing platform exchanges data representing inputs and outputs via input and output devices including but not limited to keyboards mice audio inputs e.g. speech to text devices user interfaces displays monitors cursors touch sensitive displays LCD or LED displays and other I O related devices.

According to some examples computing platform performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory and computing platform can be implemented in a client server arrangement peer to peer arrangement or as any mobile computing device including smart phones and the like. Such instructions or data may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. Instructions may be embedded in software or firmware. The term computer readable medium refers to any tangible medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks and the like. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. Instructions may further be transmitted or received using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium may include any tangible or intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such instructions. Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus for transmitting a computer data signal.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by computing platform . According to some examples computing platform can be coupled by communication link e.g. a wired network such as LAN PSTN or any wireless network including WiFi of various standards and protocols Blue Tooth Zig Bee etc. to any other processor to perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with or asynchronous to one another. Computing platform may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program code e.g. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in memory or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the example shown system memory can include various modules that include executable instructions to implement functionalities described herein. System memory may include an operating system O S as well as an application and or logic module s . In the example shown system memory includes an interaction based prediction management module including a data parser module an interaction summarization generator module and a prioritizer module one or more of which can be configured to provide or consume outputs to implement one or more functions described herein.

In at least some examples the structures and or functions of any of the above described features can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements above as well as their functionality may be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality may be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques. As hardware and or firmware the above described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming or integrated circuit design languages including hardware description languages such as any register transfer language RTL configured to design field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any other type of integrated circuit. According to some embodiments the term module can refer for example to an algorithm or a portion thereof and or logic implemented in either hardware circuitry or software or a combination thereof. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

In some embodiments interaction based prediction management module or one or more of their components or any process or device described herein can be in communication e.g. wired or wirelessly with a mobile device such as a mobile phone or computing device or can be disposed therein.

In some cases a mobile device or any networked computing device not shown in communication with interaction based prediction management module or one or more of their components or any process or device described herein can provide at least some of the structures and or functions of any of the features described herein. As depicted in the above described figures the structures and or functions of any of the above described features can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or any combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements above as well as their functionality may be aggregated or combined with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality may be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software at least some of the above described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques. For example at least one of the elements depicted in any of the figure can represent one or more algorithms. Or at least one of the elements can represent a portion of logic including a portion of hardware configured to provide constituent structures and or functionalities.

For example interaction based prediction management module or one or more of their components or any process or device described herein can be implemented in one or more computing devices i.e. any mobile computing device such as a wearable device an audio device such as headphones or a headset or mobile phone whether worn or carried that include one or more processors configured to execute one or more algorithms in memory. Thus at least some of the elements in the above described figures can represent one or more algorithms. Or at least one of the elements can represent a portion of logic including a portion of hardware configured to provide constituent structures and or functionalities. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

As hardware and or firmware the above described structures and techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or integrated circuit design languages including hardware description languages such as any register transfer language RTL configured to design field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs multi chip modules or any other type of integrated circuit.

For example interaction based prediction management module or one or more of their components or any process or device described herein can be implemented in one or more computing devices that include one or more circuits. Thus at least one of the elements in the above described figures can represent one or more components of hardware. Or at least one of the elements can represent a portion of logic including a portion of circuit configured to provide constituent structures and or functionalities.

According to some embodiments the term circuit can refer for example to any system including a number of components through which current flows to perform one or more functions the components including discrete and complex components. Examples of discrete components include transistors resistors capacitors inductors diodes and the like and examples of complex components include memory processors analog circuits digital circuits and the like including field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Therefore a circuit can include a system of electronic components and logic components e.g. logic configured to execute instructions such that a group of executable instructions of an algorithm for example and thus is a component of a circuit . According to some embodiments the term module can refer for example to an algorithm or a portion thereof and or logic implemented in either hardware circuitry or software or a combination thereof i.e. a module can be implemented as a circuit . In some embodiments algorithms and or the memory in which the algorithms are stored are components of a circuit. Thus the term circuit can also refer for example to a system of components including algorithms. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

In at least some examples the structures and or functions of any of the above described features can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements above as well as their functionality may be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality may be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any and or otherwise distributed among any number of elements.

Although the foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the above described inventive techniques are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the above described invention techniques. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

