---

title: Methods and system for providing drug pricing information from multiple pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs)
abstract: A system according to certain aspects of the disclosure provides drug pricing information from multiple PBMs to users. For example, the system may obtain, calculate, and/or estimate drug prices that are available under contracts or agreements between PBMs and various pharmacies. These prices may be prices of drugs for purchase at the various pharmacies. In response to requests for prices of particular drugs, the system can display relevant prices. For example, the system displays a price for each pharmacy chain and/or displays prices for a particular geographical area. The users can compare the prices for a particular drug and determine which pharmacy they would like to purchase the drug from. The system can provide a discount coupon that allows the users to purchase the drug at the price listed by the system at the selected pharmacy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712797&OS=08712797&RS=08712797
owner: GoodRx, Inc.
number: 08712797
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140121
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 769 617 filed Feb. 26 2013 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.

This invention relates to managing medical benefits and more particularly to managing pharmacy benefits to reduce costs.

According to one aspect a method of displaying prices for drugs from a plurality of pharmacy benefit managers is provided. The method can include providing a user interface using a computer processor. The method may further include receiving from the user interface information identifying a first drug. The method can additionally include obtaining a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first pharmacy benefit manager PBM wherein a pharmacy benefit manager processes a claim relating to a drug and has an agreement with a pharmacy relating to a price of one or more drugs the first set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the first set of prices being determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy. The method can further include obtaining a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second pharmacy benefit manager the second set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the second set of prices being determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. The method can also include displaying in the user interface at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices.

In some embodiments the method may further include receiving a selection of a price from the at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices displayed in the user interface. The method may also include generating a discount card or a discount coupon that provides access to the selected price for a purchase of the first drug at a pharmacy associated with the selected price. In certain embodiments the selected price may not be available to a customer for the purchase of the first drug at the pharmacy from a PBM associated with the selected price without the discount card or the discount coupon. In some embodiments the selected price may be provided under an agreement with the PBM associated with the selected price and the agreement may be different from an agreement between the PBM associated with the selected price and the pharmacy associated with the selected price. In some embodiments the discount card or the discount coupon may include an identification number that is recognized by a PBM associated with the selected price.

In certain embodiments the first PBM can administer claims relating to a first health insurance plan and an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the first health insurance plan and a first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The first set of prices may include the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The second PBM can administer claims relating to a second health insurance plan and an agreement between the second PBM and a second pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the second health insurance plan and a second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. The second set of prices may include the second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. In some embodiments the method can further include displaying in the user interface the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The method can also include in response to selection of the first price received from the user interface generating a discount coupon for a purchase of the first drug at the first price at the first pharmacy.

In some embodiments the information identifying the first drug may include a name of the first drug. In certain embodiments the method may further include receiving from the user interface location information. The method may also include prior to the displaying at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices filtering the first set of prices and the second set of prices based on the location information.

In certain embodiments the at least one price in the first set of prices may be obtained by using an API provided by the first PBM. In some embodiments the at least one price in the first set of prices can be obtained based on pricing rules for the first drug provided by the first PBM.

In some embodiments the first set of prices may include a first price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy and the second set of prices may include a second price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the second PBM and the first pharmacy. The displaying at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices of the method can include comparing the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug and displaying lower of the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug.

According to another aspect a system is provided for displaying prices for drugs from a plurality of pharmacy benefit managers. The system may include computer hardware comprising one or more computer processors. The system may also include a module executing on the one or more computer processors. The module can be configured to receive a request for one or more prices for a first drug. The module may be further configured to obtain a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first pharmacy benefit manager PBM wherein a pharmacy benefit manager processes a claim relating to a drug and has an agreement with a pharmacy relating to a price of one or more drugs the first set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the first set of prices being determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy. The module may be further configured to obtain a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second pharmacy benefit manager the second set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the second set of prices being determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. The module can be further configured to display in the user interface at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices.

In some embodiments the module may be further configured to receive a selection of a price from the at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices displayed in the user interface and generate a discount card or a discount coupon that provides access to the selected price for a purchase of the first drug at a pharmacy associated with the selected price. In certain embodiments the selected price may not be available to a customer for the purchase of the first drug at the pharmacy from a PBM associated with the selected price without the discount card or the discount coupon. In some embodiments the selected price may be provided under an agreement with the PBM associated with the selected price and the agreement may be different from an agreement between the PBM associated with the selected price and the pharmacy associated with the selected price. In certain embodiments the discount card or the discount coupon may include an identification number that is recognized by a PBM associated with the selected price.

In certain embodiments the first PBM can administer claims relating to a first health insurance plan and an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the first health insurance plan and a first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The first set of prices may include the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The second PBM can administer claims relating to a second health insurance plan and an agreement between the second PBM and a second pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the second health insurance plan and a second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. The second set of prices may include the second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. In some embodiments the module may be further configured to display in the user interface the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan and in response to selection of the first price received from the user interface generate a discount coupon for a purchase of the first drug at the first price at the first pharmacy.

In some embodiments the first set of prices may include a first price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy and the second set of prices may include a second price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the second PBM and the first pharmacy. The module may perform the displaying at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices at least in part by comparing the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug and displaying lower of the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug.

According to certain aspects a method of displaying prices for drugs from a plurality of pharmacy benefit managers is provided. The method may include providing a user interface using a computer processor. The method can further include receiving information identifying a first drug from the user interface. The method may additionally include obtaining a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first pharmacy benefit manager PBM wherein a pharmacy benefit manager processes a claim relating to a drug and has an agreement with one or more pharmacies relating to a price of one or more drugs the first set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the first set of prices being determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy. The method can further include obtaining a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second pharmacy benefit manager the second set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the second set of prices being determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. The method may also include ranking the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices for the first drug and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices for the first drug in an order that is different from lowest to highest. The method can also include displaying a price from the ranking in the user interface.

In some embodiments the ranking of the method may further include in response to determining that the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices is higher than or equal to the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices. In certain embodiments the ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices may be performed in response to determining that a difference between the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices does not exceed a threshold value. In some embodiments wherein the ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices may be based on a first acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the first set of prices and a second acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the second set of prices. In certain embodiments a higher ranked price from the ranking is displayed in the user interface. In some embodiments the method may further include determining a preferred order for ranking prices from the first PBM and prices from the second PBM. The preferred order may indicate that prices from the first PBM are to be ranked higher than prices from the second PBM.

In certain embodiments a first percentage may indicate a portion of prices from the first PBM to be displayed in the user interface. A second percentage may indicate a portion of prices from the second PBM to be displayed in the user interface. The ranking may include ranking the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices based at least in part on the first percentage and the second percentage. In some embodiments the second percentage may be linked to a threshold value for ranking prices from the first PBM over the second PBM such that adjusting the second percentage adjusts the threshold value and adjusting the threshold value adjusts the second percentage.

In some embodiments the first PBM can administer claims relating to a first health insurance plan and an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the first health insurance plan and a first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The first set of prices may include the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The second PBM can administer claims relating to a second health insurance plan and an agreement between the second PBM and a second pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the second health insurance plan and a second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. The second set of prices may include the second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. In certain embodiments the method can further include displaying in the user interface the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The method can also include in response to selection of the first price received from the user interface generating a discount coupon for a purchase of the first drug at the first price at the first pharmacy.

According to other aspects a system of displaying prices for drugs from a plurality of pharmacy benefit managers is provided. The system can include computer hardware comprising one or more computer processors. The system may further include a module executing on the one or more computer processors. The module can be configured to provide a user interface using a computer processor. The module may be further configured to receive information identifying a first drug from the user interface. The module may also be configured to obtain a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first pharmacy benefit manager PBM wherein a pharmacy benefit manager processes a claim relating to a drug and has an agreement with one or more pharmacies relating to a price of one or more drugs the first set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the first set of prices being determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy. The module may additionally be configured to obtain a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second pharmacy benefit manager the second set of prices comprising at least one price for the first drug and each price in the second set of prices being determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. The module can be further configured to rank the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices for the first drug and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices for the first drug in an order that is different from lowest to highest. The module may also be configured to display a price from the ranking in the user interface.

In some embodiments the module may perform the ranking at least in part by in response to determining that the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices is higher than or equal to the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices. In certain embodiments the module may perform the ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices for the first drug higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices for the first drug at least in part in response to determining that a difference between the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices does not exceed a threshold value. In some embodiments the module may perform the ranking the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices based at least in part on a first acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the first set of prices and a second acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the second set of prices. In certain embodiments a higher ranked price from the ranking may be displayed in the user interface. In some embodiments the module may be further configured to determine a preferred order for ranking prices from the first PBM and prices from the second PBM. The preferred order may indicate that prices from the first PBM are to be ranked higher than prices from the second PBM.

In certain embodiments a first percentage may indicate a portion of prices from the first PBM to be displayed in the user interface. A second percentage may indicate a portion of prices from the second PBM to be displayed in the user interface. The module may perform the ranking at least in part by ranking the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices based at least in part on the first percentage and the second percentage. In some embodiments the second percentage may be linked to a threshold value for ranking prices from the first PBM over the second PBM such that adjusting the second percentage adjusts the threshold value and adjusting the threshold value adjusts the second percentage.

In some embodiments the first PBM can administer claims relating to a first health insurance plan and an agreement between the first PBM and a first pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the first health insurance plan and a first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The first set of prices may include the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan. The second PBM can administer claims relating to a second health insurance plan and an agreement between the second PBM and a second pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the second health insurance plan and a second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. The second set of prices may include the second price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the second health insurance plan. In some embodiments the module may be further configured to display in the user interface the first price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the first health insurance plan and in response to selection of the first price received from the user interface generate a discount coupon for a purchase of the first drug at the first price at the first pharmacy.

For purposes of summarizing the disclosure certain aspects advantages and novel features of the inventions have been described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

The disclosure provided in the following pages describes examples of some embodiments of the invention. The designs figures and description are non limiting examples of some embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments of the system may or may not include the features disclosed herein. Moreover disclosed advantages and benefits may apply to only some embodiments of the invention and should not be used to limit the scope of the invention.

Health care costs in the United States have risen dramatically over the past several decades. To reduce such costs Pharmacy Benefit Managers PBMs have been used to process claims for prescription drug benefits. PBMs are typically entities that are independent of the benefit provider e.g. an insurance company and contract with the benefit provider to process claims for pharmacy benefits.

The distribution channels for prescription drugs are in many cases separated from the payment channels. For example a patient may be diagnosed by a physician as having a condition that requires medication. The physician then decides on a drug appropriate for treatment of the diagnosed condition and prepares a prescription for an appropriate drug. The patient then takes the prescription to a pharmacy for dispensing of the prescription drugs. If the patient has a prescription drug benefit e.g. through health insurance coverage the pharmacist will utilize their computer system to access the PBMs computer system to apply the negotiated charge. Consequently the patient may not be aware of the differing costs for the drug by different PBMs and or at different pharmacies.

Furthermore different PBMs operate under different agreements with pharmacies. For example the price for a drug associated with one PBM can often differ significantly with respect to a second PBM. Accordingly one PBM may provide a lower cost on one drug than other PBMs but have a much higher cost for other drugs. Indeed prices for the same drugs can vary significantly among different PBMs. Some PBMs also offer discount cards that enable a consumer to access their rate agreements with a pharmacy. These discount cards have consumer prices that differ by drug and by pharmacy and even different discount cards from the same PBM can have different consumer prices.

Many Americans assume that the solution is simply to obtain pay for health insurance or Medicare and thereby utilize a particular PBM and then show up at any pharmacy counter. While this may have been true years ago it is no longer reality. Insurance companies are increasing prescription drug deductibles and patient co pays while reducing the numbers and quantities of the drugs that they will pay for. Meanwhile hundreds of medicines can be purchased for cash for less than an insurance co pay.

In order to address these and other challenges a system according to certain aspects of the disclosure provides drug pricing information from multiple PBMs to users. For example the system may obtain calculate and or estimate drug prices that are available under contracts or agreements between PBMs and various pharmacies. These prices may be prices of drugs for purchase at the various pharmacies. The system can process the drug pricing information such that it can be readily provided to users in response to requests for prices of particular drugs. In response to such requests the system can display relevant prices. For example the system displays a price for each pharmacy chain and or displays prices for a particular geographical area. The users can compare the prices for a particular drug and determine which pharmacy they would like to purchase the drug from. The system can provide a discount coupon that allows the users to purchase the drug at the price listed by the system at the selected pharmacy.

The system can aggregate drug pricing information from multiple PBMs and present the data to the users in a simple and easy to digest manner. As such the system can provide users with convenience and valuable information that can translate into savings in time and costs.

In one embodiment of the inventive system the system identifies the lower cost pharmacy for a particular drug. A user enters information about a prescription such as the name of the drug generic or brand name the form and the dosage. The user also provides a location city state or ZIP and the system identifies the prices the user can obtain at both local and mail order pharmacies for a variety of dosages and quantities for that prescription.

The system searches the fee schedules associated with multiple PBM discount cards to identify lower cost prices. Because different pharmacies accept different discount cards and offer different consumer prices on those discount cards the system identifies which pharmacies will accept discount cards with the more advantageous cost savings. The system then offers discount cards presented to the user as free discount coupons that are printable as well as available for use on a mobile device from a variety of providers which gives the user access to the PBM discounted prices. The discount coupon identifies the relevant PBM and the associated price.

In one embodiment the system contracts with multiple PBMs such that the system can pass the PBM savings onto the users. The users do not need to contract directly with the PBMs. Rather the system is associated with multiple PBMs and prints the appropriate PBM discount coupon that a user can print and provide to a particular pharmacy.

In one embodiment the system works with multiple discount drug card providers that issue a discount card that provides access to pharmacy discounts at retail pharmacies. The system calculates the price for a particular drug dosage form or quantity at a given pharmacy using each of the discount cards. It does this either by performing a mock adjudication of a claim or by calculating the price based on pricing rules such as discount from lists such as Average Wholesale Price AWP or Maximum Allowable Cost MAC lists.

The system typically then displays the lowest price among the set of multiple discount cards allowing the system to provide lower prices than existing discount card products. The system in turn receives compensation from the discount drug card providers for prescription drug fills that take place using a particular card.

The system typically shows consumers the drug card with the lowest consumer price. In many cases though multiple cards will provide similar consumer prices even though the compensation paid by the discount card providers to the system may differ substantially. In order to maximize revenue the system ranks different cards such that for the same consumer price there is an order in which they are displayed.

In addition an administrator can specify an offset such that if an offset were set at 0.10 the higher ranked card would be displayed versus a lower ranked card as long as the consumer price for the higher ranked card was no more than 0.10 higher than the lower ranked card.

A pharmacy generally contracts with multiple PBMs for prices for various drugs. A pharmacy may be a part of a pharmacy chain that owns or is associated with multiple locations. For example large pharmacy chains like CVS Walgreens Rite Aid etc. have multiple retail locations across the U.S. In such case the pharmacy chain generally contracts with the PBMs for drug prices and the retail locations of the pharmacy chain use the prices under the contract.

A PBM generally administers and processes claims associated with a health insurance plan such as Anthem Aetna etc. For example a PBM and a pharmacy determines under an agreement what the price for a particular drug will be for a health plan. The members of the health plan are charged a certain price for the drug under the agreement between the PBM and the pharmacy. Often as part of the agreement between the PBM and the pharmacy the PBM may also negotiate drug prices for people who are not members of the health plan. These customers are unfunded because the health plan is not paying for these customers for their prescriptions. These customers may be referred to as unfunded group to facilitate explanation. Prices for unfunded group under agreements between PBMs and pharmacies may be referred to as unfunded drug prices. 

Although the unfunded group may not get the benefit of the prices available to members of the health plan the unfunded drug prices may still be much less than drug prices cash customers pay. Cash customers may refer to customers who purchase a drug without any discounted pricing e.g. available through a health plan and the prices the cash customers pay may be referred to as cash prices. The unfunded drug prices may be available through a pharmacy discount card or a discount card. Such discount cards may provide discounts on prescription drugs and or generic drugs. In certain embodiments the system can obtain and provide information about unfunded drug pricing under various contracts between PBMs and pharmacies.

A PBM can administer one or more networks within the PBM . A network may refer to one particular set of prices. For example a pharmacy can have multiple networks within the PBM . In such case the pharmacy may have one set of prices with the PBM under one network and another set of prices with the PBM under a different network. The price for the same drug may be different from one set of prices to another set of prices.

An entity associated with the system may negotiate and enter into an agreement with a PBM which is separate from the agreements between the PBM and pharmacies in order to access prices between the PBM and pharmacies. For example the entity may obtain or determine unfunded drug prices under various agreements between the PBM and the pharmacies. In some cases the prices available to the entity under the separate agreement with the PBMs may not be the exact prices agreed upon by PBMs and pharmacies but similar prices. In such case the system may provide users with prices that are similar or close to the prices agreed upon between the PBMs and the pharmacies.

The system may also communicate with other entities such as a pharmacy. For example the system can obtain drug pricing information from a particular pharmacy. In some embodiments the system processes prescription drug claims and may communicate with a pharmacy s system. In certain embodiments some of the functions provided by the system are integrated into an electronic medical record EMR system and the system may communicate with the EMR system.

The system can provide a user interface to receive input from a user and or to display information to the user. For example the user can enter information for obtaining drug pricing information through the user interface. The user interface can display drug pricing information and or other information to the user. The user interface may be provided on various computing devices such as a mobile phone a computer a tablet a laptop etc.

The system can communicate with the systems of PBMs. For example the system communicates with the PBM 1 system and the PBM 2 system . Such communication may occur through an interface such as an application programming interface API . The system can include one or more components that may be configured to provide drug prices from multiple PBMs. For example in the system includes a PBM Module that can perform or execute functions relating to providing drug prices from multiple PBMs. The system may include one or more other components as appropriate in order to implement the functionality of providing drug prices from multiple PBMs. The system may also include one or more databases to store the drug pricing information. Any component and or module of the system can reside on one computing device or on separate computing devices.

At data flow step the system obtains drug pricing information from a PBM system . As explained above a PBM can negotiate and contract with one or more pharmacies on prices for various drugs. For example PBM and Pharmacy A agree that the price for Drug A is 20 and Drug B is 30. In some embodiments a PBM administers multiple networks and a pharmacy may have different price arrangements with the PBM under each network. For instance PBM 1 administers claims for Network 1 and Network 2 and the price for Drug A for Pharmacy A under Network 1 is 20 and the price for Drug A for Pharmacy A under Network 2 is 15. In certain embodiments the drug price information the system obtains is unfunded drug prices. The price for Drug A for unfunded group might be 50 compared to 20 for members of a health plan.

The system can obtain information relating to negotiated drug prices between a PBM and one or more pharmacies from the PBM system . These prices can be prices for purchase of various drugs at the one or more pharmacies. The system may obtain the drug pricing information through an API. The PBM system may provide an API which includes functions that can be called by the system . The system can call various functions to obtain relevant information. The system may be able to perform mock adjudication of claims using the API in order to figure out drug prices charged by particular pharmacies. A mock adjudication can be performed by submitting information relating to drug name form dosage quantity pharmacy etc. The National Drug Code NDC may be submitted for mock adjudication. The NDC can refer to a code that is used to identify a drug based on manufacturer strength package size etc. The system may try to determine the NDC for a drug at a particular pharmacy or pharmacy chain to submit for mock adjudication. In one embodiment the system submits the NDC of the drug the quantity of the drug and pharmacy information to the mock adjudication API and the API returns the price for the drug.

In some cases the system may have access to actual claims data and determine the prices by analyzing the claims data. By analyzing the claims data the system can determine how much a pharmacy generally charges for a certain drug form dosage quantity with a particular PBM.

In some embodiments the system may not obtain drug pricing information from a PBM but estimate or calculate the drug prices for a particular pharmacy with that PBM. In one example a PBM provides a set of pricing rules for determining the price of various drugs. The pricing rules may be based on Average Wholesale Price AWP . For instance pricing rules may state that the price of a brand name drug is AWP 20 dispensing fee and the price of a generic drug is AWP 70 dispensing fee. Dispensing fee may refer to a fee associated with providing a drug e.g. filling a prescription . The AWP data can be published by and available from third parties. The PBM may also provide a list of prices called the Maximum Allowable Cost MAC list. The MAC list can indicate maximum amounts the PBM pays for brand name drugs and generic drugs and the prices in the MAC list may be exceptions to the pricing rules. The system can calculate the price of a drug according to the pricing rules compare it to the price in the MAC list and provide lower of the two prices. Pricing rules may vary by pharmacy. If a pharmacy has more than one network with a PBM the pricing rules can differ for each network with the PBM.

In certain embodiments the system can receive drug prices from sources other than PBMs. In one example the system receives the information directly from a source such as a pharmacy. For instance a pharmacy chain provides a list of the drug prices to the system .

In one embodiment the system obtains usual and customary U C prices for drugs from various sources. A U C price may refer to a cash price for a drug at a pharmacy. The system can provide U C prices for a drug for example when prices for the drug under agreements between the PBMs and pharmacies are not available. For instance if a pharmacy does not have an unfunded price for a drug under an agreement with a PBM the system can display the pharmacy s U C price for the drug instead.

At data flow step the system processes pricing information from the PBMs. In some embodiments the system obtains the information from the PBM systems through an API but the process of requesting and receiving the information may not be fast enough for real time access. In such case the system may cache the drug pricing information e.g. in the database . In one example the mock adjudication results from the PBM API are stored in the database . The information processed by the system can be stored in the database . shows one database for illustrative purposes but the system can include two more databases.

In some embodiments the pricing information obtained or determined at data flow step may be stored in the database prior to or without any processing by the system . For example the system may store any raw data before formatting or transforming the data according to the requirements of the system . In other embodiments the system may not perform any further processing with respect to the information obtained at data flow step .

At data flow step the system receives a request for drug pricing information from the user interface . The user interface can be provided on a computing device or a display associated with the computing device. The computing device can be for example a mobile phone a computer a tablet a laptop etc. as shown in . The user may enter information relating to a drug e.g. drug name in the user interface and the associated computing device can generate and send a request for drug pricing information to the system . The user interface may be a web interface a mobile application or any other appropriate form of user interface.

The request can include any information identifying a drug that the user is interested in finding out prices for. For example the request can include the name of a drug and the user enters the name of the drug in the user interface . In one embodiment the user clicks on an advertisement for a particular drug that links to the user interface and the user interface provides the name of the drug without the user having to enter the name. The request may also include location information. Some examples of location information include a zip code city address etc. The location information can be information that the system can use to narrow down the prices to those that are more relevant to a specific geographical area. The user may enter the location information in the user interface . In some embodiments the location information can be determined based on other factors such as an IP address with or without user input.

The system can search for or determine one or more prices for the requested drug. The prices may be prices from one or more pharmacies provided under agreements with different PBMs as obtained or determined at data flow step and or processed at data flow step . In some embodiments the system refers to the drug pricing information in the database to provide relevant prices to the user. As explained with data flow steps and the drug pricing information may have been obtained through APIs provided by the PBMs and stored in the database . The drug pricing information could also have been extracted from analyzing actual claims data. Or the drug pricing information may have been calculated from pricing rules or estimated in other ways. In other embodiments the system obtains or determines the prices when a request from the user interface is received. For instance the prices are calculated according to the pricing rules when the request is received. Various methods of obtaining and or determining prices including the methods mentioned above can be used together separately or in some combination. Information relating to prices or used in determining prices may be obtained or updated on demand e.g. in real time periodically e.g. on a regular basis at a fixed interval at a variable interval etc. etc. For example the system can obtain drug pricing information through the API e.g. on a daily basis or as requested. In another example the system can obtain the AWP from a third party source e.g. on a weekly basis. The system may also receive new pricing rules or updates to pricing rules periodically e.g. every month .

In one embodiment requests for drug pricing information are received and stored in a queue. Some drug prices are obtained through the API from the PBM but the speed of API may not be fast enough to provide the drug prices in real time. In such case the drug prices are cached. The first time a request is received for a specific drug for example for that day the prices are obtained from the API and stored in the cache. For subsequent requests the prices are provided from the cache.

At data flow step the system displays drug pricing information from PBMs in the user interface . The system may display a list of prices for the drug for which pricing information was requested at data flow step . The system can display prices from one or more pharmacies with multiple PBMs. As explained above in general a pharmacy contracts with multiple PBMs and PBMs contract with multiple pharmacies for drug prices. Therefore a pharmacy or a pharmacy chain may have multiple prices available for the same drug. In one embodiment the system displays prices from one or more pharmacies and displays multiple prices for each pharmacy.

In other embodiments the system displays prices for multiple pharmacies and displays one price for each pharmacy. For instance the system displays the lowest price for each pharmacy. In one example Pharmacy A has a price for Drug A with PBM 1 and another price for Drug A with PBM 2. Supposing the price for Drug A with PBM 1 is 25 and the price for Drug A with PBM 2 is 15 the system would display the price with PBM 2 since it is lower. Displaying the lowest price available from a pharmacy from multiple PBMs can be beneficial to the users since savings can be maximized. If there are two or more same lowest prices the system may select one to display arbitrarily or based on a variety of factors.

The prices displayed in the user interface may be the prices for the most commonly purchased package of the drug. A drug can be manufactured and packaged in different ways. For instance the same drug can be provided in different form e.g. tablet capsule etc. dosage e.g. 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg quantity e.g. 10 20 50 etc. etc. Form may refer to how the drug is delivered. Some examples of form include tablet capsule solution tube pump etc. Dosage may refer to the amount of drug included in each unit or package and can indicate the strength of the drug. The amount can be indicated by weight e.g. milligram mg gram g etc. volume e.g. milliliter ml etc. etc. Quantity may refer to the number of units included in a package. The same drug may also be available as the brand version or generic version. The user interface may display various options for indicating the package of the drug and the user can select options corresponding to the package of the drug that the user wants. Such options can include but is not limited to generic vs. brand form dosage quantity etc. The system can update the results to provide prices for the package of the drug selected by the user. The system may also display other information relating to the drug in the user interface .

The system can filter or narrow down the prices to be displayed based on the location information. In one embodiment the results can be filtered based on the zip code entered by the user. Zip code is used as one example but any other geographical or location indicator can be used such as an address. The system displays prices associated with pharmacy locations in proximity to the zip code. For example proximity is determined to be within a default radius from the zip code. The user can select or adjust the radius for the pharmacy locations and the results are updated accordingly. For example the user can select 5 10 15 20 25 miles etc. from the zip code. If a pharmacy has more than one location within the radius the user interface may display one price for the pharmacy and the user can click on the price or another link to view information relating to the different locations. In one embodiment the user interface displays the addresses for the different locations.

In a certain embodiment the user is not initially requested to enter location information. The system displays prices for a drug at major pharmacy chains without filtering the prices for a geographical area. Then the user may enter the location information and the user interface displays the prices relating to the location.

In some embodiments the default or initial radius of pharmacy locations is determined by the system based on factors like population density. For example in highly populated cities like New York or Los Angeles a smaller initial radius may be selected for example to avoid including too many results. The user can adjust the radius as appropriate in order to view prices for a larger area or a smaller area.

In certain embodiments the system displays a map of pharmacy locations within the default radius or user designated radius from the location information along with the prices associated with these pharmacy locations. The map can initially display pharmacy locations in the default radius and as the user changes the radius the map can be updated to show pharmacy locations in the changed radius. For instance if the radius is increased the map zooms out and displays more locations and if the radius is decreased the map zooms in and displays fewer locations.

The system can create an index to reduce the amount of time for searching for prices that are relevant to a specific location or geographical area. In one embodiment the system creates a two dimensional 2D geospatial index. For example when using a 2D geospatial index the prices are stored with relevant 2D geospatial point s and the prices can be queried using the 2D geospatial index. In another embodiment the system creates a three dimensional 3D geospatial index. A 3D geospatial index can have the spatial coordinates as the x axis and the y axis and have the drug price as the z axis.

The system can also filter the prices to be displayed in the user interface based on a variety of factors other than or including the location information. In one embodiment the user interface displays options relating to pharmacies and the user can choose which types of pharmacies to view prices for. Some examples of pharmacy options or types include 24 hour mail order home delivery compounding walk in clinic drive up window languages spoken major chains etc.

For a price displayed in the user interface the system can generate a discount coupon to purchase the drug at or close to the displayed price. A discount coupon can be for a specific pharmacy or a specific pharmacy location. In some embodiments the prices displayed are unfunded prices available under agreements between PBMs and pharmacies for unfunded group. The system provides a discount coupon in order to allow unfunded group to purchase the drug at unfunded prices.

A discount coupon for a drug can include the drug information and the price. The drug information may be the information relating to the specific package of the drug the user wants to purchase e.g. name form dosage quantity etc. as explained above. The discount coupon can include information such as PCN number bin number group number member ID etc. PCN number and or bin number can identify a PBM and group number can identify the entity associated with the system . Member ID may be an identifier assigned by the system under the agreement between the entity and the PBM identified by the PCN and or bin number. In one embodiment the member ID is used to identify the entity associated with the system . In another embodiment a combination of group number and member ID is used to identify the entity. Information included on a discount coupon is explained further with respect to .

The discount coupon can be printed emailed sent by text message etc. and presented at the pharmacy associated with the price for purchase of the drug at that price. In certain embodiments the actual price may not be exactly the same as purchase price but close to the listed price. The pharmacist can enter the PCN number bin number group number member ID or any combination thereof to provide the listed price to the user. In some embodiments the discount coupon includes a bar code QR code or another form of code that can be scanned by the pharmacist. Coupons can provide access to prices that were not previously available to a customer without the coupons. For example discount coupons provide unfunded drug prices to customers who are not members of a health insurance plan covered by the agreement between a pharmacy and a PBM. In addition the coupons allow customers to purchase at lower prices among the unfunded drug prices available from multiple PBMs.

The system can also provide a discount card in addition to discount coupons. A user can apply for a discount card which provides access to some or all of the prices provided by the system . Instead of printing a coupon for each price the user can present the discount card which a pharmacy can have in the user s record. The discount card then can work in a similar fashion as an insurance card and the user can purchase any drugs that have unfunded prices under the PBM pharmacy agreements at these prices. In some embodiments a discount coupon functions as a discount card. For example the pharmacist at a specific pharmacy enters the discount coupon in the user s record and the user can access the prices provided by the system for the pharmacy for subsequent purchases.

In one embodiment the price of the drug for the discount coupon is dynamically adjusted. For example if the cash price for a drug at a pharmacy is lower than the price of the drug provided by the system the system adjusts the price on the discount coupon to be lower than the cash price.

The system may rank the drug prices from multiple PBMs prior to displaying drug prices in the user interface . The system may display only some of the prices from the ranking process. Generally if a pharmacy has multiple prices for the same drug under agreements with different PBMs the system displays one price for the pharmacy. In one embodiment the system ranks the prices for a pharmacy from lowest to highest and displays the lowest price. For example a lower price is ranked higher than a higher price. In other embodiments the system ranks the prices for a pharmacy using methods other than lowest to highest. The system may choose to display only one price from a ranking process in the user interface e.g. highest ranked or lowest ranked price from the ranking process etc. .

In one embodiment the system may rank a higher price from one PBM as higher than or before a lower price from another PBM. The system may do so based on various factors. One such factor can be acceptance rate of a price or prices from a PBM at pharmacies. Another factor can be a partnership with a particular PBM. For instance a PBM may provide more accurate information regarding prices or provide additional benefits that can be passed on to consumers. The system may rank a higher price higher than a lower price if the difference between the higher price and the lower price does not exceed a threshold value or is less than the threshold value . Ranking a price higher than another price can refer to placing the price before the other price in a sequence. The threshold can be set low such that the impact on the price to the user is minimal. For example the threshold can be set to 0.10 0.20 etc. In general the threshold value is less than 1. The same threshold value may be set for all drugs provided by a PBM or a different threshold value can be set for a group of drugs or an individual drug provided by a PBM.

The system may rank prices from PBMs based on the in store acceptance rate of prices or coupons from a PBM at a particular pharmacy. An acceptance rate may refer to the rate at which a price or a coupon from a PBM is accepted at a specific pharmacy. The acceptance rate of a price can be affected by a variety of attributes or factors such as format of member ID and or group ID programmatic blocking by pharmacies system and or software used by pharmacies etc. Often the information on the coupon is entered manually into the pharmacy system by a pharmacist and can involve human error. Accordingly prices from PBMs that use simpler identifiers may have a higher success rate of being accepted at the pharmacy locations. The identifiers can include the member ID group ID bin number PCN number etc. By considering the acceptance rates associated with prices from a PBM the system can provide a price that is more likely to translate into a discount for the user.

In one example the in store acceptance rate of prices from PBM 1 is 85 and the in store acceptance rate of prices from PBM 2 is 70 . The price for Drug A at Pharmacy A under PBM 1 is 25.10 and the price for Drug A at Pharmacy A under PBM 2 is 25. The threshold value for ranking a higher paying PBM price higher is set to 0.10. Because PBM 1 has a higher acceptance rate but the price differential between the PBM 1 price and the PBM 2 price is 0.10 and does not exceed the threshold value the system ranks the PBM 1 price higher than the PBM 2 price. The system displays PBM 1 price for Pharmacy A in the user interface .

In some embodiments the system may rank a price based on either the acceptance rate or the threshold but not both. For example the system can rank a higher price having a higher acceptance rate higher than a lower price having a lower acceptance rate without applying a threshold to the price difference e.g. when the acceptance rate of a lower price is very low . A lower price that has an acceptance rate of 15 may not be as beneficial to the user as a higher price that has an acceptance rate of 95 . Or the system can rank a higher price over a lower price if the price difference does not exceed a threshold without considering the acceptance rate e.g. based on another factor such as order of preference for PBMs .

Prices with low acceptance rates or prices not being accepted may be excluded in the ranking process. For example if a particular class of drugs is not being processed at certain pharmacies or by certain PBMs the prices for these drugs would not be displayed even if they are lower prices. Prices having low acceptance rates including those not being accepted may not be included in the ranking or they may be ranked but excluded from being displayed. The system may define a threshold value for acceptance rates. Prices having acceptable rates that do not meet the threshold value e.g. less than the threshold value or less than or equal to the threshold value depending on the embodiment may be excluded from ranking and may not be displayed in the user interface . For example if the acceptance rate threshold is 50 and the acceptance rate of a price is 5 the price is not included in the ranking. The acceptance rate threshold value may be applied prior to ranking or subsequent to ranking. For instance the system can perform the ranking and determine whether the ranked prices to be displayed meet the acceptance rate threshold value e.g. whether the prices have acceptance rates that are greater than the threshold value or greater than or equal to the threshold value depending on the embodiment . Or the system can eliminate prices that do not meet the acceptance rate threshold value e.g. prices having acceptance rates that are less than the threshold value or less than or equal to the threshold value depending on embodiment before the ranking. An acceptance rate threshold value may be defined for each drug for a group of drugs e.g. particular class of drugs for all drugs etc.

Information relating to acceptance rates may be provided by the PBM or determined by the system . Acceptance rate information may be available for each drug for a group of drugs e.g. particular class of drugs or for all drugs. In one example the acceptance rate can be provided for each drug. In some cases one acceptance rate value may be provided for all drugs or some drugs the PBMs may not differentiate between individual drugs in determining the acceptance rate. If a PBM has multiple networks the acceptance rate information can be provided for each network.

In one embodiment the system compares the number of coupons printed and or viewed and the number of in pharmacy redemption of coupons in order to determine the acceptance rate. If a coupon for a drug is frequently viewed or printed by users but has a low in store conversion rate this could flag that there is an issue with acceptance of the price or coupon. For instance the coupon for Drug A with the price from PBM 1 at Pharmacy A may be printed or viewed 100 times but only result in 45 redemptions at Pharmacy A. In such case the acceptance rate of the price from PBM 1 for Drug A at Pharmacy A is 45 . On the other hand the coupon for Drug A with the price from PBM 2 at Pharmacy A may be printed or viewed 100 times and result in 95 redemptions at Pharmacy A. The acceptance rate of the price from PBM 2 for Drug A at Pharmacy A is 95 . The acceptance rate can be based on the number of prints and or views and the number of redemptions for a particular period of time e.g. monthly biweekly weekly daily etc. . The print and or view count and redemption count for coupons or prices from different PBMs may be available from historical data. The print and or view count and redemption count for coupons or prices may also be available from current data e.g. from the same day week etc. .

In certain embodiments if there are more than two PBMs the system can list the PBMs in order of preference and determine multiple threshold values for listing one PBM over another PBM. For instance there are three PBMs PBM 1 PBM 2 PBM 3 and the preference for listing prices from these PBMs are in the order of PBM 3 PBM 1 and PBM 2. The system defines a threshold value for listing prices from PBM 3 over prices from PBM 1 and a threshold value for listing prices from PBM 1 over prices from PBM 2. Accordingly the system can rank prices from multiple PBMs for a pharmacy given that the price difference between one PBM and another PBM does not exceed the designated threshold.

In one embodiment the system may determine whether to rank a price from one PBM higher than a price from another PBM based on the percentage of prices to show for a specific PBM. Referring to the example above if there are three PBMs PBM 1 PBM 2 PBM 3 the system designates a percentage of prices to display from PBM 1 a percentage of prices to display from PBM 2 and a percentage of prices to display from PBM 3. For instance the percentage for PBM 3 can be 50 the percentage for PBM 1 can be 30 and the percentage for PBM 2 can be 20 . In certain embodiments the percentage for a PBM is linked to the threshold value for listing one PBM over another. For example the percentage for displaying prices from PBM 1 is linked to the threshold value for listing PBM 3 over PBM 1 such that when the threshold value is changed the percentage is updated. If the percentage is changed the threshold value is updated.

The system can also choose to rank the prices from different PBMs based on various factors other than or in addition to acceptance rate and PBM partnership such as compensation by a PBM to the entity for a purchase of a drug e.g. filling a prescription . Such ranking may sort the prices in an order that is different from a lowest to highest ranking.

In this manner the system can allow users to purchase drugs at prices that were not previously available to them by utilizing the discount coupons. The entity associated with system can enter into agreements with the PBMs and pass on the savings to users. By obtaining and or determining drug pricing information from multiple PBMs and selecting lower prices available from each PBM to provide to the users the entity can create a new discount network of prices. The entity can also make unfunded drug prices available to the users which can save a significant amount of money. Often the cash price of a drug is multiple times the unfunded price of the drug. Users without health insurance plans can benefit from reduced prices almost all of the time. And even users with health insurance plans can benefit when a drug is not covered under their plans or the system provides better prices for the drug. As explained above the system can provide a convenient and easy to use user interface making it simple for users to find the information they are looking for.

In some embodiments the system is integrated into an EMR system. The system can provide an API that can be called by the EMR system. For example the EMR system calls one or more functions of the API to determine which pharmacy to send a patient s prescription to. Or the EMR system can present a link to a patient so that the patient can choose a specific pharmacy location based on the drug pricing information.

The system may also display other information relating to a drug in the user interface . The system could also provide additional information that may be helpful to users. Such information is explained in more detail with respect to .

At block the system provides a user interface for providing drug pricing information. Users can request pricing information about a specific drug via the user interface . For example the user can enter the name of the drug and the user s zip code in the user interface and send a request for pricing information.

At block the system receives from the user interface information identifying a first drug. The information can include the name of the drug. The system can also receive location information from the user interface .

At block the system obtains a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first pharmacy benefit manager PBM . A PBM may process a claim relating to a drug and have an agreement with a pharmacy relating to a price of one or more drugs e.g. by a contract . The first set of prices can include at least one price for the first drug and each price in the first set of prices can be determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy. Each price in the first set of prices may be a price for purchase of the first drug at the pharmacy associated with the price.

In one embodiment the at least one price in the first set of prices is obtained by performing of a mock adjudication of a claim relating to the first drug using an API provided by the first PBM. In another embodiment the at least one price in the first set of prices is obtained based on pricing rules for the first drug provided by the first PBM.

At block the system obtains a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second PBM. The second set of prices can include at least one price for the first drug and each price in the second set of prices can be determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. Each price in the second set of prices may be a price for purchase of the first drug at the pharmacy associated with the price. The pharmacy for the first set of the prices and the second set of prices may be the same pharmacy or different pharmacies.

In one embodiment similar to block the at least one price in the second set of prices is obtained by performing of a mock adjudication of a claim relating to the first drug using an API provided by the second PBM. In another embodiment the at least one price in the second set of prices is obtained based on pricing rules for the first drug provided by the second PBM.

In some embodiments the first PBM may administer claims relating to a health insurance plan and an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the health insurance plan and a price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the health insurance plan. The first set of prices can include the price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the health insurance plan which may be referred to as the non member price. 

Similarly the second PBM may administer claims relating to a health insurance plan. The health insurance plan may be the same plan as or a different plan from the one administered by the first PBM. An agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy may specify a price of the first drug for a member of the health insurance plan and a price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the health insurance plan. The second set of prices can include the price of the first drug for a customer that is not a member of the health insurance plan. The pharmacy may be the same pharmacy with which the first PBM has an agreement or a different pharmacy from the pharmacy with which the first PBM has an agreement. In these embodiments the system may display the non member price for the first drug included in the first set of prices or the non member price for the first drug included in the second set of prices.

At block the system displays in the user interface at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices. The first set of prices and the second set of prices each include at least one price for the same drug but the system may not list a price from each set. For example if the price of the first drug in the first set and the price of the first drug in the second set are for the same pharmacy the system can list one of the prices e.g. the lower price .

In one embodiment the first set of prices includes a price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy and the second set of prices includes a second price for the first drug determined by an agreement between the second PBM and the pharmacy. The system compares the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug and displays lower of the first price for the first drug and the second price for the first drug. In another embodiment as explained above if an agreement between a PBM and a pharmacy specifies a non member price for the first drug the system displays the non member price in the user interface .

In some embodiments the system filters the first set of prices and the second set of prices based on the location information prior to displaying at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices in the user interface .

The process can include fewer more or different blocks than those illustrated in without departing from the spirit and scope of the description. Moreover it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and others that some or all of the functions described in this disclosure may be embodied in software executed by one or more processors of the disclosed components and mobile communication devices. The software may be persistently stored in any type of non volatile storage.

Blocks through are similar to blocks through in respectively. Details relating to blocks through are described in detail with respect to . At block the system provides a user interface . At block the system receives information input in the user interface . At block the system obtains a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first PBM. At block the system obtains a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second PBM. At block the system displays in the user interface at least a portion of the first set of prices and the second set of prices.

At block the system receives a selection of a price from one or more prices displayed in the user interface . For example the user can select a price among the prices displayed in the user interface .

At block the system generates a discount card or coupon that provides access to the selected price for a purchase of the first drug at a pharmacy associated with the selected price. Without the discount card or the discount coupon the selected price from a PBM associated with the selected price may not available to a customer for the purchase of the first drug at the pharmacy. The discount card or the discount coupon can include an identification number that is recognized by the PBM associated with the selected price. The selected price can be provided under an agreement between an entity associated with the system and the PBM associated with the selected price where this agreement is different from an agreement between the PBM associated with the selected price and the pharmacy associated with the selected price.

In one embodiment if an agreement between a PBM and a pharmacy specifies a price of the first drug for customers who are not members of a health insurance plan the system displays in the user interface the price of the first drug for non member customers. If the user selects the non member price in the user interface the system generates a discount coupon for the purchase of the first drug at the non member price at the pharmacy.

The process can include fewer more or different blocks than those illustrated in without departing from the spirit and scope of the description. Moreover it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and others that some or all of the functions described in this disclosure may be embodied in software executed by one or more processors of the disclosed components and mobile communication devices. The software may be persistently stored in any type of non volatile storage.

Blocks through are similar to blocks through in and blocks through in respectively. Details relating to blocks through are described in detail with respect to . At block the system provides a user interface . At block the system receives from the user interface information identifying a first drug. At block the system obtains a first set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a first PBM. At block the system obtains a second set of prices for the first drug that is associated with a second PBM. The first set of prices can be determined by an agreement between the first PBM and a pharmacy and the second set of prices can be determined by an agreement between the second PBM and a pharmacy. The pharmacy for the first set of the prices and the second set of prices may be the same pharmacy or different pharmacies.

At block the system ranks the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices for the first drug and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices for the first drug in an order that is different from lowest to highest.

The system may determine that the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices is higher than or equal to the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices but rank the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices. In one embodiment the system may rank the at least one price in the first set of prices higher than the at least one price in the second set of prices based on an acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the first set of prices and an acceptance rate associated with the at least one price in the second set of prices. An acceptance rate may refer to the rate at which a price or prices provided by a PBM are accepted at a particular pharmacy. If a pharmacy has multiple networks with a PBM the acceptance rates can differ for each network. Acceptance rate information may be available per drug per group of drugs for all drugs in a network etc. The system may rank the higher price higher when the difference between the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices does not exceed a threshold value. For example the threshold value can be a very small number to minimize any impact on the customer price for the drug. Examples of the threshold value include 0.10 0.20 amounts under 1 etc. The system generally displays the higher ranked price from the ranking process in the user interface .

The system may also specify a preferred order for ranking prices from the first PBM and prices from the second PBM. The preferred order can indicate that prices from the first PBM are to be ranked higher than prices from the second PBM. In general higher ranked prices have a higher level of importance or priority. For example higher ranked prices list may appear first in a sequence.

In one embodiment the system determines share of prices to display from a certain PBM by designating percentages for different PBMs. For example the system can determine a first percentage that indicates a portion of prices from the first PBM to be displayed in the user interface and a second percentage that indicates a portion of prices from the second PBM to be displayed in the user interface . The ranking can be performed by ranking the at least one price for the first drug in the first set of prices and the at least one price for the first drug in the second set of prices based at least in part on the first percentage and the second percentage. A percentage may be linked to a threshold value for ranking prices from one PBM over another PBM such that adjusting the percentage adjusts the threshold value and adjusting the threshold value adjusts the percentage.

At block the system displays a price from the ranking in the user interface . For example the highest ranked price may be listed for a specific pharmacy. The user can select a displayed price for example to purchase a drug at the selected price. In one embodiment the system generates a discount card or coupon that provides access to the selected price for the purchase of the first drug at a pharmacy associated with the selected price.

The process can include fewer more or different blocks than those illustrated in without departing from the spirit and scope of the description. Moreover it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and others that some or all of the functions described in this disclosure may be embodied in software executed by one or more processors of the disclosed components and mobile communication devices. The software may be persistently stored in any type of non volatile storage.

The coupon may also include the price for the drug for a particular pharmacy . A pharmacy chain may have multiple locations within a geographical area of interest and in such case the coupon can indicate a particular pharmacy location. In the pharmacy is a Target pharmacy and the pharmacy location is at 2300 Park Avenue Tustin Calif. The listed price for the package of the drug designated by the drug information is 15.14.

The discount coupon may also include the member ID group number bin number and PCN number which may be referred to collectively as pharmacist info . The pharmacist info may be entered by a pharmacist at a pharmacy for the purchase of the drug. As explained above the member ID may be an identifier assigned by the system under an agreement between the entity associated with the system and the PBM the price is provided by. A unique or rotating member ID can be assigned to a specific user. The group number can identify the entity associated with the system . The bin number and or the PCN number can identify the PBM. In one embodiment the member ID is used to identify the entity associated with the system . In another embodiment a combination of the member ID and the group number is used to identify the entity. In the example of the member ID is 01GR904059900000 the group ID is 06340001 the bin number is 600428 and the PCN number is 05100000. 

The discount coupon can include other information such as a phone number for a help line a phone number for pharmacists etc. A discount card may include similar information other than a particular pharmacy since discount cards can be accepted at multiple pharmacies.

The example user interface in may also include various menu items. Some examples include a menu item for downloading a mobile application for requesting drug prices from the system a menu item for applying for a discount card a menu item for registering to become of a member of the system and a menu item for signing in for registered members. The system can store information for registered members such as drugs purchased by members using discount coupons provided by the system . The system can also provide additional features such as providing price alerts prescription fill alerts etc.

When there is more than one type of package available for a drug the user interface can display various options for indicating a particular package of the drug. For example the system can provide options for generic or band version options for form options for dosage options for quantity etc. The user can select an appropriate option for each category to select the package of the drug that the user wants. In the example of atorvastatin is available as generic or brand version and the generic name and the brand name of the drug are provided as options for the drug name . The only option for form is tablet. The options for dosage are 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg and 80 mg. The options for quantity are 15 tablets 30 tablets 45 tablets 60 tablets and 90 tablets. The user interface also provides an input field for entering a desired quantity . The options corresponding to the package for which the prices are currently displayed are selected under each category. In this example the prices are for the generic version atorvastatin in tablet form having 20 mg dosage in quantity of 30 tablets and these options are marked in the user interface . The user can select any of the options provided under each category to designate a combination of options that the user is interested in.

The user interface may also display prices for the drug available from one or more pharmacies. The prices may be for the most common or user selected package for the drug. In one embodiment the user interface displays a default number of prices and if there are any additional prices not displayed provides a link or a button to show the additional prices. In the example of each price is associated with one pharmacy. If there is more than one price for each pharmacy the multiple prices for the pharmacy may have been ranked according to a lowest to highest algorithm or another ranking method as discussed above. The system can display one price for each pharmacy for example the highest ranked price. The price for Walmart is 15.14 with a discount coupon. The price for Target is also 15.14 with a discount coupon. The price for HealthWarehouse an online pharmacy is 16.00 without a discount coupon and so on. In the example of the prices from different pharmacies are listed in the order of lowest to highest. For a price that is available through a discount coupon the user interface displays a button for obtaining a discount coupon for that price . The coupon can be accepted at the pharmacy associated with the price . Details relating to the coupon are explained in more detail with respect to .

In some embodiments the user may not see a price listed for a pharmacy of the user s interest and the system provides a generic discount coupon that can be used at pharmacies not listed in the user interface . Such pharmacies may be independent pharmacies not associated with large pharmacy chains. PBMs may provide prices for such independent pharmacies to the entity associated with the system .

The user interface can also display the location information relating to the prices . The location information can be entered by the user. The user interface may also indicate the default radius for including pharmacy locations relating to the location information . In the default radius is listed as 4 miles. The user can change the radius as appropriate. For example the user can select from a list of options in a drop down menu. The user may be able to change the location information after the prices are initially displayed and the displayed prices can change based on the location information . The user interface can provide an input field for entering a new city zip code address etc. The user interface may also provide a map showing a region that includes the pharmacy locations for the prices displayed in the user interface . As the user updates the location information or the default radius the map can change to reflect the updated information.

The user interface may also display pharmacy options . As explained above the user can choose which types of pharmacies to view prices for. Some examples of pharmacy options or types include 24 hour mail order home delivery compounding walk in clinic drive up window languages spoken major chains etc.

The example user interface in may also include other types of information relating to the drug such as a description of the drug side effects images of the drug news relating to the drug advertisements relating to the drug etc. The user interface can also provide other useful information such as savings tips.

The various illustrative processes described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and states have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. However while the various modules are illustrated separately they may share some or all of the same underlying logic or code. Certain of the logical blocks modules and processes described herein may instead be implemented monolithically.

The various processes described herein may be implemented or performed by a machine such as a computer a processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor may be a microprocessor a controller microcontroller state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors or processor cores one or more graphics or stream processors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP or any other such configuration.

The processes described herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. For example each of the processes described above may also be embodied in and fully automated by software modules executed by one or more machines such as computers or computer processors. A module may reside in a computer readable storage medium such as RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM memory capable of storing firmware or any other form of computer readable storage medium known in the art. An exemplary computer readable storage medium can be coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the computer readable storage medium. In the alternative the computer readable storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the computer readable storage medium may reside in an ASIC.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the processes or algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence may be added merged or left out all together. Thus in certain embodiments not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the processes. Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events may be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or via multiple processors or processor cores rather than sequentially.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and from the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the logical blocks modules and processes illustrated may be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein may be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features may be used or practiced separately from others.

