---

title: Apparatus and methods for reducing soft buffer size in MTC devices
abstract: A machine type communication (MTC) device is configured to communicate through a long term evolution (LTE) network. The MTC device include a wireless transceiver to receive a signal through the LTE network, a soft buffer configured to store a plurality of soft channel bits for up to a maximum number of hybrid automatic retransmission request (HARQ) processes, and a signal processing unit. The signal processing unit is configured to determine a total number of soft channel bits based at least on the maximum number of HARQ processes, and to use limited buffer rate matching (LBRM) to store a reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits in the soft buffer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654584&OS=09654584&RS=09654584
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09654584
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 968 282 filed Mar. 20 2014 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 985 391 filed Apr. 28 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 990 619 filed May 8 2014 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to wireless communication networks. Specifically this disclosure relates to low cost machine type communication MTC devices.

Machine type communication MTC also called machine to machine M2M communication is of interest to mobile network operators equipment vendors MTC specialist companies and research bodies. M2M communications enable M2M components to be interconnected networked and controlled remotely with low cost scalable and reliable technologies. Such M2M communications could be carried over mobile networks in which case the role of mobile network is largely confined to serve as a transport network.

A user equipment device or simply UE used as an MTC device for MTC communications in MTC applications or simply MTC has characteristics such as being nomadically re deployed having low mobility while deployed being deployed in locations with low signal strength e.g. in poor coverage areas proving low priority communications and infrequently sending small amounts of mobile originated MO or mobile terminated MT data. For example a smart meter for utility metering applications is a type of UE used as an MTC device referred to generally as a UE . Such metering devices could monitor municipal utility service usage to periodically report information on energy consumption to service providers. Metering devices may autonomously push reports of usage information to a centralized node in a network or the centralized node may poll metering devices as reporting information is needed.

Road security is another example application of monitoring. For instance in the event of a car accident an in vehicle emergency call service would autonomously report location information of the car accident to an emergency first responder and thereby facilitate prompt assistance. Other road security applications for monitoring include intelligent traffic management automatic ticketing fleet management and other uses.

Consumer electronics including devices such as eBook readers digital cameras personal computers and navigation systems could also benefit from monitoring. For example such devices could use monitoring to upgrade firmware or to upload and download online content.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

MTC devices are generally low cost devices. However there is an effort to further reduce the cost and size of low cost MTC devices. As discussed below rate matching in user equipment UE such as MTC devices generally uses a large amount of memory to store soft channel bits for hybrid automatic retransmission request HARQ processes. The soft channel bits are related to the implementation of soft buffer size. Certain embodiments disclosed herein reduce the soft channel bits to reduce size and cost in terms of memory for MTC devices. In such embodiments the soft buffer size is a function of a maximum supported transport block TB size the number of HARQ processes turbo encoding and decoding and application of limited buffer rate matching LBRM . Certain embodiments may reduce the number of soft channel bits by about 50 as compared to other approaches using the same number of HARQ processes. In addition or in other embodiments the cost savings may be increased by lowering the number of HARQ processes for low cost MTC devices.

In a third generation partnership project 3GPP radio access network RAN long term evolution LTE system a node may be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The DL transmission may be a communication from the node e.g. eNB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the UL transmission may be a communication from the wireless device to the node. As used herein the terms node and cell are both intended to be synonymous and refer to a wireless transmission point operable to communicate with multiple user equipment such as an eNB a low power node or other base station.

The MTC device includes an arrangement which is shown surrounded by a dashed line. The MTC device may be a low cost MTC device. The MTC device and arrangement is further illustrated as to communicate with other entities via a communication unit which may be regarded as part of the arrangement . The communication unit comprises means for communication such as a receiver Rx and a transmitter Tx or a transceiver. The communication unit may alternatively be denoted interface . The arrangement may further comprise other functional units such as functional units providing regular UE functions and may further comprise one or more memory units .

The arrangement may be implemented for example by one or more of a processor or a microprocessor and adequate software and memory for storing thereof a programmable logic device PLD or other electronic component s or processing circuitry configured to perform the actions described herein.

The arrangement comprises a receiver unit adapted to receive a signal via a carrier e.g. an UL carrier a DL carrier an M2M carrier or a device to device D2D carrier . The receiver unit passes the signal to a signal processing unit .

The transmitting entity e.g. the eNB or the UE shown in upon receiving the HARQ feedback indicating the MTC device has not successfully received the TB attempts to retransmit the TB. The retransmitted TB is put through the same functional blocks as before but when the MTC device attempts to decode the retransmitted TB at block the MTC device retrieves the LLRs for the TB from its memory unit and uses the HARQ combining element to combine the received LLRs and the stored LLRs for the TB in a process known as soft combining. The combined LLRs are provided to the decoder at block which decodes the TB and provides the successfully decoded TB to higher layers for further processing.

The soft buffer may also be referred to as a HARQ memory or HARQ buffer. Since there are multiple HARQ processes a HARQ process index or HARQ identity typically signaled using an explicit field within downlink control information DCI format associated with the TB e.g. for downlink or implicitly determined via subframe number SN system frame number SFN etc. e.g. for uplink is made available for the HARQ combining element to correctly perform the combining operation. For the uplink transmission the implicit HARQ process index is used by the MTC device to correctly determine the coded bits for uplink transmissions. If the MTC device is configured with a transmission mode with a maximum of one TB per HARQ process or one TB per transmission timing interval TTI the soft buffer of the MTC device may be divided into eight partitions as shown in .

For frequency division duplexing FDD for a given component carrier the MTC device may have eight HARQ processes in DL. In some scenarios if the MTC device has insufficient amount of storage for a given transport block and a decoding failure occurs the MTC device may choose to store some LLRs and discard some other LLRs. In other scenarios if no storage is available or no storage is deemed necessary for a transport block if a decoding failure occurs the MTC device may discard all LLRs corresponding to the transport block. Such scenarios typically occur where the network entity transmits a quantity of coded bits that exceed the storage capacity of the UE. For FDD and for uplink for a given component carrier the MTC device may have eight HARQ processes when the MTC device is not configured in UL MIMO transmission mode. For TDD the number of HARQ processes for the uplink is determined based on the TDD UL DL configuration.

With reference to Table 1 the soft buffer dimensioning for a low cost MTC device i.e. a UE Category 0 in 3GPP LTE standards when using full buffer rate matching FBRM is determined by the total number of soft channel bits. The derivation of the soft buffer size is based on the maximum TB size turbo encoding decoding and the number of HARQ processes.

For low cost MTC devices using FBRM the soft buffer size corresponds to the total number of soft channel bits 25344 bits which is derived as follows 

Certain embodiments further reduce the cost of low cost MTC devices by applying LBRM to reduce the total number of soft channel bits. For LTE up to 50 soft buffer reduction is provided by LBRM for the higher UE categories e.g. 3 4 and 5 while it is not applied to the lower UE categories e.g. 1 and 2 . There may be little or no noticeable performance difference particularly when up to four HARQ processes are used. Even when using more than four HARQ processes the performance degradation using LBRM may be very marginal.

As shown in Table 2 in certain embodiments using LBRM with low cost MTC devices reduces the soft buffer size to 12672 25344 2 bits. In general the total number of soft channel bits is calculated with LBRM as follows Total number of soft channel bits mother code rating max HARQ processes 2. Note that if any parameters to derive V subblock interleave size are changed it may be reflected by the above equation as illustrated in examples below .

For low cost MTC devices there is little or no performance loss between LBRM and FBRM when TB size TBS is equal to or smaller than TBS max 2 or when the MTC device is operating around the signal to noise ratio SNR point or when effective coding rate is equal to or greater than 2 TBS 3 TBS max with CC Chase Combining or for initial transmission only with incremental redundancy IR .

For example are graphs showing performance comparisons between FBRM and LBRM according to certain embodiments. The illustrated performance comparisons between FBRM and LBRM are in terms of initial transmission block error rate BLER in and normalized throughput in . illustrate examples using quadrature phase shift keying QPSK and six physical resource blocks PRBs . illustrate examples using 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM and three PRBs. illustrate examples using 64 QAM and two PRBs. The simulation model and parameters for each of the example graphs include a bandwidth of 10 MHz a carrier frequency of 2 GHz an FDD frame type a TM transmission mode a multiple input multiple output MIMO configuration of 2 1 with low correlation an extended pedestrian A EPA channel model a Doppler shift of 1 Hz and a target BLER of 10 . In the simulations two TBS sizes are considered 500 and 1000 bits which correspond to effective coding rates of and respectively.

From the plots it can be observed that BLER performance difference for initial transmission between FBRM and LRBM is negligible. In addition when considering the operating SNR points assuming 10 BLER in no throughput performance degradation is observed for LBRM. Accordingly in certain embodiments a low cost MTC device uses LBRM and includes a soft buffer size of no more than 12672 bits.

In addition or in other embodiments the soft buffer size is reduced even more when half duplex FDD HD FDD is used to reduce the number of HARQ processes. For HD FDD due to half duplex restraints e.g. simultaneous transmit and receive may not be allowed in certain embodiments not every subframe SF can be used for transmitting and receiving. Thus the number of HARQ processes can be reduced to further reduce the soft buffer size.

For example illustrate example HARQ processes for a low cost MTC UE according to certain embodiments. In these examples a transition time between UL and DL may be up to about 1 ms one subframe e.g. if a single oscillator is used for the low cost MTC UE.

A first HARQ process corresponds to SF and SF as denoted by 0 above SF and SF . A second HARQ process corresponds to SF as denoted by 1 above SF . A third HARQ process is corresponding to SF as denoted by 2 above SF . In this example SF SF SF SF and SF cannot be used by the MTC UE for reception DL for HD FDD due to switching time and UL transmission. Further the MTC UE cannot use SF SF SF SF SF SF and SF for transmission UL for HD FDD due to switching time and DL reception. From the illustrated operation the maximum number of HARQ processes for half duplex low cost MTC UE is three. As shown in Table 3 when the number of HARQ processes for HD FDD is three the total number of soft channel bits with LBRM can be 1056 3 1 3 2 4752 bits.

While the example shown in shows SF used for a third HARQ process shows an example where SF is not used for a HARQ process. Accordingly the maximum number of HARQ processes is two for the half duplex in low cost MTC UE with 1 ms transition time in . As shown in Table 3 when the number of HARQ processes for HD FDD is two the total number of soft channel bits with LBRM may be 1056 3 1 2 2 3168 bits.

If considering the HARQ buffer for system information block SIB together the maximum number of HARQ processes for half duplex low cost MTC UE is four which Table 3 shows corresponds to 4752 total soft channel bits for HD FDD. The maximum number of HARQ processes for half duplex low cost MTC UE can also be one to have a minimum cost. As shown in Table 3 when the number of HARQ processes for HD FDD is 1 the total number of soft channel bits with LBRM can be 1056 3 1 1 2 1584 bits.

At least some of the values shown in Table 3 may also apply to full duplex FDD FD FDD . Further the values shown in Table 3 are provided by way of example and persons skilled in the art will recognize from the disclosure herein that changes to system configurations may produce different results for the total number of soft channel bits. For example Table 4 shows variations in certain system parameters when the maximum TBS 968 bits and when the maximum TBS 1032 bits. Table 5 and Table 6 show the resulting changes to the total number of soft channel bits.

Other parameters may be changed to reduce the number of HARQ processes. For example illustrate example HARQ processes for a low cost MTC UE with different HARQ round trip timer RTT timers. The HARQ RTT timer is a parameter that specifies a minimum amount of subframe s before DL HARQ retransmission is expected by the UE. shows the HARQ operation with 1 ms transmission gap for HARQ RTT timer 14. By changing HARQ RTT timer from 8to 14 the maximum number of HARQ processes becomes four. Similarly shows the HARQ operation with 1 ms transition gap for HARQ RTT timer 7. By changing HARQ RTT timer from 8 to 7 the maximum number of HARQ processes becomes two.

There may be a trade off between the number of HARQ processes and the HARQ RTT timer. With a larger HARQ RTT timer a larger maximum number of HARQ processes can be achieved. For example if the HARQ RTT timer 21 the maximum number of HARQ processes becomes six.

Table 7 shows further examples of different HARQ RTT timers and corresponding maximum number of HARQ processes. According to certain embodiments the relationship between the HARQ RTT timer and maximum number of HARQ processes are given by 2 HARQ RTT Timer 7 .

Example 1 is a MTC device configured to communicate through a LTE network that includes a wireless transceiver a soft buffer and a signal processing unit. The wireless transceiver is configured to receive a signal through the LTE network. The soft buffer is configured to store a plurality of soft channel bits for up to a maximum number of HARQ processes. The signal processing unit is configured to determine a total number of soft channel bits based on the maximum number of HARQ processes a subblock interleave size a coding rate and a number of code blocks and to store with LBRM a reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits in the soft buffer.

In Example 3 the soft buffer of any of Examples 1 2 is sized to store only the reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits.

In Example 4 the MTC device of any of Examples 1 3 is defined in the LTE network within a UE category corresponding to 25344 total number of soft channel bits for downlink communication with an eNB and wherein the reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits includes 12672 bits.

In Example 6 the signal processor of any of Examples 1 5 determines the total number of soft channel bits based on a reduced maximum number of HARQ processes for HD FDD.

In Example 7 the reduced maximum number of HARQ processes of Example 6 includes four HARQ processes and the reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits includes 6336 bits.

In Example 8 the reduced maximum number of HARQ processes of any of Examples 6 7 includes three HARQ processes and the reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits includes 4752 bits.

In Example 9 the signal processor of any of Examples 1 8 determines the total number of soft channel bits based on a reduced maximum number of HARQ processes and wherein the reduced maximum number of HARQ processes is based on a HARQ RTT timer.

Example 10 is a method that includes receiving a signal corresponding to a MTC device. The method includes demodulating the signal to generate a plurality of received LLRs corresponding to a transport block. The method include combining the received LLRs with a limited number of stored LLRs for the transport block from a previous signal. The method includes decoding the combined LLRs and performing a cyclic redundancy check to determine that the decoding failed. The method includes in response to determining that the decoding failed performing limited buffer rate matching to store only a limited number of the combined LLRs in a soft buffer and requesting transmission of at least one additional signal corresponding to the transport block.

In Example 11 performing the limited buffer rate matching in Example 10 includes storing half of the combined LLRs in the soft buffer.

In Example 12 the MTC device of any of Examples 10 11 includes a low cost MTC device configured to communicate through a LTE network.

In Example 14 the requesting transmission of the at least one additional signal corresponding to the transport block of any of Examples 10 13 is part of a HARQ process and wherein the method further comprises reducing a maximum number of HARQ processes for the transport block based on using HD FDD communication with a network node.

In Example 15 the requesting transmission of the at least one additional signal corresponding to the transport block of any of Examples 10 14 is part of a HARQ process and wherein the method further comprises reducing a maximum number of HARQ processes for the transport block based on a HARQ RTT timer value.

Example 17 is a machine readable storage including machine readable instructions to implement a method or realize an apparatus as in any of Examples 10 16.

Example 18 is an apparatus that includes processing logic configured to perform a method as in any of Examples 10 15.

Example 19 is a method for communicating through a LTE network. The method includes receiving a signal through the LTE network and storing a plurality of soft channel bits for up to a maximum number of HARQ processes. The method includes determining a total number of soft channel bits based on the maximum number of HARQ processes a subblock interleave size a coding rate and a number of code blocks. The method includes storing with LBRM a reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits in the soft buffer.

Example 21 is a machine readable storage including machine readable instructions to implement a method or realize an apparatus as in any of Examples 19 20.

Example 22 is an apparatus that includes processing logic configured to perform a method as in Example 19.

Example 23 is a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium storing program code for causing one or more processors to perform a method. The method includes establishing a connection with an evolved Node B eNB in a long term evolution LTE network determining a maximum number of hybrid automatic retransmission request HARQ processes for full duplex frequency division duplexing with the eNB determining a reduced number of HARQ processes for half duplex frequency division duplexing with the eNB the number being less than the maximum number determining a total number of soft channel bits based on the reduced number of HARQ processes and storing a reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits in a soft buffer.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of Example 23 wherein storing the reduced number of the total number of the soft channel bits comprises performing limited buffer rate matching.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 23 24 wherein the reduced number of the total number of the soft channel bits comprises half of the total number of soft channel bits.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 23 25 wherein the soft buffer is sized to store only the reduced number of the total number of soft channel bits.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 23 26 wherein the method further comprises configuring a user equipment UE as a machine type communication device for half duplex frequency division duplexing with the eNB.

Various techniques disclosed herein or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more modules or components which are terms used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module or component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module or component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules or components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module or component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the module or component and achieve the stated purpose for the module or component.

Indeed a module or component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules or components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules or components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

It will be understood by those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

