---

title: Context based dynamically switching device configuration
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for dynamically switching device configuration based upon context are described herein. In an aspect, the method includes reading a tag attached to an entry gate of a restricted area through a device. Upon reading the tag, an application is executed to connect the device to a mobile device management (MDM) server. Upon establishing the connection, the restricted area identifier (ID) is sent to the MDM server. The device receives one or more policies applicable for the restricted area from the MDM server. The received one or more policies are executed on the device to change the device configuration. After execution, the device sends a confirmation message to the MDM server to indicate that the device is policy complaint. Upon receiving the confirmation, the MDM server instructs to open the entry gate to allow the device within the restricted area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609022&OS=09609022&RS=09609022
owner: SYBASE, INC.
number: 09609022
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141210
---
Device configuration refers to activated and or deactivated features of a device. The features include but are not limited to camera internet connectivity sound recorder radio etc. The device configuration may be required to be changed based upon the context such as geographical location temperature etc. For example the device configuration may be required to be changed for a restricted area such as a server room of an organization. Usually the device configuration is verified or changed manually e.g. by a security guard. The security guard may e.g. put sticker on a camera of the device or might keep the device with him based upon the security policy of the restricted area. The manual verification or re configuration of the device might be costly time consuming and prone to human errors.

Embodiments of techniques for context based dynamically switching device configuration are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

 Device refers to a logical and or a physical unit adapted for a specific purpose. For example a device may be at least one of a mechanical and an electronic unit. Device encompasses but is not limited to a communication device a computing device a handheld device and a mobile device such as an enterprise digital assistant EDA a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a smartphone and the like. A device can perform one or more tasks. The device can access internet services such as World Wide Web www or electronic mails E mails and exchange information with another device or a server by using wired or wireless technologies e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi Universal Serial Bus USB infrared and the like.

 Device configuration refers to activated features of a device. Device features include but are not limited to camera internet connectivity sound recorder radio etc. The device configuration determines the functional behavior of the device. The device configuration may be changed or switched by activating or deactivating one or more device features. The device configuration may be required to be changed based upon area specific policy rules specified for an area where the device is positioned.

 Contextual information or context based information refers to information in context of device configuration. The contextual information can be geographic such as location or it can be environmental such as temperature variation etc. Change in contextual information can influence change in configuration of the device or access given to the user. Different area specific policies or rules may be defined for configuring the device or changing its configuration based upon the contextual information. 

 Restricted area refers to an area in which security or restrictive measures are employed to prevent unauthorized entry. For example a server room within an organization may be a restricted area. An area specific policy may be specified for a corresponding restricted area. For example the area specific policy may be to switch off device camera and radio within the server room. The area may be secured or restricted using an access controller at an entry point of the area.

 Access controller refers to a physical barrier such as a lock and or an indicative barrier such as an audio siren that raises an alarm when a user enters the restricted area. In various embodiments the access controller may refer to an imaginary boundary for example a geo fence surrounding the restricted area such that a device has a signal drop when a user enters the boundaries of the restricted area demarcated by the access controller.

 Tag refers to a label attached to an entity for purpose of identification. A tag may be attached to an entry point of a restricted area. For example the tag may be attached to an access controller or a lock of the entry point of the restricted area. In an embodiment the tag may be any physical object such as a chip a sticker etc. For example the tag may be one of a near field communication NFC tag a bar code a matrix barcode or two dimensional bar code a quick response QR code a radio frequency identification RFID tag etc. The tag is for the purpose of identification of the restricted area. The tag may be configurable and may store information and or instruction configured by a user. For example the tag includes information such as a name identifier ID of the area restricted by the access controller e.g. lock . The tag may also include a command for performing some task. For example the tag might include a command to instruct the device to install or download an application from cloud or execute the application.

 Tag reader refers to a physical and or a logical unit which can read information and instruction from a tag. For example a tag reader may be a sensor which can read information from a bar code tag . The tag reader is an intermediary between the tag and the device. The tag reader provides or sends the information or command read from the tag to the device or operating system OS of the device. The device or the OS of the device can perform operation s based upon the received information and or command. There are different types of tag readers corresponding to different types of tags. For example the tag readers such as sensors may include NFC reader a bar code reader a QR reader an RFID reader etc.

Tag is attached to the access controller . The tag may be configurable and may be preconfigured by an administrator with information corresponding to the restricted area which is secured by the tag access controller. For example the tag may include information such as a name or an identifier ID of the restricted area . The tag may also be configured to include a command or instruction. The tag can be read by tag reader . In an embodiment reading a tag refers to reading the information and instructions included within the tag. The tag reader may be installed or downloaded on the device . When a user carrying the device swipes the device at the entry point the tag reader reads the tag .

For example the tag reader reads the restricted area identifier ID and a command for downloading and or launching an application. The tag reader sends the information e.g. area ID and the command to operating system OS of the device . The OS of the device executes the command. The command may be e.g. to execute an application to get connected communicatively coupled to the MDM server . Once the command is executed by the OS the device gets connected to the MDM server . Upon connection the device sends information e.g. restricted area ID to the MDM server . The MDM server identifies the restricted area through the received restricted area ID. Upon identifying the restricted area the MDM server retrieves one or more area specific policies predefined for the restricted area . The area specific policies include rules for defining the configuration s of the device to allow the device to access the restricted area.

The MDM server sends the area specific policies related to the restricted area to the device . Based upon the received area specific policies the OS reconfigures the device . Once the reconfiguration is done e.g. device internet connectivity is switched off and device camera is disabled the device sends a confirmation message to the MDM server . The confirmation message indicates that the area specific policies are applied on the device and the device is complaint with the restrictions. Upon receiving the confirmation message the MDM server sends instruction to open the access controller to allow the user to access the restricted area along with the device .

The user may be an employee of an organization. The user is registered and is assigned an identifier ID . In an embodiment a user database e.g. an active directory may be maintained by the organization where the information related to the registered users of the organization is stored. The user database may include information such as name age designation. ID etc. of the users. In an embodiment the user database may also be stored as MDM database. The user database is accessible by the MDM server.

The user may be required to enroll or register his or hers device s e.g. a smartphone owned or carried by the user. A device is registered or enrolled with the MDM server. For registration the information to uniquely identify the device is provided to the MDM server. For example when the device is a smart phone an international mobile station equipment identity IMEI number and or a unique device identifier UDID number is provided to the MDM server. In an embodiment the information may be automatically retrieved from the device e.g. from the OS of the device. The MDM server may automatically retrieve the information from the OS of the device once the device is connected to the MDM server. In an embodiment the OS itself provides the information to the MDM server. For example when the device is a smartphone the OS of the smartphone provides the IMEI and or the UDID number of the smartphone to the MDM server. In an embodiment the information may be provided by the user owning the device. In an embodiment various other information related to the device may also be sent to the MDM server.

The MDM server stores the registered device information in the device database . The device database may also include a field to indicate the user owing the device. In an embodiment the MDM server includes the user database e.g. active directory to store information of users such as employees of an organization. In an embodiment the user database may be maintained by its corresponding organization. The MDM server can access the user database. In an embodiment the user database may also include a field referring to another database e.g. device database of that stores information of the devices owned by the user. In an embodiment the device database stores information related to the registered device and identification of the user e.g. name or ID of the user owing the corresponding registered device. The area specific policy related to any area can be executed on the registered device. The area specific policy includes one or more rules for changing the configuration of the device to make the device complaint to access the restricted area.

The MDM server maintains a policy database to store area specific policies corresponding to one or more accessible areas e.g. secured or restricted areas . The area specific policy refers to one or more rules that has to be complied for entering the accessible area. The area may be uniquely identified by their unique ID and or name. An exemplarily policy database table to store one or more area specific policies corresponding to the respective areas e.g. area A area A may be shown below as TABLE 1 

In an embodiment the area specific policies for areas are configured by a user e.g. an administrator.

In an embodiment the policy database may also include other information related to the areas and policies such as an in charge of the area etc. In an embodiment there may be another database storing possible sets of rules configured corresponding to respective policy. An identifier ID may be assigned to respective area specific policy. An exemplarily database table to store the sets of rules corresponding to respective policy may be shown below as TABLE 2 

The administrator may select the policy from the database table e.g. TABLE 2 shown above for the corresponding areas. In an embodiment the administrator can also define new policy or edit old policy for an area. There can be several other formats or ways for storing area specific security policies. An exemplarily database table to store the selected policy corresponding to respective area may be shown below as TABLE 3 

As shown in TABLE 3 for area A the applicable policies are P and P to allow the device in the area A when the features of the device are disabled it may be a substitute for submitting the device at security for confidential labs or meetings and the user is authenticated e.g. by inquiring the name and ID number of the user to allow only the selected users to enter the area A . For area A the selected policy is P to allow the device in the area A when the device camera is off and device recorder is on e.g. to automatically record the meeting . Similarly for area A the selected policy is P to allow device in the area A when the device internet connectivity is off and the device is in silent mode e.g. to avoid disturbance in any urgent meeting . For area A the selected policy is P to allow the device in the area A when device Wi Fi is off device camera is off and the device recorder is off e.g. to disable recording of confidential meeting .

In an embodiment the area specific policies for the restricted area may be different for different users. For example the area specific policies for the restricted area may be different for a security head. In an embodiment the area specific policies are predefined for the restricted area based upon user profile e.g. user s designation age marital status etc. . For example for the same restricted area different area specific policies may be defined for different user s group such as managers team leaders etc. An exemplarily database table to store the policy corresponding to respective area based upon different user groups may be shown below as TABLE 4 

As shown in TABLE 4 for area A the applicable policy is P when the area A is accessed by the user belonging to the group G the applicable policy is P when the area A is accessed by the user belonging to the group G and the applicable policy is P when the area A is accessed by the user belonging to the group G. Similarly for the area A the applicable policy is P when the area A is accessed by the user belonging to the group G.

The area is secured and can be accessed upon complying with the area specific policies applicable for the area. For example the restricted area can be accessed upon complying with the policy e.g. policy P configured for the restricted area . The area has the entry point through which the area is accessible. The tag may be attached to the entry point e.g. a security gate of the area. The area may be secured or restricted using the access controller e.g. lock at the entry point of the area. For example the restricted area is secured by using the access controller at the entry of the restricted area . The tag e.g. tag is attached to the access controller e.g. the access controller . The tag can be any acceptable tag known in art such as NFC tag QR code bar code RFID tag etc. The tag e.g. tag is configurable and the administrator preconfigures the tag with information ID or name of the restricted area secured by the tag. The tag can also include instructions or comments. For example the tag might include a command to execute an application such as a MDM application to connect to the MDM server. The tag i.e. the information and instructions on the tag can be read by a corresponding tag reader e.g. the tag reader . In an embodiment the tag such as NFC tag. QR code bar code RFID tag etc. has their respective tag reader that can read these tags.

Based upon the type of tag used in an organization the users may be required to install or download corresponding tag reader on their registered device e.g. when the tag reader is not available on the device by default . In an embodiment upon registering the device the MDM server automatically installs appropriate tag reader on the device. In an embodiment upon successful registration of the device the administrator installs the appropriate tag reader on the device. In an embodiment the device may be pre packaged with one or more available tag readers such as NFC reader bar code reader RFID reader etc. The tag reader e.g. tag reader of can read the corresponding tag e.g. tag of . In an embodiment reading the tag refers to reading the information and instruction stored within the tag.

When the device gets near the access controller e.g. the device is swiped at the security gate or the access controller the tag reader within the device reads the tag . For example the tag reader reads the area ID from the tag and reads the command from the tag . The command may be to execute the application e.g. SAP Afaria on the device to get connected to the MDM server . In an embodiment the tag reader sends the information e.g. area ID and the command to the OS of the device . The OS executes the command e.g. runs the application to get connected to the MDM server .

Once the device gets connected or communicatively coupled to the MDM server the OS of the device sends the area ID to the MDM server . In an embodiment the OS of the device sends device ID to the MDM server . The MDM server authenticates the device using the device ID to determine if the device is registered enrolled. In an embodiment the MDM server retrieves information related to the device from the OS of the device and based upon the retrieved device information determines whether the device is the registered device e.g. by mapping the device information in the device database . Upon successful authentication the MDM server retrieves area specific policy e.g. P corresponding to the area ID. The area specific policy corresponding to the area ID is sent to the device or the OS of the device . The OS of the device executes the area specific policy e.g. switching off device camera on the device . When the area specific policy is executed on the device the configuration of the device is changed or switched to make the device complaint with the area specific policy. The OS sends the confirmation message to the MDM server that the area specific policy is executed on the device and the device is complaint with the area specific policy to access the restricted area .

In an embodiment before authenticating the device the MDM server authenticates the user. The MDM server may inquire the user about its ID and name through the application. The MDM server determines whether the user is authenticated or registered user by mapping the received user ID and name with the user database e.g. active directory . When the user authentication is unsuccessful the MDM server sends the error message that the user is unauthorized and cannot access the area. The error message may be displayed on the device. The MDM server also instructs the access controller e.g. lock to be closed. In an embodiment when the authentication is unsuccessful for a predefined number of times e.g. 4 times for a user the MDM server reports the administrator that some unauthorized user tried entering the area area ID 4 times. The number of times may be predefined or configured by the administrator. In an embodiment when the user authentication is successful the user may be allowed to enter the area. The user attendance and movement can be tracked maintained. Further the user need not carry separate ID card for authentication attendance or entry rather through its device itself the user can be authenticated and allowed within the premise.

In an embodiment when the user authentication is successful the MDM server authenticates the device based upon the device information received from the OS of the device . When the device is authenticated the MDM server retrieves area specific policy applicable to the area ID e.g. corresponding to the restricted area received from the device . The area specific policy is retrieved from the policy database. The MDM server sends the retrieved area specific policy to the OS of the device . In an embodiment prior to sending the retrieved area specific policy the MDM server checks a profile of the user e.g. user s designation carrying the device and changes or edits the retrieved area specific policy based upon the user profile. The edited area specific policy is then sent to the OS of the device . In an embodiment the area specific policy is retrieved from the database that stores the area specific policy corresponding to the restricted area and or user s profile e.g. the database or TABLE 4 shown above . The OS executes the area specific policy on the device and sends the confirmation message to the MDM server that the area specific policy is executed and the device is now compliant with the area specific policy. Upon receiving the confirmation message the MDM server directly instruct the access controller to get opened and the user can enter the restricted area along with the device . In an embodiment as shown in the MDM server is communicatively coupled to a security unit which is responsible for controlling e.g. opening closing the access controller . In an embodiment the security unit may be a separate unit positioned outside the MDM server such as a security unit within an organization. In an embodiment the security unit may be a part of the MDM server . The security unit is instructed by the MDM server to open the access controller and the security unit opens the access controller to allow the user enter the restricted area along with the device .

In an embodiment when the user tries to come out of the restricted area the user flashes or swipes the device at the entry or exit gate to open the gate from inside. Upon swiping the device from inside the user and device authentication is not required again as it is already authenticated. The access controller at the exit or entry gate is instructed to get open by the security unit . The security unit stores the device ID e.g. when the user enters the area along with the device the device ID is stored by the security unit and when the device is swiped from inside the security unit identifies the device and instruct the access controller to get opened. In an embodiment the access controller at the exit or entry gate is instructed to get open by the MDM server . In an embodiment the access controller is instructed e.g. by the security unit or the MDM server to get opened whenever the device is swiped from inside.

In an embodiment once the exit gate is opened and the user is out the device configuration is reverted back to the original configuration. In an embodiment the application e.g. SAP Afaria stores the modified device configuration locally on a local device database and once the user is out of the restricted area the application instruct the OS of the device to revert to the original configuration or call off withdraw the modified configuration. Therefore without connecting to the MDM server the device configuration can be reverted to the original configuration once the user is out of the restricted area. In an embodiment the MDM server instructs the OS of the device to revert to the original configuration once the user is out of the restricted area.

The embodiments enable to determine whether the user attended meetings organized in the restricted area e.g. restricted area and how many times user attended the respective meeting. The device and user movement can be tracked. shows a tracking unit which tracks registered devices e.g. device D device DN and registered users e.g. user U user UN . In an embodiment the tracking unit may be a tracking server. The tracking unit may be a part of the MDM server or may be a separate unit positioned outside the MDM server . The tracking unit is communicatively coupled to the MDM server . The tracking unit inquires the MDM server to determine the registered users and devices and then keeps tracking the registered devices and users. In an embodiment the administrator may provide ID of the users and devices that has to be tracked and the tracking unit tracks the requested users and devices. The tracking unit records or stores the tracking information related to the users and devices in a tracking database . In an embodiment there may be separate databases for user tracking and device tracking. The tracking database may include columns such as user device ID area ID time stamp and IN OUT to store tracking information. An exemplarily tracking database table to store the tracking information may be shown below as TABLE 5 

The tracking information may be provided to the administrator. For example the tracking information related to the device D may be provided as D 12 12 2003 20 00 PM A 13 12 2003 10 00 AM A . There may be various different formats and ways for representing or maintaining the tracking information. In an embodiment the application on the device itself tracks the movement of the device and records the tracking information. The application stores the tracking information locally on a device local database and uploads the tracking information onto the tracking unit or the MDM server at a predefined scheduled time. The predefined scheduled time is configured by the user e.g. the administrator. When the tracking information is uploaded to the MDM server the MDM server communicates the uploaded tracking information to the tracking unit . In an embodiment the tracking information is uploaded whenever network connectivity with the MDM server or the tracking unit is available and the device is sufficiently charged. Therefore the device can also be monitored or tracked without network connectivity with the MDM server or the tracking unit . The tracking unit stores the received tracking information in the tracking database . In an embodiment the tracking unit may be configured to clear tracking information from the tracking database after a predefined time interval. The predefined time interval may be configured e.g. by the administrator.

In an embodiment if the device is authenticated and the policies are applied on the device e.g. for the restricted area the area ID and the area specific policies related to the area are cached from the MDM server and stored on the device local database. The administrator might configure a policy such that if the device is authenticated and complaint for entering the restricted area once the device can enter the restricted area for a predefined time interval without authentication i.e. without connecting to the MDM server . The user device access right is persistent for the predefined time interval. Therefore the access to the restricted area becomes faster. The area specific policies are cached on the device e.g. stored in device local database and are executed on the device whenever the device enters the restricted area within the predefined time interval. Therefore the device can enter the restricted area without being connected to the MDM server .

The application on the device reads the cached securities policies from the device local database and instructs the OS of the device to apply the area specific policies on the device while entering the restricted area . Therefore connectivity with the MDM server may not be required every time. In case the policy related to the restricted area is violated the application sends an alert to the MDM server and or to the administrator that the policy related to the area is violated breached. Upon receiving the alert the MDM server and or the administrator can take necessary action e.g. block the user from entering leaving the area.

In an embodiment the area specific policy may be cached for a predefined time period configured by the administrator e.g. 9 hours or office hours etc. In an embodiment in case the policy related to the restricted area gets changed edited then the MDM server notifies to a notification server not shown and the notification server notifies the application device that the cached area specific policies are invalidated or edited. Once the device receives the notification the cached area specific policies are invalidated and the device gets connected to the MDM server for authentication to enter the restricted area .

In case the device includes the tag reader the tag reader reads the tag and the device gets connected to the MDM server . The MDM server retrieves the device information such as device ID and other details from the OS of the device and stores the retrieved information in a visitor database not shown . The visitor database includes information such as the time visitor entered the restricted area visitor s device details if the visitor is carrying the device etc. Therefore the visitor can be tracked. In an embodiment the MDM server sends the policies applicable for the restricted area e.g. camera off recorder off etc. to the device . The OS of the device executes the received area specific policies on the device . Once the area specific policies are executed the device informs the MDM server to open the entry gate . The MDM server opens the entry gate and the visitor can enter the restricted area . As there is a time limited access or predefined time e.g. 30 minutes from the time visitor entered the restricted area the area specific policy may be predefined to beep an alarm on the visitor s device once the predefined time is lapsed. In an embodiment when the predefined time is lapsed an administrator e.g. jailer is informed by the MDM server .

At one or more area specific policies related to the restricted area are received from the MDM server. In an embodiment the server stores preconfigured area specific polices related to one or more restricted areas. In an embodiment the area specific policies can be reconfigured or edited by a user. e.g. an administrator. At the received one or more area specific policies are applied or executed on the device to change the device configuration based on the received one or more area specific policies. For example the device camera may be switched off the device recorder may be switched on etc. At a confirmation message is sent to the MDM server to indicate that the device configuration is changed based on the received one or more area specific policies to allow the device enter the restricted area. Upon receiving the confirmation message the MDM server sends instruction to open the entry gate to allow the device within the restricted area. In an embodiment the MDM server directly sends signal to open the entry gate. In an embodiment the MDM server may instruct the security unit e.g. security unit within an organization to open the entry gate.

Embodiments enable to automatically and dynamically change the device configuration based upon the area specific security policy of an area before allowing the device within the area. The securities policy may be just related to authentication and in that case the user and or device are just authenticated before allowing the user device within the area without configuring or re configuring the device. Therefore the user may not need to carry a separate ID card for attendance or entry rather the device itself acts like an ID card. The security mechanism is automated and security guards may not be separately required for corresponding areas which saves cost and is free of manual error s . The embodiments also help to track the movement of the authorized user device. The tracking information may be reported to the administrator. In an embodiment when the authentication fails for a predefined number of times e.g. 4 times the administrator is informed that some unauthorized user tried entering the area 4time.

The area specific policy related to an area is automatically and dynamically executed on the authenticated device to allow the device within the area. The policy corresponding to areas may be easily configured or edited by the administrator. In case the policy is not to allow any device within a confidential lab or meeting the device is automatically disabled and the user can therefore still carry the device as the device is non functional. Therefore the user is not required to submit deposit its device anywhere e.g. at security which might be insecure and non reliable. The time restricted policy can be configured for the restricted area to allow visitors to enter the area for a specified time interval. When the specified time is lapsed an alarm may be blown or trigged on the user s e.g. visitor s device and the administration is informed about the time lapse as well. In some area e.g. museum and expos the authentication part may be ignored and just the area specific policies may be executed or applied on the device to let the device enter the area.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium includes a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium includes physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. A computer readable storage medium may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic indicator devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. an enterprise resource planning ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the one or more embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the embodiment are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the one or more embodiments is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

