---

title: System, method, and computer-readable medium for user equipment decision-making criteria for connectivity and handover
abstract: A method of selecting a network from a plurality of available access networks is provided. The method includes identifying, by using a wireless user equipment, the plurality of access networks and identifying, by using a wireless user equipment, an invoked application. The method includes selecting, by using a wireless user equipment, a first access network from the plurality of access networks based, at least in part, on the application. A connection is established to the first access network in response to an application requirement. A handover procedure is invoked from the first access network to a second access network of the plurality of access networks in response to application requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648557&OS=09648557&RS=09648557
owner: Seven Networks, LLC
number: 09648557
owner_city: Marshall
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141004
---
This patent application claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 863 931 filed Nov. 1 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The following applications also claim priority to the above referenced provisional application and are related to the present application. They are incorporated by reference herein.

Copending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 929 066 filed on Oct. 30 2007 and entitled System Method and Computer Readable Medium for Selecting a Network for Connectivity and Handover Based on Application Requirements 

Copending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 929 376 filed on Oct. 30 2007 and entitled System Method and Computer Readable Medium for User Equipment Managing Multiple Radio Networks for Handover and Low Power Operations 

IP multimedia subsystem IMS is a standardized architecture for provisioning of mobile and fixed multimedia systems. IMS provides for the transformation of the core wireless network architecture for efficient and cost effective delivery of advanced multimedia services. Though driven by the 3.sup.rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP IMS is designed to be access agnostic i.e. it enables access to advanced services via GSM W CDMA CDMA2000 WiFi and other wireless broadband technologies like WiMAX as well as fixed broadband systems. IMS aims to create a converged Internet Protocol IP infrastructure that allows key network resources to be shared by a wide range of services. IMS uses a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP scheme based on the standardized implementation of the session initiation protocol SIP . The IMS standards define a network domain dedicated to the control and integration of multimedia services.

Without IMS operators are forced to allocate dedicated components to each and every service that is deployed. Such service implementations are not scalable and are highly inefficient in a world in which users are demanding more personalized services and greater flexibility as regards to for example mixing and matching offerings. IMS also makes it possible for users to access multiple services in the course of the same call or session. Moreover IMS enables operators to establish and control quality of service imperatives for individual services while at the same time protecting the overall integrity of network performance. IMS will significantly improve end user experience by enabling flexible personalized and seamless communications across access standards. A multi mode multi radio user equipment is capable of obtaining services through multiple radio networks for example via a wireless wide area network WWAN such as GSM UMTS and via a wireless local area network WLAN such as 802.11a b g.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. In addition the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various examples. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various embodiments and or configurations discussed.

In accordance with an embodiment a user equipment must decide on a particular network with which to attach begin active services and to which network it must handover its active services. For example if the coverage of GSM UMTS is poor in an office building but the coverage of WLAN is good the user equipment may choose to attach to the WLAN and also to receive incoming voice calls via the WLAN. In such a circumstance the criteria used by the user equipment may be call quality and potential call quality. In a case where the user equipment chooses the GSM UMTS network to attach and make outgoing calls the criteria used by the user equipment may be power consumption and potential power consumption.

Some of the other criteria used by the user equipment may be a user profile that specifies one or more user preference connectivity attributes available applications of the user equipment a service subscription of a user associated with the user equipment a battery monitor of the user equipment a respective link metrics indicator for each of the plurality of access networks and application support capabilities of the plurality of access networks as described more fully hereinbelow.

Various terminals may connect with one or more of the access networks. As referred to herein a user equipment UE comprises a terminal or station that may connect with one or more access networks for establishing a session with an entity of system or another user equipment or terminal connected with one or more of the access networks of system or another telecommunication system. In the depicted example UE is connected with WLAN UE is connected with packet UMTS and UE is connected with circuit UMTS . Additionally an analog endpoint such as an analog telephone is connected with PSTN . Some UEs may be adapted to connect in some instances concurrently with multiple access networks. A UE adapted to connect with multiple access networks is referred to herein as a multi mode UE or device.

IMS may include various functions nodes or other entities and those depicted in are illustrated to facilitate an understanding of embodiments disclosed herein. Call Session Control Function CSCF may act as Proxy CSCF P CSCF Serving CSCF S CSCF or Interrogating CSCF I CSCF .

SIP may be used as the protocol for communications between a UE with CSCF . A Media Gateway Control Function MGCF controls the parts of the call state that pertain to connection control for media channels in an IMS media gateway MGW e.g. MGW . MGCF may communicate with CSCF a breakout gateway control function BGCF e.g. a SIP server that includes routing functionality based on telephone numbers and PSTN entities. Additionally MGCF may determine the next hop depending on the routing number for incoming calls from legacy networks. MGCF may include or interface with a media gateway controller MGC and a signaling gateway .

IMS MGW may terminate bearer channels from a circuit switched network e.g. PSTN and media streams e.g. RTP streams in an IP network from a packet network e.g. packet UMTS . IMS MGW may support media conversion bearer control and payload processing e.g. codec echo canceller conference bridging and the like. IMS MGW may interact with MGCF for resource control own and handle resources such as echo cancellers etc and may be equipped with codecs.

A Multimedia Resource Function Controller MRFC may control media stream resources in a Multimedia Resource Function Processor MRFP interpret information coming from an application server AS and S CSCF e.g. a session identifier and control MRFP accordingly.

MRFP may control IP bearers provide resources to be controlled by MRFC mix incoming media streams e.g. for multiple parties sources media streams for multimedia announcements and process media streams e.g. audio transcoding media analysis and the like and perform floor control i.e. manage access rights to shared resources in a conferencing environment.

Application Server e.g. a SIP Application Server OSA Application Server CAMEL IM SSF application server or other application server may offer value added services to system and reside either in the user s home network or in a third party location. The third party could be a network or simply a stand alone AS. Application Server may influence and impact a SIP session on behalf of the services supported by the operator s network. An AS may host and execute services.

IMS functioning is access network agnostic. However the connectivity of each access network to the IMS infrastructure is specific to the access network.

Voice Call Continuity VCC from circuit UMTS to IMS VoIP over IMS is being specified in 3GPP. Two logical functions a Call Continuity Control Function CCCF and Network Domain Selection NeDS are added to the architecture to support VCC.

The Call Continuity Control Function provides for reception and processing of call continuity requests caused by radio related events e.g. availability or loss of radio coverage and establishment and release of call legs needed to transfer a voice call from the CS domain to the IMS domain or vice versa.

Network Domain Selection NeDS comprises the control point for selecting which domain to use for terminating a call. Normally it may be expected that a CS terminating call will terminate on the CS side of a multi mode terminal and an IMS terminating call will terminate on the IMS side of a multi mode terminal although there are situations where the selection of the other domain is appropriate e.g. in the case of a CS terminating call when the terminal is not CS attached but is IMS registered. In addition to technical considerations user preferences and service availability considerations may be considered and may be implemented in the NeDS function. The UE may be registered to both domains and may choose to originate a voice call or session via either CS or IMS domain depending on operator offered choices.

A UE facing an infrastructure such as the one depicted in faces a variety of challenges ranging from supporting several new applications enabled by IMS protocols required by those services such as SIP SDP RTP etc. and handheld devices with multiple radios.

Exemplary applications and services that may be supported by IMS include web browsing video sharing video telephony and conferencing push to talk over cellular presence services instant messaging multiplayer games and concurrent IMS services and CS voice services.

With smart phones being adapted with more and more features of PDAs and PCs the software component of the phone is gaining precedence over radio hardware that was the focus of 2.5G generation GSM GPRS IS 95 phones. A high level OS e.g. Microsoft Linux Symbian etc. is critical with an ever increasing number of software components to be integrated including IMS client frameworks new network and session management software e.g. SIP SDP and RTP RTCP and richer telephony interface layers.

For the specific case of multimode convergence based on IMS there are certain user scenarios that require management of the multiple access systems supported by the handset. Some of these scenarios include 

As IMS infrastructure and service deployment progresses handset vendors continue to face the same challenges that have been driving them over the past several years e.g. the capability to offer new services and features in the handset without increasing cost of the handset handset development cost and time to market the handset.

Converged or convergence terminals i.e. UEs compatible with IMS have in many ways already taken root. However while converged terminals have opened doors to the promise of multiple utility terminals many existing devices are still somewhat service specific. The best examples currently are the camera phone and RIM BlackBerry . Despite these current concerns and shortcomings converged devices provide the promise of reaching the goal of one device that holds functionality for all forms of communications computing music video games and personal efficiency.

To be suitably adapted to interface with various access networks a converged terminal may be adapted to multiple modems. To accommodate multi radio terminals for interfacing with multi access networks a converged terminal essentially needs multi access awareness. A multi radio device needs to be able to access different services through different access methods. Being able to access email via WLAN or GPRS from a smart phone playing a game over Bluetooth with a friend in the same room and then inviting a far away friend to join the game via 3G are examples of what activities are possible via IMS .

Management of handset resources is critical for a desirable user experience in IMS . Because of the variety of applications that may be run via IMS energy consumption can be expected to increase as additional applications and more processor intensive services are deployed. However improvements in battery capacity simply haven t kept pace with ever more powerful processors and other power consumers in the handset. Accordingly efficient management of power consumption mechanisms are provided by embodiments disclosed herein.

With the addition of new features and services handset development costs and time to market continue to be important factors in UE design. Modular designs that feature various sub systems that may be obtained from a variety of vendors may advantageously reduce handset development costs.

With reference now to an exemplary software configuration of a converged terminal is depicted. Various applications may be deployed in configuration . In the illustrative example applications include an Email application a browser application a VoIP application and a circuit switched application . Applications are bound to application layer e.g. via traditional sockets and ports as shown in . In the illustrative example application layer includes SIP SDP and RTC RTCP

SIP is an application layer protocol. Session Initiation Protocol SIP was developed and designed within the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . SIP is a request response signaling protocol for setting up and starting voice video and instant messaging communication sessions over the Internet.

SIP s essential communication function is aided by extensions and further protocols and standards. Two protocols commonly used are the Session Description Protocol SDP and Real time Transport protocol RTP .

RTP is used to carry session payload data such as real time multimedia data such as audio video and text. RTP encodes and splits the data into packets and transports such packets over the Internet. RTP is frequently used in streaming media systems as well as videoconferencing and push to talk systems making it the technical foundation of the Voice over IP industry. RTP may be used in conjunction with the RTP Control Protocol RTCP and it is built on top of the User Datagram Protocol UDP .

SDP describes and encodes capabilities of session participants. Such a description is then used to negotiate the characteristics of the session so that all devices can participate. Hence SIP SDP and RTP RTCP are necessary to implement an application such as a SIP based VoIP protocol.

Application layer may interface with lower layers of network stack . In the illustrative example network stack includes a transmission control protocol TCP and a user datagram protocol UDP transport layers an IP security IPSec layer and an IP network layer although other transport and network layers may be suitably substituted for those depicted.

Convergent terminals require the support of multiple protocol stacks and and multiple radios as shown in . The first impact is on the hardware that requires integration of the modem basebands onto the same system. In typical designs the basebands of the various modems are implemented on different chips. Additionally a converged device may feature the co existence and simultaneous activity of multiple radios. The multiple modems need to be able to communicate with upper layers typically IP via identifiers such as the UMTS PDP contexts illustratively designated with dashed lines shown in . Each primary PDP context is associated with a unique PDP address which includes the IP address and each secondary PDP context is associated with a primary context and helps support multiple QoS streams required by different applications supported in lower layers via different radio access bearers. Major cellular standards as well as emerging wireless broadband standards such as WiMax support well defined QoS classes. In the illustrative example configuration includes a first protocol stack adapted to accommodate UMTS access and includes a cellular radio interface a UMTS non access stratum and a UMTS access stratum . A second protocol stack adapted to accommodate wireless radio broadband access network may include a wireless broadband radio interface and a wireless broadband protocol stack e.g. a wireless broadband physical PHY layer media access control MAC layer security and CSL layers or the like.

Additionally a converged device may feature a High level OS HLOS such as Symbian Linux and Microsoft Windows Mobile. HLOS vendors or associated groups such as Mobilinux Open Framework are offering more integrated features in their software packages such as IPv6 2.5G and 3G radio interface layers and connectivity management software.

A profile of applications supported by the UE may be used for connectivity and handover decisions for example latency requirements bandwidth requirements qualitative quantitative . The available applications supported by each available access system may be considered for connectivity handover decisions. In accordance with embodiments an inter system connectivity and handover decision entity is disposed in the UE as are the connectivity and handover execution entities.

Is the current connectivity the best one based on information connected in the previous step and the input sources including the set of rules provided by the service provider user profile based on usage user profile based on service subscriptions and the profile of applications supported by the UE. If yes do nothing if no either automatically handover to a new access connectivity or notify the user and request a decision.

In accordance with embodiments disclosed herein a Convergence Manager CM provides connectivity management and among other services mobility across various network standards. The CM provides for multimode mobility management and multimode data plane management within the CM and facilitates cellular plus wireless broadband terminal convergence including service continuity and handoff between cellular and wireless broadband.

CM interfaces with multiple access entities such as 802.16 access entity . access entity and UMTS access entity . 802.16 access entity includes a physical PHY layer a media access and control MAC layer and a service specific convergence layer 802.11 entity includes a PHY layer MAC layer and management entities . UMTS entity includes a radio link controller RLC MAC PHY layer a radio resource control RRC layer UMTS Non Access stratum and radio interface . Access entities may be communicatively coupled with radio access interface that interfaces with upper layers such as a network stack and convergence manager . Network stack may include a network layer such as IP layer an IP security layer IPSec a transport layer such as user datagram protocol UDP layer or transmission control protocol TCP layer . Network stack and convergence manager may interface with an application layer via an application interface .

CM may support multimode network and cell selection. CM may be adapted to perform access network data collection including network scan and cell measurements optimized for low terminal power consumption. At power on as per mode settings CM may scan for wireless broadband and cellular coverage and decide the best network to camp on.

CM may feature operator and user customizable threshold and profiles. To this end CM may be adapted to receive as input a customizable set of operational thresholds such as signal strength power call quality etc. and user operator profiles rules for scan network selection handover etc. that will govern network selection and handover decisions between multiple access modes.

CM may be adapted to perform periodic and event driven evaluation of connections and handover decisions. CM may analyze the access data it collects from various protocol stacks e.g. protocol stacks included in 802.16 entity an 802.11 stack included in 802.11 entity and a UMTS stack included in a UMTS entity as well as to take into account the rules and profiles provided by the user or operators. Based on this information CM may make a connectivity or handover decision and communicate with the appropriate software entities for handover execution.

Entities may interface with radio access interface and network transport stack layers . Various applications may be deployed at application layer such as a SIP application an HTTP application a VoIP RTP application a circuit switched application such as a voice application and may be bound to lower stack layers via application interface . Other applications that may be included in converged device configuration may include an instant messaging IM application a presence application or any other suitable application that may be run by a user equipment.

CM may be adapted to provide feedback to a network operator and or end user. CM may provide feedback of results of its analysis of multimode access conditions and decisions to the operator and in certain cases to the user. For example operational feedback provided to the end user may be provided via the handset application UI .

CM may provide management of multiple access connections. To this end CM may allow and manage connections to multiple access networks simultaneously depending upon handset use cases supported. For example voice call via cellular services may be provided while email is downloading via WLAN.

CM may provide data session continuity. To this end CM may provide data session continuity as the user roams from coverage area of one mode to another if CM decides based on its thresholds rules profiles that it is appropriate to move the connection from one access mode to another.

CM may facilitate VoIP handover. For example CM may provide support for handover of VoIP calls from one access mode to another with the assumption that VoIP is supported over both cellular and wireless broadband access modes. Additionally CM may manage voice handover to from a packet switched access mode from to a circuit switched access mode.

CM may support Voice Call Continuity VCC . CM may support continuity of a voice call from cellular circuit switched domain to VoIP over IMS over wireless broadband as specified by 3GPP.

CM is preferably implemented to be compliant to all related 3GPP specifications e.g. IMS 3G WLAN VCC as well as aligned to the IEEE 802.21 Media Independent Handover.

CM may provide inter system data session continuity and voice handover between cellular and wireless broadband modes. CM preferably allows mobility across multiple modes with the decision to handover taken based on a variety of parameters that operators and end users preferences. The handover decision logic will be such that any ping pong effect is minimized and the decision is optimized to use the connection best suited for the service. CM may feature connection handover decisions that advantageously minimize handset power consumption provide a desired call quality as well as provide the user the most cost effective service at any time thereby enabling a richer user experience. Moreover CM may make context driven connection decisions. For example emergency calls may be initiated via the most robust connections available at any time.

CM may allow operators to customize the rules governing connection and handover decisions. For example an operator may decide that the UE must initiate all emergency calls via the cellular network or that if the UE is within a WLAN coverage area any web browsing session must be initiated via the WLAN network. This feature may be associated with a default set of rules for easy usage but may also give maximum configurability to operators based on the operators network design and business needs.

CM may facilitate multimode network scan to facilitate terminal based connectivity decisions. Additionally CM provides multimode mobility handling across wireless broadband and cellular simultaneous wireless broadband and cellular connection management power management of multimode activities e.g. smart network scan and measurement operator and user customizable rules for connectivity and roaming voice call continuity e.g. handover and data session continuity. End user benefits of CM include unified access convergence management for multi radio handsets access and application aware decisions of best or most desirable connectivity unified connectivity interface to network e.g. TCP IP and session management e.g. SIP SDP layers multimode mobility handling across WiBro WiMax Cellular WLAN or other access networks.

CM may be implemented as a group of software modules deployed on the UE that make decisions regarding what is the best or preferable access system for establishing connectivity to the wired cable DSL etc. or wireless WLAN WiMax cellular such as GSM GPRS CDMA UMTS etc. network infrastructure as well as when to handover the connectivity from one access system to another. Connectivity management and handover decisions may be made based on rules configured by the service provider s and or end user preferences a user profile based on expected usage user profile based on service subscriptions requirements of specific applications both circuit switched and packet switched environmental conditions such as signal strengths of each access network and user equipment power conditions.

In addition CM provides a transparent network layer to the upper layers. CM offers IP PDP context control including activation modification and de activation. In this way CM hides lower layer details both functional and implementation specific from the upper layers and provides a complete IP layer platform for the upper layers.

CM may include a link throughput monitor to measure the throughput of links between the host UE and access networks. CM may include a radio link monitor and selection state machine that facilitates evaluation of link metrics and access network selection. Additionally CM may include an IP PDP radio controller and a signal strength radio state monitor . A battery monitor may be included to monitor battery usage capacity of the host UE battery.

CM may include or interface with various application programming interfaces APIs . In the illustrative example CM includes an application API a CM profiles API a CM system services API a CM Radio Link API a CM transport layer API and a CM IP layer API

CM may manage AT commands to the mobile terminal MT interfaces between VCC applications and the MT register with cellular networks manage WLAN layer 1 L1 layer 2 L2 to be ready for communications monitor radio quality and inform VCC application s of radio quality status and trigger fast handover from to GSM W LAN.

CM Application API may feature an open close socket function used to open a socket with QoS parameters on a particular host IP. IP PDP activation is preferably made when the open command is made. For wireless broadband an open socket command may be made before IP is available. In this case an implicit IP activation procedure may take place.

CM Application API may feature an IP PDP activation modification function including one or more of an explicit activation modification function an implicit activation modification function and an automatic activation modification function. An explicit activation modification function is activated directly by upper layers while an implicit activation modification function is activated when a socket open request is made. An automatic activation modification function may provide an indirect activation by the upper layers that for example direct CM to activate the IP PDP with QoS appropriate for IMS activation when a new access network is detected.

A radio link state status request Indicator function may be used to check on the status of the radio link. For example PDP context information such as QoS IP address Radio link state PDP context state P S attached etc. may be obtained.

A radio link selection request Indicator function based on priority parameters or profiles may be used to query which radio link should be used for a particular application. The radio link selection request function may be application dependent because each application may have different criteria for radio link selection. Radio link selection priorities may be based on the default profile database or passed to the radio link selection request function as parameters. The Indicator can also be event triggered and can signal to the IMS services that a change of domain should be made for a certain application or for all applications. This request Indicator is serviced by the main decision maker that determines which applications should be mapped to which radio link and when.

Link event triggers may include upper layer trigger events such as time to register time to handover time to establish IP PDP context and link layer events such as link lost or weak link and manual switch events.

In accordance with another embodiment UE based inter access mode connectivity and handover decisions may be made by CM . Decisions may be made in a UE regarding what is the best access system for establishing connectivity to the wired cable DSL etc or wireless WLAN WiMax cellular such as GSM GPRS CDMA UMTS etc network infrastructure as well as when to handover the connectivity from one access system to another. This decision may be made based on rules configured by the service provider s user profile based on expected usage user profile based on service subscriptions requirements of specific applications both circuit switched and packet switched based and environmental conditions such as signal strengths of each network and user equipment power conditions.

Inter access mode connectivity and handover decisions may be made based on various sources of input information including a set of rules provided by the service provider user profile based on usage user profile based on service subscriptions profile of applications supported by the UE battery monitor in the UE signal strength indicator of each access system as seen by the UE and applications supported by the available access systems. A set of rules provided by the service provider may include for example a requirement to always make emergency calls via a cellular access network whenever a cellular access network is available a requirement for voice calls to always be made using VoIP over WLAN if WLAN connectivity is available and alternatively to use a cellular access network in the event that WLAN connectivity is not available. User profile based on usage rules may include for example prioritization of user concerns such as cost power consumption low latency for service start up low latency for receiving calls email IM data continuity of real time services sense of always connected for non real time services availability of emergency services and the like.

Rules based on user profile service subscriptions may evaluate whether single or multiple providers are associated with various available access systems.

A battery monitor in the UE may also be used for connectivity handover decisions. For example if a battery capacity falls below a particular threshold preference may be assigned to a lower power retirement access network. A signal strength indicator of each access system as seen by the UE may be based on network scanning and measurement. In an embodiment the connectivity and handover decisions are made by CM .

The UE may execute the following steps for connectivity handover when certain events occur. Exemplary events include 

User wants to start a certain application An action for this event is determining what the best access network for this application is and initiate connectivity based on analysis of all the sources of input information.

As described mechanisms are provided for choosing a network for connection and handover based on the application requirements of a multi mode multi radio user equipment. The selection of the network for connectivity and handover is based on one or more of the invoking of an application the invoking of a second application and the closing of an application.

The UE may execute the following steps for connectivity handover when certain events occur. Exemplary events include 

In this scenario no real time service is active at this point. The CM senses that the WLAN network is getting weak or possibly already out of service and services need to be transferred to Cellular.

In the selection to determine which radio network should be primary and which secondary the following exemplary parameters may be evaluated 

connectivity application priority emergency call real time service non real time service best effort etc. 

If power is an issue the WWAN or cellular network may be designated for preference for always on applications if cellular provides better standby time.

As described mechanisms providing for decision making criteria in a multi mode multi radio user equipment to choose which radio network to use for connectivity and handover are provided. Decision making depends on a number of different criteria a user profile that specifies one or more user preference connectivity attributes available applications of the user equipment a service subscription of a user associated with the user equipment a battery monitor of the user equipment a respective link metrics indicator for each of the plurality of access networks and application support capabilities of the plurality of access networks.

The illustrative block diagrams depict process steps or blocks that may represent modules segments or portions of code that include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Although the particular examples illustrate specific process steps or procedures many alternative implementations are possible and may be made by simple design choice. Some process steps may be executed in different order from the specific description herein based on for example considerations of function purpose conformance to standard legacy structure user interface design and the like.

Aspects of disclosed embodiments may be implemented in software hardware firmware or a combination thereof. The various elements of the system either individually or in combination may be implemented as a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a processing unit. Various steps of embodiments may be performed by a computer processor executing a program tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium to perform functions by operating on input and generating output. The computer readable medium may be for example a memory a transportable medium such as a compact disk a floppy disk or a diskette such that a computer program embodying the aspects of the present invention can be loaded onto a computer. The computer program is not limited to any particular embodiment and may for example be implemented in an operating system application program foreground or background process driver network stack or any combination thereof executing on a single computer processor or multiple computer processors. Additionally various steps of embodiments may provide one or more data structures generated produced received or otherwise implemented on a computer readable medium such as a memory.

Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described in detail those skilled in the art should understand that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example descriptions of a UE convergence manager have been provided in the context of a UE deployed in a network system featuring IMS. However such a network system is not necessary but rather advantages may be had by implementation of embodiments disclosed herein in any multi mode network system that features multiple access network technologies with or without IMS. Accordingly all such changes substitutions and alterations are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure as defined in the following claims.

