---

title: System and method for playing a music video game with a drum system game controller
abstract: A system and method for playing a multi-player music video game with a drum system video game controller is provided. In one embodiment, the invention relates to a method for providing a drum solo with a music based multi-player video game. In another embodiment, the invention relates to a system for providing analog input from one or more drum sensors used in game play associated with a music based multi-player video game. In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to a method for preventing interference between the one or more drum sensors. In one embodiment, the invention relates to a method for mapping digital information indicative of input to a video game controller in a first form to information in a second form, the second form conforming to a protocol for inputs to a video game console executing a music based multi-player video game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09452358&OS=09452358&RS=09452358
owner: Activision Publishing, Inc.
number: 09452358
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 616 870 filed Sep. 14 2012 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 103 703 filed Apr. 15 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 317 614 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to video games and more particularly to a system and method for playing a music video game with a drum system video game controller.

Video games provide a source of entertainment for many people. More specifically video games provide an interactive experience for a player an experience that can be both interesting and challenging. Video games may provide players the opportunity to engage in activities otherwise unavailable to them or activities which may except through the simplification provided by video games otherwise require extensive training or practice. Video games may also provide for increasing levels of difficulty allowing for growth of player capabilities.

Music based multi player video games utilizing simulated musical instruments are popular video games. Video game controllers used in such games may generally replicate the shape of a musical instrument allowing players the opportunity to more fully enmesh themselves in a music creation experience. Furthermore proficiency at playing simulated musical instruments in video game environments may be more easily achieved than becoming proficient at using real musical instruments. Therefore in many instances much of the joy associated with successfully playing a musical instrument may be experienced even if a player has not contributed years to practicing and mastering the craft.

The invention provides a system and method for playing a music video game with a drum system video game controller.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a music based video game system including a plurality of drums forming part of a video game controller the drums each including a sensor configured to detect a strike of a corresponding drum of the plurality of drums and to provide an analog signal indicative of the strike an analog to digital converter ADC coupled to the sensors the ADC configured to convert the analog signals into multi bit digital signals a game console configured to receive an input indicative of a song to play command display of instructions for user operation of the video game controller receive the multi bit digital signals and generate audio based on the multi bit digital signals the audio dependent on user compliance with the instructions for user operation.

In another embodiment the invention relates to a drum game controller for use with a music based multi player video game the drum game controller including a first sensor configured to provide a first signal indicative of a strike of a first drum the first signal having a first magnitude a second sensor configured to provide a second signal indicative of a strike of a second drum the second signal having a second magnitude and processing circuitry coupled to the first drum sensor and the second drum sensor the processing circuitry configured to ignore the second signal during a predetermined period of time after receiving the first signal.

In another aspect the invention relates to a music based video game system including a foot pedal for use as part of a drum game controller the system including at least one foot pedal including a base plate having a top surface and a bottom surface a sensor assembly having a sensor for detecting pressure applied to the at least one foot pedal and for generating an analog signal indicative of the pressure a pedal plate having a top surface for receiving the pressure and a bottom surface a hinge coupled to the base plate and the pedal plate and an actuating stop structure disposed on the bottom surface of the pedal plate the stop structure for contacting the sensor assembly and for resisting the pressure applied via the pedal plate and an analog to digital converter ADC coupled to the sensor the ADC configured to convert the analog signal into a multi bit digital signal a game console configured to receive an input indicative of a song to play command display of instructions for user operation of the drum game controller receive the multi bit digital signal and generate audio based on the multi bit digital signal and user compliance with the instructions for user operation.

In yet another aspect the invention relates to a method for providing digital information indicative of operation of a video game controller simulating a drum set to a video game console executing a music based multi player video game the method including receiving analog signals from input devices of the video game controller simulating the drum set converting the analog signals into an array of digital data each element of the array containing one byte of data indicative of each analog signal each one byte of data representing a MIDI velocity value mapping each element of the array to a format conforming to a protocol for inputs to the video game console and providing the mapped data to the video game console.

In still yet another aspect the invention relates to a drum system for mapping digital information indicative of input to a video game controller in a first form to information in a second form the second form conforming to a protocol for inputs to a video game console executing a music based multi player video game the system including at least one drum including a sensor configured to detect a strike of the at least one drum and to provide an analog signal indicative of the strike processing circuitry configured to convert the analog signal indicative of the strike into a multi bit digital signal store the digital signal in a memory convert the digital signal into a signal conforming to the protocol for inputs to the video game console and output the analog signal conforming to the protocol for inputs to the video game console via a console interface.

In another aspect the invention relates to a drum game controller having a collapsible support structure the drum system used with a music based multi player video game the drum game controller including at least one drum including a sensor configured to detect a strike of the at least one drum and to provide a signal indicative of the strike a collapsible support structure including a plurality of telescoping rods configured to be extended or retracted a plurality of release mechanisms configured to retain or release the telescoping rods and at least one drum platform supported at least in part by the telescoping rods the at least one drum platform configured to support the at least one drum and wherein the plurality of telescoping rods comprises two vertical telescoping rods configured to couple with the at least one drum platform a horizontal telescoping rod and two base telescoping rods and each of the plurality of telescoping rods is configured to be retained or released using one of the plurality of release mechanisms.

In yet another aspect the invention relates to a method for providing a drum solo mode with a music based multi player video game the method including suggesting at least one song having a drum solo portion displaying on a display images indicative of a venue including at least one drum and a drummer displaying on the display instructions for playing the at least one song on a game controller generating audio indicative of the song at a first volume at approximately a time when the drum solo portion is to be played changing the images indicative of the venue generating audio indicative of the song at a second volume where the second volume is lower than the first volume generating audio indicative of a crowd cheering and displaying images indicative of the crowd cheering receiving information indicative of drum play determining based on the information indicative of drum play a score and displaying the score.

The video game console receives signals from a drum system game controller . In the video game console also receives signals from a first guitar shaped video game controller a second guitar shaped video game controller and a third guitar video game controller . In some embodiments all or some of the guitar video game controllers are not included and in some embodiments other video game input devices for example a microphone DJ simulator or a keyboard input device may also be used. In other embodiments any combination of guitar shaped video game controllers and drum system game controllers or alternatively other compatible instrument shaped video game controllers may be used in conjunction with the music rhythm video game. The different video game controllers may transmit signals to or receive signals from the video game console via wired connections or through wireless communication as is the case in .

The video game console is coupled to the display via an audio video cable. As illustrated in the display is a television with a display screen and audio speakers. The display screen shows a screenshot of a scrolling sheet of user instruction symbols for a music rhythm video game. As illustrated the scrolling sheet provides instructions for for example playing the drums although in some embodiments instructions are displayed for each of a plurality of video game controllers. The screenshot also shows a score and a performance or ROCK meter. In one embodiment the rock meter can be thought of as displaying a current amount of energy remaining for the game player.

In the music rhythm video game embodiment of the video game console processes a sequence of inputs from each video game controller. The video game console can assign a simulated audio output for each input thereby generating an audio feature comprised of a sequence of audio outputs for example an audio track for a single instrument in the context of a song. A user operating a video game controller may control the generation of the audio feature by pressing or otherwise manipulating inputs on the video game controller. In a number of embodiments the video game console uses input received from the user only to raise or lower a volume of a currently playing song or track or a volume of a particular musical instrument used in the currently playing song or track.

In the processor communicates with each individual component via the bus to execute software instructions in conjunction with video game play. In operation the processor retrieves specific video game instructions from an external memory source inserted into the memory interface such as a video game CD ROM. The processor executes the video game instructions in accordance with additional program instructions stored in the main memory. The main memory may also be used to store data generated in association with the execution of the video game which may originate from the processor or other devices connected to the bus. Instructions associated with video game execution may include game play instructions configuration information information relating to video and audio outputs and instructions for processing user inputs received from video game controllers.

As seen in the processor is in data communication with a plurality of video game controllers. The video game controllers provide additional inputs to the processing unit which executes video game play based in part on the video game controller inputs. The video game controllers communicate with the processor through wired user input output ports located on the video game console or alternatively with the via the wireless communication interface.

The processor is also in data communication with a display unit which displays video game action based on video game instructions executed by the processor. The processor sends audio information associated with video game play to the audio driver and video information associated with video game play to the video driver. The audio driver generates audio signals using the audio information and the video driver likewise generates video signals using the video information. The audio and video signals are sent to a display input output port to be transmitted to the display unit for video and audio generation. In the embodiment illustrated in the video driver and audio driver are coupled to the display input output port via two dedicated bidirectional buses and . In various other embodiments separate audio and video input output ports may be used instead of a combined display input output port.

The processor may also be connected to the Internet via an internet input output port. Connection to the Internet may be used to facilitate multiplayer game play with other users in remote locations. In the context of the invention an Internet connection may also be used to upload audio features created by users to a remote server for other users to access and retrieve. In some embodiments a wireless communication interface may be used to connect the video game console to the Internet in lieu of a hard wired internet input output port. In some embodiments the wired or wireless drum system is programmed to communicate with other devices such as a personal computer with MIDI capability.

In block the process receives input from video game controllers. In several embodiments the process receives input from a guitar shaped game controller or a drum system game controller. In several embodiments the process displays images indicative of a live music venue on a display. In one such embodiment the process displays a set of drums a drummer a guitar player with a guitar and a singer a stage and a crowd. In some embodiments the input received from the video game controllers is indicative of MIDI data. In one such embodiment the process modifies the displayed images indicative of the venue based on the MIDI data. For example the process can modify the appearance of the band characters the crowd and or the lights.

In block the process checks the timing of the inputs with respect to the instructions displayed on the display. In one embodiment the process compares the timing of the displayed instruction with the input received from the game controllers to determine whether the proper input was actuated and if so whether the input was actuated at the right time. In block the process plays the note indicated by the received input from the game controller s . In some embodiments if the wrong input is actuated or if it was actuated at the wrong time then the process outputs a note or sound that indicates to the user that an incorrect note was played. In a number of embodiments the process only raises or lowers a volume of the selected song or a volume of a particular musical component of the song in response to input received from the game controller s . In one embodiment the process outputs one of three possible sounds or visual indicators for a particular note based on the timing of the user s response to the displayed instruction. For example each note can have a good okay and bad version of the note where each version provides or generates a different sound and quality of note. In one embodiment the process displays a small medium or large flame on the display based on the accuracy of the user in playing the note.

In block the process determines a score based on whether the proper input was actuated and if so also based on the timing of the proper input actuation. In block the process displays the score and or other performance feedback. In some embodiments the process outputs feedback in the form of crowd response to user action. In such case where the user has played according to instruction the crowd feedback can be positive and for example in the form of applause. On the other hand where the user has not played according to instruction the crowd feedback can negative and for example in the form of silence talking or booing.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

A number of different playing opportunities are presented to a user of a video game system having a drum system. One opportunity that is popular for accomplished musicians is the opportunity to play a drum solo. In several embodiments the user enters a mode to play a drum solo by entering a particular entry note or sequence of entry notes. Similarly the user can exit the drum solo mode by entering an exit note or sequence of exit notes. In one embodiment the user returns to the song playing before the drum solo. In another embodiment the user is returned to a user menu. In some circumstances the drum solo can be performed in sort of a free form way where the drummer follows no particular song but rather creates the drummer s own rhythms beats and fills for some length of time. In such case a number of different methods of scoring can be used for the solo mode. In other circumstances the drummer performs the drum solo as part of a song performed with other players or with just the game player and a virtual band providing specific background music for the drum solo. In some cases guitar controllers can switch to percussion sounds or other sound samples to help the drummer play a solo.

In one embodiment live drums are provided to the user while the video game system provides a drum solo pattern via a visual indicator or scrolling notes. In a number of embodiments a user can solo with a simulated drummer generated by the video game system. In one such embodiment the user controlled drummer and the game generated drummer compete with each other in a duel. In another such embodiment the user controlled drummer and the game generated drummer play in a complimentary way. Similarly in a number of embodiments two game players can play either competitively or cooperatively. In accordance with several embodiments of the invention the drum system and video game console can enable a video game user to execute various types of drum solos using suggested drum solo visual indicators in combination with live drum sounds. In a number of embodiments the opportunity to play the drum solo occurs during an encore portion of a song.

In block the process changes the display and or audio output to focus on the drum player when it is time for the drum player to perform a drum solo in the selected song. In one embodiment the process transforms the drum audio to provide the user with live drum sounds which can be modified and enhanced to assist beginner players in a number of ways such as by combining a bass drum sound with cymbal crash sounds providing supporting rhythms or providing the ability to change the drum sounds while playing live. In some embodiments the process enables the user to switch to a percussion sound bank or have unusual sound samples like instruments sounds sound effects vocals and the like compared to a previous section which can include muting drum tracks when a timing error is made.

Alternative embodiments to signal a drum solo include the process momentarily pausing the current song dimming stage lights on the display causing a displayed crowd to cheer focusing the camera or the focal point of the display on the drummer focusing the lights on the drummer and having the simulated members of the band other than the drummer walk off the stage e.g. exit the screen . In such embodiments after signaling the solo the drummer can begin the solo. After an allotted time for the solo expires the process returns to the background music of the selected song and the regular drum track. In one embodiment the process returns any band members having left the stage area to the stage. In another embodiment striking both cymbals on the drum system during the solo triggers a special scoring mode enabling a potential scoring bonus e.g. a special score multiplier is applied to a user score . In one embodiment the special scoring mode can be considered a star power mode where the user has the opportunity to earn more points during the mode which has a time limiting factor. In other embodiments free form vocals guitar play or audio from other musical instruments can be added during the drum solo. In one such case if the free form vocals properly track the beat and are on key additional points can be added to a user score. Any number of different scoring algorithms can be used to generate a user score.

In block the process receives information indicative of drum play from the drum system. In several embodiments the information is in the form of data conforming to the musical instrument digital interface MIDI standard. The MIDI standard which is known more specifically as The Complete MIDI 1.0 Detailed Specification document version 96.1 and is available from the MIDI Manufacturers Association of Los Angeles Calif. is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In some embodiments the MIDI standard can also refer to an extension of the MIDI standard known as General MIDI . In block the process plays notes based on the information received from the drum system. In some embodiments the process plays the notes based on the digital instructions contained within any number of message packets including MIDI information received from the drum system.

In block the process checks the received information to determine whether the proper drum instruction was played on the proper drum and whether the instruction was played within an acceptable time range. In block the process determines a score based on the checks performed in block . In block the process modifies the display in accordance with the score and or other performance measurements. In one embodiment the process displays the score. In another embodiment the process changes the crowd response based on the user s performance. In some embodiments the process changes the crowd response based on the user s ability to manipulate the physical actions of the simulated drummer on the display. For example the user may get better crowd response and additional points by entering a sequence of moves or drumming strikes that results in the simulated drummer on the display tossing the drum sticks and catching them or other specialized drummer maneuvers.

In one embodiment the process provides instructions for use in a drum solo mode but the compliance with those instructions does not cause the process to generate audio output. In one embodiment the process provides a blended audio transition from a song to a solo section and then back into the original song. In some embodiments the process provides live drum sample sounds to the user for a predetermined period of time. In a number of embodiments the process enables the user to configure the generation of sounds in conjunction with a strike of a drum. In one embodiment the process provides various enhanced drum sounds for drum solos executed on a based on a user skill level. In one such case for example one strike can result in multiple sounds being generated. In various embodiments the process provides drum solo lead notes and mutable drum track audio based on the player level.

In another embodiment the process provides a bonus algorithm associated with compliance with certain criteria. In one embodiment other players are required to play supporting music not associated with the original song whereby their performance affects the scoring the drummer s performance in game instrument effects such as for example levitating the drum set s and crowd reaction. In some embodiments the process generates a process controlled simulated drummer avatar plays drum solos and requires the user to play the same sections increasing in difficulty like a drumming battle. In another embodiment the avatar and user play in a complimentary manner e.g. a celebrity drummer plays with you . In some embodiments a celebrity drummer provides instruction to the game player. In some embodiments other players are allocated solo performances which affect the scoring and crowd reaction. In one embodiment the process enables the other players to play mutable continuous solo tracks with visual indicators. In some embodiments the process enables other players to play live samples with or without visual indictors that do not control the audio output.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

In block the process displays images indicative of a venue with a band a drum set and a drum player. In several embodiments the venue also includes a crowd a stage and other things common to a live music performance such as for example a rock concert. In block the process changes the display and audio output to focus on the drum player. In several embodiments the changes include momentarily pausing the current song dimming stage lights on the display causing a displayed crowd to cheer focusing the camera or the focal point of the display on the drummer and focusing the lights on the drummer. In such embodiments after signaling the solo the drummer can begin the solo. After an allotted time for the solo expires the process returns to the background music of the selected song and the regular drum track.

In one embodiment the process outputs audio in the form of a click track to assist the user during the free form drum solo. In such case the click track can be any number of sounds that assist the user in keeping a tempo. The established click track or tempo guide can also help transition the player back into the tempo of the song that will appear at the end of the solo. For example the click track can be steady crowd clapping a clapping background drum or a repetitive kick drum with cymbal crashes in the background. In some embodiments the process only outputs the click track when the process determines that the user is substantially off tempo. In some embodiments free form vocals can be added during the drum solo. In such case if the vocals properly track the beat and are on key additional points can be added to a user score. In one embodiment the process provides a special bass guitar jam song whereby a user must play supporting music on the bass guitar controller that the drummer can solo over. In such case the process can allow all members to solo at selected times and thus to highlight the soloing skills of the entire band. In such cases the guitar controllers could be triggering live music samples or playing solos within the standard game play mode.

In block the process receives information indicative of drum play from the drum system game controller. In block the process determines performance characteristics based on the information received from the drum system. In block the process modifies the display and or audio output based on the determined performance characteristics. In one embodiment for example the process provides positive crowd response when the user keeps a particular tempo or executes various drumming tricks. In some embodiments certain drum solo performance bonuses generate special effects such displaying the virtual drum elevating spinning and or levitating sparking drum sticks exploding cymbals or syncopated drum pyrotechnics.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

The drum platform further includes two mounting recesses for coupling with two vertical supports . A crash cymbal pad that provides a partial semicircular shaped sensor pad for receiving cymbal input is mounted to the vertical support to the right side of the drum platform. A hi hat cymbal pad that provides a partially semicircular shaped sensor pad for receiving cymbal input is mounted to the vertical support to the left side of the drum platform. The drum platform also includes a MIDI input not visible for receiving MIDI data from an external device e.g. a keyboard drum machine or other musical device . The lower support structure is coupled to and supports the drum platform from the ground. In several embodiments the support structure is collapsible for easy storage and shipping.

In the illustrated embodiment the kick drum pedal is coupled to the drum system wirelessly. In other embodiments the drum pedal is coupled to the drum system using a cable. The detachable control interface can be removed from the drum platform. In a number of embodiments control interface units that support different game systems can be coupled to the drum platform. In some embodiments the drum system is wirelessly coupled to a game console not shown . In other embodiments the drum system is coupled to the game console not shown using a cable including one or more conductors of electrical or optical signals.

In some embodiments the drum system includes a second hi hat control pedal that can be repeatedly depressed during part or all of a drum solo or during regular game play to keep the tempo of the song to simulate an open closed or medium tension of two hi hat cymbals or to provide actual control over the sound of the hi hat which can be closed open or medium during live drum playing or recording. In such case for example expert players could be required or receive a bonus to keep a tempo of a song for continuous sections of the song or for drum solos while playing the beats and rhythms which would indicate four limb independence. In one embodiment visual indicators are provided within the scrolling instructive display or by other means to instruct the player on how and when to play the hi hat control pedal. For example special cymbals could be provided on the standard scrolling note indicator or the simulated hi hat drum to indicate a closed open or medium position for the hi hat pedal. In some embodiments visual indicators such as an additional lane and or additional notes on the left edge of the scrolling display can indicate a tempo to be played on the hi hat.

In one embodiment the MIDI interface includes both MIDI In and MIDI Out connectors. In another embodiment the MIDI interface includes only the MIDI In connector. In some embodiments the MIDI connectors include a five pin DIN connector. In other embodiments other connectors can be used to implement the MIDI interface.

The drum and cymbal pads generally have color bands that outline the perimeter of the pads. The color bands correspond to instructions provided during game play that are indicative of which drum or cymbal pad to strike at a particular time. For example in one embodiment the snare drum pad has a red outline the high torn tom drum pad has a blue outline the low tom tom drum pad has a green outline the hi hat cymbal pad has a yellow outline and the crash cymbal pad has an orange outline. In other embodiments other colors and other methods for marking the drum pads with various colors can be used. In some embodiments the color indicators can be removed or changed.

In a number of embodiments the drum controller includes both physical settings and software based settings for accommodating drum play by either left handed or right handed players.

In operation the user can release any of the quick release clamps to collapse the entire drum support structure for storage. Alternatively the user can release any of the quick release clamps to suit a height of the drum system preferred by the user or to find the most stable configuration based on the environment surrounding the drum system e.g. user s home .

The processing circuitry is also coupled to an audio output for providing audio generated by the drum system to a stereo system or other sound generation device and a wireless console interface for communicating with a game console. In other embodiments the processing circuitry communicates with the game console over a wired interface.

The processing circuitry includes analog to digital A D circuitry that is coupled to the drum pad inputs the cymbal pad inputs the pedal input and the auxiliary I O port . The A D circuitry is coupled to a processor for processing input information and communicating with the game console. The processor communicates with the game console not shown via wireless communication circuitry coupled to the console interface . The processor can output audio generated by various inputs and stored music information via an audio driver that provides the audio output . The processor stores and retrieves information in a memory coupled to the processor. The memory can include both volatile and non volatile memory.

In operation the A D circuitry converts analog signals from each of the analog inputs into digital signals and provides the digital signals via multiple channels to the processor . The processor receives the digital data from the A D circuitry and analyzes the data for a number of characteristics including for example magnitude of the digitized signal data and timing of the data.

In some embodiments the A D circuitry includes amplifier or pre amplifier circuitry that amplifies analog output received from any of the analog inputs coupled to the A D circuitry. In several embodiments the processing circuitry includes an oscillator not shown for sampling analog data and for providing a clock reference for the processor and other components of the processing circuitry.

The wireless circuitry can provide wireless communication services to the processor using radio frequency RF communication. In other embodiments other wireless communication methods and frequencies can be used. In some embodiments the processing circuitry includes additional circuitry that supports a wired connection to the console via the console interface. In one embodiment the A D circuitry is coupled to three drum pad inputs two cymbal pad inputs and one pedal input.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

In block the process determines other musical information based on the characteristics of the digitized input. In block the process generates a data packet based on the MIDI note channel velocity and other determined musical information. In block the process outputs the data packets via a console interface. In one embodiment the process does not generate any MIDI characteristics and only outputs a one byte value indicative of the digitized analog signal.

As a user of the drum system game controller strikes the drums or cymbal pads problems with interference e.g. crosstalk between sensors can arise. For example based on the sensitivity and proximity of adjacent or nearby drum pad sensors a strike on the leftmost drum snare drum can also cause vibration and a drum pad sensor activation of the middle drum high tom tom . Thus a sensor input is generated by the middle drum even though it was not struck at that time.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one or more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

In many embodiments the range of times is based on expected vibration propagation times between drum heads usually a function of drum stand material and distance between drum heads. In some embodiments the vibration propagation times are determined empirically. In ignoring the second signal the process attempts to ensure that no sounds are registered with the drum system for non strikes of a drum. In some cases this process can be thought of as a type of sensor switch de bouncing.

In some embodiments the process provides a menu option for a crosstalk de bounce test mode. In such case the user can manually adjust any of the parameters involved in the process e.g. ranges for X X Y and Y . In one embodiment the process provides several settings or groups of parameters for the user to choose. In other embodiments the user can directly enter or configure the settings by experimenting with the drum sensors. In some embodiments the process automatically adjusts the parameters. In one embodiment the process allows configuration of the bass drum pedal e.g. degrades or too sensitive picks up foot related vibrations false double hits within its own drum head . In several embodiments the process includes different settings for registering light medium and hard velocity strikes. In some cases a knob can be provided on any of the drum or cymbal input devices e.g. pads or pedals to adjust sensitivity for a particular input device.

Due to differences in manufacturing processes or the degradation of certain pads over time some sensor pads may be more sensitive than others. In one embodiment the process provides a menu option for a pad balancing mode where the game user can balance the drum and cymbal pad sensors to counteract these potential unbalanced sensor effects. In several embodiments after the user has entered the pad balancing mode the process instructs the user to strike each pad with the same velocity displays the velocity and balances the inputs using an average. In one embodiment the process uses an automatic gain control to normalize the inputs. In another embodiment the process provides a manual gain control to enable the user to normalize the pads. In a number of embodiments the user can effectively modify the sensitivity of any of the pad sensors. In one such embodiment the process scales input received from the pad sensors in order to effectively modify the sensitivity of the pad sensors in accordance with instructions from the user.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

In one embodiment all of the control inputs provide analog information. In other embodiments some control inputs provide binary output while the other inputs provide analog output. In one embodiment some of the control inputs are omitted. In some embodiments additional control inputs are included. In one embodiment analog sticks and or analog triggers are included. In one embodiment the X Y A and B buttons provide analog output that is converted to a four bit value.

In operation a user activates one of the input sources by for example striking the surface of an available drum or cymbal pad of the drum system. In some embodiments a piezo sensor below the surface of the drum pad detects the strike and generates an analog signal based on the strike. In several embodiments for example the magnitude of the analog signal is used as the intensity or velocity of the strike. In some embodiments the analog signal is digitized into a MIDI compliant signal by control circuitry of the drum system. In some embodiments the MIDI compliant signals from the various input sources are arranged into a six element array where each element is a one byte value indicative of the magnitude of one of six input sources including three drum pad inputs two cymbal pad inputs and one foot pedal input. A signal converter converts the MIDI compliant signals into message packets recognizable by the video game console the process of which is discussed in further detail in below.

Message packets are transmitted from the drum system to the video game console. The video game console generally receives the message packets and stores them in console memory . A processor of the video game console may retrieve the message packets from the memory and process the message packets to generate audio and video output signals associated with video game play. For example different drum audio samples may be generated based on strikes applied to the different input sources of the drum system. Further details of the output generation process associated with the invention are presented in below.

In block the process receives analog signals from input sources of a drum system. Each analog signal may correspond to one input source of a drum system. For example for the drum system described with respect to there may be individual analog signals received from input sources simulating a snare drum a kick drum a high tom tom a low torn torn a hi hat cymbal and a crash cymbal. An analog signal may be generated when an input source of the drum system for example a drum pad is struck or depressed. In several of these embodiments the analog signal is based on for example the magnitude or force of the strike or the velocity of the strike or movement of the drum pad. In some embodiments each input source of the drum system is continually monitored or polled and analog input signals corresponding to the status of each input source are continually generated. In such case changes to an input signal indicate that the corresponding input source has been struck or otherwise actuated.

In block the process normalizes and digitizes the analog input signals to be compliant with the MIDI standard. In embodiments where the generated analog signals correspond to a strike velocity of one of the input sources of the drum system the analog signal may be converted to a corresponding digital value based on an interpolation of the strike velocity between a minimum possible velocity and a maximum possible velocity for the input source. In some embodiments including embodiments compliant with the MIDI standard an analog signal corresponding to a strike velocity may be normalized to a value between 0 and 127 and may be converted to a one byte value.

Generally MIDI data is 3 bytes including one byte for a MIDI channel number one byte for a MIDI note number and one byte for a MIDI velocity number. An instrument definition or MIDI channel number is available for drums or a drum kit in the MIDI protocol and is assigned to MIDI channel . Consequently for some embodiments of the invention the MIDI channel number is fixed to channel . Likewise various individual drum sounds including drum sounds associated with several of the input sources described with respect to the drum system of can be assigned note numbers under MIDI channel . For example a snare drum sound can be assigned to note number and a kick drum sound can be assigned to note number . Further discussion of the specific MIDI note numbers corresponding to preexisting drum sounds in the MIDI protocol may be found with respect to below. Thus in some embodiments of the invention both the MIDI channel number and the MIDI note number are fixed for each individual input source in the drum system. In such case the velocity number for each input source is therefore the principle variable value. As the velocity number is generally a one byte value in embodiments of the invention with six different input sources each set of input signals from the drum system may comprise 6 bytes of data.

In block the process converts the MIDI data into message packets recognizable by an associated video game console. Each video game console has a unique controller application programming interface for a default video game controller associated with the video game console. Generally to be compatible with a video game console inputs of new video game controllers and peripherals to be used with the video game console are mapped according to the console s controller application programming interface. In other words the new input sources are associated with or mapped to existing control channels e.g. defined input sources of a default video game controller. In some embodiments of the invention the input sources of the drum system may be mapped to existing control channels. As information pertaining to the mapping of the MIDI channel number and the MIDI note numbers can be fixed values the process generally does not repeatedly process and regenerate those values. Instead the channel number and note number assignments or equivalent information may be stored and retrieved from a separate removable memory source including video game instructions for example a video game CD ROM.

In some embodiments of the invention the process generates message packets from an array of the velocity numbers for each of the different input sources. The table of discussed below shows an example of a message packet array or array of velocity numbers having six elements as well as examples of mappings of each of the elements of the array to various inputs on default video game controllers for different video game consoles. In other embodiments including some embodiments which do not conform to the MIDI protocol circuitry within the drum set peripheral may further process the signals received from the input sources and generate message packets which contain more detailed information for example information on volume of desired audio outputs.

In block the process sends the generated message packets to a connected video game console. In some embodiments the drum system includes control circuitry which directs the message packets to be sent to a connected video game console and the message packets are delivered either through a wired or wireless connection. In some embodiments the message packets are configured to be compatible with the controller application programming interface of the video game console so that the video game console recognizes and is able to process the message packets without modification to program instructions associated with the video game console. In some embodiments video game instructions stored on the removable memory source for example a video game CD ROM inserted into the video game console include detailed instructions for processing received message packets. After the process sends the generated message packets to the video game console the process returns.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

In the message packet array includes six MIDI velocity numbers. Recall that each packet of standard MIDI data includes a channel number a note number and a velocity number. In accordance with the MIDI standard a General MIDI drum kit is typically located on MIDI channel . Some embodiments of the invention utilize the channel drum kit. Therefore the channel number is not generally reproduced each time a message packet is generated by the drum system. Each of the six velocity numbers in is also associated with a MIDI note number and corresponds to a drum sound available in a general MIDI drum kit.

In the illustrated embodiment for example the first velocity number has a value of 64 and corresponds to a snare drum sound mapped to MIDI note number and the last velocity number has a value of 0 and corresponds to a crash cymbal sound mapped to MIDI note number . Like the channel number the note number association for each value in the array generally remains constant and also is not reproduced in each message packet array. In some embodiments the channel number and note number associations for each value in the message packet array are stored by the video game console. In some other embodiments the entire MIDI data signal including channel number note number and velocity number may instead be stored in the array. In such case each separate MIDI data signal would occupy 3 bytes of data and the array of would comprise 18 bytes of data.

As discussed with respect to block of each individual video game console includes a controller application programming interface. The video game console is programmed to recognize specific input signals from a default video game controller associated with the video game console for example a video game controller packaged together with the video game console for retail sale. For newly developed peripherals the input signals generated by the new peripherals are generally mapped into the framework of the existing controller application programming interface. Each of the input sources of a new peripheral is mapped to an already existing input source on the default video game controller. Compliance with the controller application programming interface ensures compatibility of new peripherals with the video game console.

Therefore in some embodiments of the invention the values in each message packet array are mapped to existing analog inputs of a default video game controller associated with each different video game console. The table of illustrates examples of possible input mappings for the Xbox 360 the Nintendo Wii and the Playstation 3 . Playstation is a trademark of Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan. Nintendo and Wii are trademarks of Nintendo Company Ltd. of Kyoto Japan. Note that the input mappings presented in are arbitrary and mappings in different embodiments of the invention may vary.

In the embodiment of the velocity number for the hi hat cymbal is 50. In embodiments where the drum system is connected to a Nintendo Wii video game console the table indicates that the velocity number value may be mapped to for example the analog Z button on a Nunchuk controller for the Nintendo Wii. A processor of the Nintendo Wii may receive the message packet array of and an input signal generally associated with an analog Z button input may include an input value of 50. If Z button range does not directly support the input value the input value may be mapped to an appropriate value within a range of acceptable values for the Z button. Based on video game instructions the processor of the Nintendo Wii console may generate a MIDI data signal using the input value and in some cases after the input signal has been de mapped. The video game instructions may direct the processor to assign the input value to a MIDI velocity number paired with a MIDI channel number and a MIDI note number . A complete 3 byte MIDI data signal for the hi hat input may thus be generated in this fashion using a one byte signal from the message packet array. Alternatively if the drum system is connected to a Playstation 3 based on the embodiment of a Playstation 3 console may recognize the input value as an analog O button input associated with a Playstation 3 video game controller . The console may likewise generate a complete MIDI data signal from the one byte input value.

Each controller application programming interface allocates a fixed amount of available signal memory with which a game controller may associate its various input sources. For example the Xbox 360 controller application programming interface currently allocates 10 bytes of memory to analog signals. Memory distribution may vary between different video game consoles as well. For example on the Xbox controller 2 bytes of memory may be allocated for each axis of each analog control stick one byte for movement along an axis in for example a positive direction and one byte for movement along the axis in for example a negative direction. In these embodiments therefore each analog control stick may include 4 bytes of useable memory. Furthermore one byte of memory may be allocated for example for each analog trigger button on the default Xbox video game controller. If a default Xbox video game controller includes two analog control sticks and two trigger buttons 10 bytes of memory allocated to analog signals are therefore provided. The message packet array of may be mapped to any 6 bytes of the available 10 bytes of memory. Both the Nintendo Wii and the Playstation 3 also provide for at least 6 bytes of analog signal memory in their respective controller application programming interfaces. Therefore the array of may be mapped within their respective controller application programming interfaces as well.

Remaining unused memory allocations for example the 4 bytes of unused analog signal memory for the Xbox controller application programming interface may be used for add ons to the drum system. For example in embodiments of the invention with a MIDI IN port any unused memory allocations may be used to map various types of input devices configured to plug in to the MIDI IN port and communicate with the drum system.

In block the process receives a message packet from a drum system. In some embodiments of the invention the message packet is arranged similar to the message packet array of with a one byte source value for each of the six input sources of the drum system. In other embodiments of the invention there may be more than or less than six elements depending on the number of different input sources in the drum system and the data signals may be packed or arranged in a different manner.

In block the process extracts the MIDI data from the received message packets. The extracted data may be MIDI velocity numbers from different input sources of the drum system as has been discussed. In some embodiments a MIDI data signal is generated for each of the input signals in the message packet. In other embodiments a MIDI data signal is only generated for input signals having a non zero value. In several of these embodiments for example MIDI data signals may be generated for the snare drum input and hi hat cymbal input in the message packet array of . In some embodiments the MIDI channel number and MIDI note number associated with each respective input signal are stored in memory. MIDI data signals are generated by retrieving channel numbers and note numbers and associating a data signal for each input of the message packet the data signal including a channel number a note number and a velocity number. Referring back to the MIDI data signal corresponding to the snare drum input signal would be channel note and velocity .

In block the process determines a timbre from the velocity number of a MIDI data signal. In embodiments of the invention different timbres may be different sounds which are associated with a single instrument or input source. For most instruments volume is not the only variable characteristic of a generated sound. For example characteristics of a strike on a snare drum such as initial pitch depth of tone and sound resonance may vary based on whether the snare drum is struck forcefully or struck softly. In some embodiments of the invention the timbre is determined based on the strike velocity. For a strike velocity range of 0 to 127 a snare drum may encompass for example three different timbres. A range corresponding to a first timbre may include velocities between 1 and 40 a second timbre may include velocities between 41 and 90 and a third timbre may include velocities between 91 and 127. The MIDI data signal discussed in block and having a value of 50 would therefore fall within the second timbre range in this example. Each different MIDI data signal may include a different number of timbres and each timbre may occupy different velocity ranges depending on the characteristics of each input source.

In block the process determines a volume of the timbre. In some embodiments of the invention the volume of the timbre is based on an interpolation of the velocity number within the range of the particular timbre. In other embodiments the volume of the timbre is based on the offset into the timbre range. For example for the snare drum MIDI data signal discussed above the second timbre spans velocities to . A low volume of the timbre is generally associated with velocity and a high volume of the timbre may be associated with velocity . The volume associated with a velocity number may be determined for example by linearly interpolating between the low volume and the high volume. In other embodiments of the invention the interpolation or alternate calculation of the volume may be determined in various different ways. In some embodiments the velocity number of a MIDI data signal may also be used to determine a variety of other audio characteristics or for example visual outputs.

In block the process generates an output audio signal. The output signal selected is based on a variety of factors. The process may first select a percussive instrument based on the MIDI channel number and MIDI note number. The channel numbers and note numbers presented herein conform to the widely accepted and implemented General MIDI standard which includes the drum kit as has been discussed. In the snare drum example above a channel and note corresponds to a snare drum in the General MIDI drum kit. The process may then retrieve an audio sample based on the determined timbre associated with the selected percussive instrument. Audio samples may be stored on for example a video game CD ROM containing video game instructions or in a memory. The process may then output the timbre audio sample at the determined volume. A processor of the video game console may alternatively create audio generation information based on the audio sample and output volume and send the audio generation information to an audio driver associated with the video game console to generate the actual audio output signal. In some embodiments various types of video output signals may also be generated based on the MIDI data signals. After the output signals are generated the process returns.

In one embodiment the process can perform the illustrated actions in any order. In another embodiment the process can omit one or more of the actions. In some embodiments the process performs additional actions in conjunction with the process. In other embodiments one of more of the actions are performed simultaneously.

A shaft not visible extends from the first cylindrical joint . The shaft has a second cylindrical joint at the end opposite to the first cylindrical joint. The second cylindrical joint includes a second thumbscrew plug that operates in a fashion similar to the first thumbscrew plug to prevent rotation about the axis of the shaft when the thumbscrew plug is tightened. The second cylindrical joint also directly supports and couples the cymbal pad . The cymbal pad includes a sensor capable of detecting a strike to the cymbal by for example a drum stick. In one embodiment the sensor is a piezoelectric sensor in a sheet like form. In some embodiments the cymbal pad includes a top layer of rubber a middle layer of acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS and a bottom layer of piezoelectric material. In such case electrical leads are attached to the piezo material which can extend back to the drum system. In some embodiments the piezo material is a thin film.

In some embodiments an amplifier or pre amplifier is used in conjunction with the piezoelectric sensor to detect a cymbal strike. In other embodiments other sensors capable of detecting a cymbal strike can be used. The cymbal pad also includes a color outline portion at the perimeter of the rounded cymbal pad. The color outline displays a particular color generally unique to the drum system components that corresponds with the color of the notes displayed on the display screen for a game player during game play.

In some embodiments an amplifier or pre amplifier is used in conjunction with the piezoelectric sensor to detect a drum strike. In other embodiments other sensors capable of detecting a drum strike can be used. The drum pad also includes a color band . The color band displays a particular color generally unique to the drum system components that corresponds with the color of notes displayed on the display screen during game play.

The drum pad is supported by two foam supports that are attached to opposite ends of the bottom of the outermost areas of the ABS layer . In a steady state or non struck position of the drum the foam supports do not contact the L shaped retainer . When the drum pad is struck however the foam supports may contact the L shaped retainer and prevent overextension of the drum pad below the surface of the cabinet. In several embodiments the foam supports have spring like character and bias the drum pad to a surface level. Two retainers are coupled to both an edge of the cabinet and the gum rubber layer of the drum pad to keep the drum pad aligned within the drum chamber formed by the cabinet and L shaped retainer. In one embodiment the separation between the edge of the cabinet and the drum pad is one eighth of one inch. In a number of embodiments the drum cabinet does not form a sealed enclosure and instead provides a partially open bottom as illustrated in .

The base plate includes a lower spring retainer which has a cylindrical shape with an open top to receive a lower portion of the coil spring . The pedal plate includes an upper spring retainer which has a cylindrical shape and an open bottom to receive an upper portion of the coil spring . In other embodiments the spring can take different shapes and the spring retainers can take other suitable shapes. In some embodiments the spring can be replaced by another device resisting rotation of the pedal plate towards the base plate.

The base plate further includes a sensor assembly for sensing movement of the pedal plate and for providing one or more analog signals indicative of the degree of pressure applied to the pedal plate . The sensor assembly provides the analog signals via a cable to the drum system not shown . The sensor assembly is disposed on the top of the base plate and near an end opposite of the hinge and has a cylindrical shape. The pedal plate includes a actuating stop structure that protrudes from a bottom surface of the pedal plate at a location on the bottom surface that corresponds with the location of the sensor assembly on the base plate such that contact is made with the sensor assembly when the foot pedal is activated or compressed. The location of the actuating stop structure is generally near the end of the pedal plate opposite of the hinge . In the illustrated embodiment the actuating stop structure has a cylindrical shape where the diameter of the cylinder is less than a diameter of the cylindrical shape of the sensor assembly. In other embodiments the sensor and actuating means can take different shapes.

In some embodiments the bottom of the base plate includes one or more rubber feet that engage the floor and provide traction to avoid slipping. In one embodiment the bottom of the base plate includes one or more Velcro pads that can provide traction on particular flooring surfaces such as carpet. In some embodiments the top of the pedal plate includes one or more traction mechanisms. In one embodiment the traction mechanisms can include plastic groves traction pads or adhesives. In some embodiments the heel plate includes similar traction mechanisms.

The kick drum pedal also includes an actuating stop structure disposed along the bottom surface of a pedal plate . The stop structure includes a cylindrical plug like insert for making contact with the sensor assembly. In one embodiment the insert of the stop structure is an ABS or other plastic material. In several embodiments the stop structure is comprised of robust materials to withstand repeated contact with the sensor assembly. Similarly the sensor assembly is comprised of robust materials to withstand repeated contact with the stop structure.

An upper spring retainer is also disposed along the bottom surface of the pedal plate . The upper spring retainer has an open cylindrical shape for receiving a portion of a spring not shown at a bottom of the cylinder. The upper spring retainer includes a cylindrical recess for receiving the spring. A lower spring retainer is also disposed on the top surface of the base plate . The spring retainer has an open cylindrical shape for receiving a portion of a spring not shown . The lower spring retainer includes a cylindrical recess for receiving the spring.

In one embodiment the piezo sensor includes a top electrode and a bottom electrode with piezo material disposed in between the top and bottom electrodes. When the piezo material is compressed electric signals can flow from one electrode to the other. The electric signals can flow at a rate proportional to or at least dependent on the amount of pressure applied to the piezo material. In several embodiments the signals generated by the piezo sensor are analog signals indicative of a degree of compression or pressure applied to the sensor from a game player by way of the actuating stop structure and the pedal plate . In other embodiments other sensors can be used instead of the piezo sensor.

In one embodiment a process executing on the game console changes the motion of a simulated drummer character on the display based on which drum or cymbal sensor pads are actuated. For example for strikes of a single drum pad at a time the process display the simulated drummer striking the hi hat hi tom lo tom and crash cymbal with the right hand while striking the snare with the left hand. In other embodiments other assignments for hands to drums are possible. In one embodiment the process provides a setting for either a right handed or a left handed player. In some embodiments assignments for simulated drummer hand motion can change if two drums are instructed to be struck at the same time. For example in one embodiment the snare could be assigned to the left hand the lo tom to the right hand crash cymbal to the right hand unless already in use the hi torn to the left hand unless already in use and hi hat to the right hand unless already in use. In other embodiments other drum to hand assignments can be used. In some embodiments the user can record and play back in real time to view the actions of the drummer.

The invention therefore provides a system and method for playing a music video game with a drum system game controller. Although the invention has been described with respect to certain embodiments it should be recognized that the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described the invention comprising the claims and their insubstantial variations supported by this disclosure.

