---

title: Method and system for notification between mobile terminals during communication
abstract: The present application discloses methods, devices, servers, and systems for notification between mobile terminals during communication. When two mobile terminals are in an active communication session, sometimes one terminal fails to respond to the other terminal due to various reasons such as distractions, additional responsibilities, or technical difficulties. The mobile terminal that is not getting a response may then utilize the process herein disclosed to notify the other terminal that a response is expected. By shaking or other convenient approaches, a mobile terminal may send out a notification request during an active communication session. The other terminal may return a notification response indicating whether the other terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or is in an idle status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374687&OS=09374687&RS=09374687
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09374687
owner_city: Shenzhen, Guangdong Province
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20140421
---
This application is a continuation application of PCT Patent Application No. PCT CN2013 087378 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR NOTIFICATION BETWEEN MOBILE TERMINALS DURING COMMUNICATION filed Nov. 19 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210574198.5 Methods Devices Servers and Systems for Notification between Mobile Terminals during Communication filed Dec. 26 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present application relates to the field of communication technology and in particular to methods devices servers and systems for notification between mobile terminals during communication.

With the rapid development of communication technology people are increasingly accustomed to using mobile terminals to communicate with friends and family for all types of exchanges including voice conversations video conferences text messages etc. With the existing technology the users in an active communication session sometimes have to wait for the other end to reply having no convenient way to remind the other end resulting in long waits and waste of time.

Accordingly it is necessary and desirable to provide a new technology so as to resolve the technical problem and improve the above mentioned approach.

The above deficiencies and other problems associated with notification during communication are reduced or eliminated by the invention disclosed below. In some embodiments the invention is implemented in a computer system that has one or more processors memory and one or more modules programs or sets of instructions stored in the memory for performing multiple functions. Instructions for performing these functions may be included in a computer program product configured for execution by one or more processors.

One aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method performed by a first mobile terminal. The first mobile terminal may detect a movement status of the first mobile terminal while the first mobile terminal and a second mobile terminal are in an active communication session. The first mobile terminal may then send a notification request to the second mobile terminal through a server when the movement status of the first mobile terminal satisfies a predefined condition wherein the notification request contains a second terminal identifier corresponding to the second mobile terminal and in response to the notification request the second mobile terminal is configured to return a notification response to the first mobile terminal through the server. After receiving the notification response from the server the first terminal may display the notification response at the first mobile terminal wherein the notification response indicates whether the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or is in an idle status.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer system. The computer system may comprise a server a first mobile terminal and at least one second mobile terminal the first mobile terminal having one or more processors memory and one or more programs modules stored in the memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors the one or more program modules including a detection module configured to detect a movement status of the first mobile terminal while the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal are in an active communication session a notification request module configured to send a notification request to the second mobile terminal through the server when the movement status of the first mobile terminal satisfies a predefined condition wherein the notification request contains a second terminal identifier corresponding to the second mobile terminal and in response to the notification request the second mobile terminal is configured to return a notification response to the first mobile terminal through the server a receiving module configured to receive the notification response from the server and a display module configured to display the notification response at the first mobile terminal wherein the notification response indicates whether the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or is in an idle status.

Another aspect of the invention involves a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored therein instructions which when executed by a first mobile terminal cause the first mobile terminal to detect a movement status of the first mobile terminal while the first mobile terminal and a second mobile terminal are in an active communication session send a notification request to the second mobile terminal through the server when the movement status of the first mobile terminal satisfies a predefined condition wherein the notification request contains a second terminal identifier corresponding to the second mobile terminal and in response to the notification request the second mobile terminal is configured to return a notification response to the first mobile terminal through the server receive the notification response from the server and display the notification response at the first mobile terminal wherein the notification response indicates whether the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or is in an idle status.

Some embodiments may be implemented on either the terminal side or the server side of a terminal server network environment.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

Referring to and the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal may be in an active communication session . The active communication session may refer to any real time chat or messaging sessions based on text audio or video exchanges or any combination thereof. The active communication session may refer to a session where no further authorization is required to set up a communication channel. A communication channel between the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal has been established and messages from one mobile terminal may reach the other mobile terminal directly without the other mobile terminal s further authorization. In operation an active communication session may be reflected by the presence of a communication interface such as a chat window wherein the communication interface may be used to exchange text audio and or video messages.

However an active communication session does not ensure that both parties are actively engaged in the exchange at the present moment. One party in the active communication session may be idle the active communication session is still the currently engaged session but the party is not paying attention or may be engaging in task communication not involving the other party of the active communication session e.g. in a current communication with a third party. In operation an active communication session may be a currently engaged session when the communication interface used for the active communication session is the highlighted or selected interface. On the other hand an active communication session may be in the background not a currently engaged session and not being highlighted or selected.

The first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal may be any computing device that has networking capability and is able to receive transfer play and or display digital contents such as but not limited to text pictures audio video and any combination thereof. The first mobile terminal and second mobile terminal may or may not be the same type of devices. The first mobile terminal and or the second mobile terminal may be a smart phone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a vehicle associated terminal a digital photo frame a laptop computer or a desktop computer. The server may be any computing device that that is capable of providing data processing and networking capabilities. The active communication session may be maintained by the server . It should also be noted that the embodiments shown in are considered examples of the interactions between the devices. The number of devices involved in the current system may vary according to the needs of the users the capacity of the server and the application programs and the hardware capabilities of the first mobile terminals and the second mobile terminals. There may be multiple first mobile terminals and or multiple interacting mobile terminals forming a number of active communication sessions. In some embodiments a number of mobile terminals are in an active communication session. The first mobile terminal is the terminal sending out the notification request and the second mobile terminal generally refers to mobile terminals receiving the notification request.

Referring to as shown in step the first mobile terminal may confirm that the first mobile terminal is in an active communication session. Step may involve self examination of one going processes by the first mobile terminal . In some embodiments being in an active communication session provides a prerequisite for the first mobile terminal to send out a notification request if the confirmation cannot be completed the first mobile terminal may not send out the request. Alternatively step may be optional and the notification request may be sent without final confirmation that the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal are in an active communication session.

Referring to as shown in step the first mobile terminal may detect the movement status of the first mobile terminal . Also referring to as shown in step the first mobile terminal may detect a movement status of the first mobile terminal while the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal are in an active communication session.

The movement status may refer to a processed combination of a number of parameters of first mobile terminal . Such parameters may include but not limited to orientation position location direction speed and acceleration. Sensors built in the first mobile terminal or attached to the first mobile terminal may detect the parameters and application programming interfaces APIs may be used to determine the movement status of the first mobile terminal based on compilations and calculations. For example accelerometers and other sensors associated with the first mobile terminal may be used to detect that the first mobile terminal is being shaken the device is being moved in predefined pattern e.g. back and forth with speeds accelerations that fit in a predefined range. The operational approaches to determine the movement status are known in the art and may vary based on the setup of device and preference of the users.

Referring to as shown in step the first mobile terminal may send a notification request to the second mobile terminal through the server when the movement status of the first mobile terminal satisfies a predefined condition wherein the notification request contains a second terminal identifier corresponding to the second mobile terminal and in response to the notification request the second mobile terminal is configured to return a notification response to the first mobile terminal through the server.

Referring to the first mobile terminal may send a notification request to the second mobile terminal through the server . In some embodiments as indicated above the notification request is sent only when the movement status of the first mobile terminal satisfies a predefined condition.

In some embodiments the notification request may contain a second terminal identifier. The second terminal identifier may correspond to the second mobile terminal and may be used to identify the second mobile terminal . Similarly the first mobile terminal may have a first terminal identifier that may be used to identify the first mobile terminal . The terminal identifiers may be any device chip symbol code data or electronic or magnetic information item. A terminal identifier may have a one to one corresponding relationship with the mobile terminal and the mobile terminal may be uniquely identified by the terminal identifier. In some embodiments the first terminal identifier may be a chip device identification code a cell phone number a communication account number or a server login account number that may be embedded in a notification request. In some embodiments the terminal identifier may be a radio frequency identification RFID tag based on other wireless networking technologies. In some other embodiments the first terminal identifier may be a barcode e.g. 2 dimension barcode attached to the external surface of the mobile terminal.

The terminal identifiers e.g. the second terminal identifier may be acquired by the server or other devices by simple transmission. For example in some embodiments the second terminal identifier may be embedded in the notification request and the server may extract the second terminal identifier from the notification request and identify the second mobile terminal based on the second terminal identifier ensuring correct transmission of the notification request. In addition the first terminal identifier may also be transmitted in the notification request allowing the server and the second mobile terminal to identify the mobile terminal that sends out the notification request.

In some embodiments the terminal identifiers may be acquired before the notification request is sent. For example a barcode or a RFID tag terminal identifier may be scanned or detected by another device with scanning or radio frequency detection before the notification request is transmitted.

The server as indicated above may be any computing device. The server may comprise network applications that may be used to connect to the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal . In some embodiments the server may play a role in filtering the notification request . For example instead of indiscriminately forwarding all the notification request from the first mobile terminal the server may further examine whether the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal are in an active communication session and only send the notification request to the second mobile terminal when the result is positive. Furthermore the server may examine whether the active communication session is the currently engaged session for second mobile terminal and only send the notification request to the second mobile terminal when the result is positive. The communication status of the first mobile terminal and second mobile terminal may be acquired by the server through communication reports and as described below. The filtering approach may limit which notification request may reach the second mobile terminal preventing disturbance and or harassment in certain scenarios.

The notification request is a request from the first mobile terminal to get the attention of the user of the second mobile terminal . In some embodiments the user of the second mobile terminal may become distracted or get hindered by technical difficulties such as a slow network connection resulting in lack of communication from the second mobile terminal . The user of the first mobile terminal may want to remind the second mobile terminal that an exchange is taking place and the user of the first mobile terminal is waiting for a response. Thus the notification request may include a reminder section which indicates that the first mobile terminal is waiting for a response from the second mobile terminal.

As indicated in step of in some embodiments the notification request may be sent when the movement status satisfies a predetermined condition. As indicated above the operational approaches to determine the movement status are generally known. The conditions for the movement status may be set by establishing a combination of patterns and ranges for the parameters that are associated with the movement status. For example the preset condition may be formulated as the first mobile terminal is being shaken and shaking may be further defined by setting certain patterns and ranges for the moving directions average speed average distance and or average acceleration of the first mobile terminal. By setting proper patterns and ranges shaking can be effectively distinguished from other movement status such as vibrating. The preset condition for the movement status may be set to any combination or repetition of movements. For example the preset condition may be that the first mobile terminal is being swirled around. By providing clear definitions for the parameters the first mobile terminal may determine whether the preset condition is satisfied. In some embodiments the user may be able to set the predefined conditions.

The notification request may be sent under a number of conditions. One example of such conditions is listed above the movement status of the first mobile terminal is that the first mobile terminal is being shaken. Another example of the condition may be that a time period since the first mobile terminal has received the last message from the second mobile terminal exceeds a threshold e.g. 2 minutes . With such a limitation the notification request may only be sent if the first mobile terminal has not received a response from the second mobile terminal for an extended period of time the time period exceeding a threshold. Such optional conditions may prevent unintentional transmission of notification requests.

Referring to after receiving the notification request the second mobile terminal may be induced to engage in preset actions . The preset actions may be any actions that provide notice to the user of the second mobile terminal . The preset actions may be actions configured by a program in the second mobile terminal or by the user of the second mobile terminal . The preset actions may be vibrating flashing displaying a message receiving an email displaying a pop up window displaying a picture or photo playing a sound track showing a video or any combination thereof. For example the preset actions may be displaying the reminder section of the notification request . The preset actions may take place instantaneous after the second mobile terminal receives the notification request or may be delayed by a fixed time period. The preset actions are optional and it is possible that the second mobile terminal does not engage in any actions after receiving the notification request .

Referring to in step the second mobile terminal may examine the currently engaged session of the second mobile terminal . As indicated above the currently engaged session is generally a communication session that the second mobile terminal instantly participants in and is usually the highlighted or selected session. The currently engaged session may be the active communication session . However the currently engaged session may also be another communication session that is different from the active communication session and or does not involve first mobile terminal .

As indicated in step of and also referring to the second mobile terminal may send a notification response to the first mobile terminal through the sever . The notification response may inform the first mobile terminal about the currently engage session of the second mobile terminal . Referring to also shown by step of the first mobile terminal may receive the notification response from the second mobile terminal .

The notification response is an optional response from the second mobile terminal to the first mobile terminal . The notification response may be sent automatically after the second mobile terminal receives the notification request . On the other hand the notification response may be sent only when certain conditions are satisfied. For example the second mobile terminal may send out the notification response if the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal. When the active communication session is not the currently engaged session for the second mobile terminal the second mobile terminal may be communicating with a third mobile terminal making it necessary to notify the first mobile terminal not to wait any more. On the other hand it may not be necessary to send the notification response when the second mobile terminal is only idle the active communication session is still the highlighted and or selected session only that the user of the second mobile terminal is distracted or hindered by technical difficulties. In such situations the user the second mobile terminal may simply send a response through user input. Nevertheless it is possible that the notification response may be sent simply in response to the notification request without any further conditions.

The notification response may be based on the first terminal identifier which uniquely identifies the first mobile terminal . The first terminal identifier as described above may be acquired by the second mobile terminal by various processes such as transmission from the first mobile terminal or by searching the server .

Referring to also shown by step the first mobile terminal may display the notification response at the first mobile terminal . Also referring to in some embodiments the notification response may indicate whether the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or is in an idle status.

As indicated above after receiving the notification request the second mobile terminal may examine its currently engaged session in step . Then the second mobile terminal may export the examination results in the notification response to inform the first mobile terminal . The notification response may contain all kinds of information such as but not limited to the currently engaged session of the second mobile terminal . In some embodiments the second mobile terminal may be in a current communication with a third mobile terminal or in an idle status with the active communication session as the currently engaged session. The notification response may provide such information to the first mobile terminal so that the user of the first mobile terminal may understand whether it is likely that the user of the second mobile terminal may respond through user input. The notification response may also include other information such as but not limited to that the user of the second mobile terminal will respond soon through user input that the second mobile terminal is experiencing technical difficulties and that the second mobile terminal is no longer in an active communication session with the first mobile terminal .

Referring to the first mobile terminal may optionally send first terminal communication reports to the server . Similarly the second mobile terminal may send second terminal communication reports to the server . The first terminal communication reports and the second terminal communication reports may be sent with or without conditions. In some embodiments the first terminal communication reports and or the second terminal communication reports may be sent only when the first mobile terminal and the second mobile terminal are in an active communication session . On the other hand the first terminal communication reports and or the second terminal communication reports may be sent automatically without further conditions.

The first terminal communication report may be sent before or after the notification request . In some embodiments the first terminal communication reports are associated with or even merge with the notification request . Alternatively in some embodiments the first terminal communication reports may be send periodically and repeatedly but not associated with the notification request . The first terminal communication report may include a number of information items such as but not limited to the movement status of the first mobile terminal the first terminal identifier of the first mobile terminal and the active communication sessions of the first mobile terminal . By receiving the first terminal communication report the server may be better informed about the operations of the first mobile terminal . Some of the functions stated above as performed by the first mobile terminal may be performed by the server . For example by receiving and analyzing the movement status of the first mobile terminal the server may be used as the device that send out the notification request . The first terminal identifier may be used to identify the first mobile terminal when the server is sending the notification response to the first mobile terminal .

Similarly the second terminal communication report may be sent before or after the notification request . In some embodiments the second terminal communication reports are associated with the notification request . In some embodiments the second terminal communication reports may be associated or merged with the notification response . Alternatively in some embodiments the second terminal communication reports may be send periodically and repeatedly but not associated with the notification request or notification response . The second terminal communication report may include a number of information items such as but not limited to the second terminal identifier of the second mobile terminal the active communication sessions of the second mobile terminal and the currently engaged session of the second mobile terminal . By receiving the second terminal communication report the server may be better informed about the operations of the second mobile terminal . For example the second terminal identifier may assist the server in sending the notification request to the second mobile terminal .

As indicated above the second mobile terminal may periodically send a second terminal communication report to the server and the second terminal communication report may indicate whether the second mobile terminal is in a current communication with the third mobile terminal or is in an idle status. In addition the notification request may be based on the first terminal identifier and contain a first terminal identifier corresponding to the first terminal and the notification request may indicate that the first mobile terminal is waiting for a response from the second mobile terminal.

While particular embodiments are described above it will be understood it is not intended to limit the invention to these particular embodiments. On the contrary the invention includes alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or in response to detecting that a stated condition precedent is true depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined that a stated condition precedent is true or if a stated condition precedent is true or when a stated condition precedent is true may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or upon detecting or in response to detecting that the stated condition precedent is true depending on the context.

Although some of the various drawings illustrate a number of logical stages in a particular order stages that are not order dependent may be reordered and other stages may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

