---

title: Cloud and HTML based document management and creation system
abstract: A web-browser/web server method of creating new documents and signing existing documents, in particular faxes and email attachments, useful for ecommerce and other applications. Documents or document components are sent to the web server. At the web server, the images of the documents are converted to an image layer, and are manipulated by combining the image layer with annotation layers constructed from instructions and data that are uploaded by the user from a web browser or app running on a remote computerized device. The system and method manipulates the documents using HTML5 based image manipulation features such as the <canvas> element. Using this method, users may view and otherwise manipulate documents from their web browsers as if the documents were residing on their local machine. Users may then instruct the remote server to transmit to the intended destination by analog or electronic fax, email attachment, download, or other means.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08958109&OS=08958109&RS=08958109
owner: 
number: 08958109
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140413
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 441 781 CLOUD AND HTML BASED FAX AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM inventor Sundaram Natarajan filed Apr. 6 2012 application Ser. No. 13 441 781 in turn claimed the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 473 680 CLOUD AND HTML BASED FAX AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM inventor Sundaram Natarajan filed Apr. 8 2011 this application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 231 025 METHOD FOR RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF SCHEDULE CONTROLED NETWORKABLE MERCHANT ECOMMERCE SITES inventor Sundaram Natarajan filed Mar. 31 2014 application Ser. No. 14 231 025 in turn claimed the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 807 214 METHOD FOR RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF SCHEDULE CONTROLED NETWORKABLE MERCHANT ECOMMERCE SITES inventor Sundaram Natarajan filed Apr. 2 2013 the contents of all of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention is in the field of faxing and electronic document management technology and also in the field of document creation technology.

Many business functions in modern life are based upon transactions in which an individual receives paper forms often by fax or by downloading from the Internet prints out the forms fills in a few items signs the form and then either faxes the form somewhere else or else scans the form and emails the form somewhere else.

For example Doctor s offices are constantly inundated with insurance forms patient forms and prescription refill request forms. These forms are often handled by fax over telephone lines and thus the physician s staff often spends a considerable amount of time shuffling paper from fax machines to the doctor and back to other fax machines as a result. In addition to expense and inefficiency this paper shuffling can also lead to errors as individual papers can often become lost mishandled and or faxed to the wrong destination.

In the same way contracts and government forms for example tax forms are also constantly being received first in electronic form as email attachments scans faxes downloads and the like. They are then briefly converted to paper for the purposes of the signature and then converted back to electronic form for subsequent emailing as attachments faxes uploads and the like. The resulting process is again quite time consuming and inefficient.

Various types of prior art document management systems have been proposed exemplified by U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 411 685 6 859 909 7 164 488 7 317 697 7 339 707 and U.S. application Ser. Nos. 09 922 745 09 939 440 and 10 476 833 they have suffered from various drawbacks. In addition to being either cumbersome to use tied to proprietary technology or simply not appropriately designed to adequately streamline the electronic to paper to electronic signature process none have adequately met user needs.

Although the Adobe Acrobat family of products produced by Adobe Systems Inc. San Jose Calif. have had some success with various proprietary solutions to manage PDF documents these proprietary solutions tend to consume much computer system resources and also tend to lack flexibility and are restricted to fillable or structured PDF documents

Thus the present unsatisfactory state of affairs of electronic to paper back to electronic conversions continues to be the standard method of conducting business. Further improvements in this area are thus desirable.

An additional problem exists in the field of remote document creation technology. In some applications such as electronic commerce an online purchaser of a product such as a gift product may wish to create a customized gift card or other set of documents to send with the product. Although methods to allow partial customization for example by allowing an online user to enter in text that can later be made part of a document exist the ability to easily customize such documents using standard online tools remains suboptimal.

Ideally what is needed is a simple lightweight e.g. minimal burden to the user or the user s equipment and very low cost method to allow users to streamline the present cumbersome system of electronic to paper to electronic document signing and annotation as well as for other types of document creation.

The present invention is for a web cloud based document management and document creation system that allows users equipped with standard computerized devices and web browsers or apps to create virtual paper copies of relevant faxes and other documents on remote servers sign or otherwise annotate these virtual copies and then transmit the final signed or annotated results to the user s designated recipient all without ever having to handle paper or sign paper copies of documents. In other embodiments the present invention can also be used by ecommerce customers purchasing gifts and other products to create documents such as gift cards intended to be delivered to the recipient along with the purchased gifts or other products.

The system takes advantage of recent advances in HTML functionality such as the element recently introduced in HTML5 and or other alternative HTML image manipulation element s to manipulate high quality images of faxes and documents on remote web servers while also showing high quality images of the resulting annotated documents on the user s local web browser. This allows the user to conveniently manipulate a virtual electronic copy of the document with the same ease and speed as a paper copy of the document but without the hassles of having to print to paper handle paper and scan paper.

In one embodiment the invention may be a web browser web server based method of signing documents in particular faxes and email attachments. Documents are uploaded to the invention s web server alternatively called a signature web server often by analog or electronic fax reception email attachment or upload. At the signature web server the documents are converted to an image layer and are signed manipulated and otherwise altered by combining the resulting document image layer with various annotation layers. These annotation layers are created by the user signer and reside on the annotation server but are created from commands coming from the user s web browser or app e.g. a smartphone or tablet app .

In a preferred embodiment the system and method manipulates the documents using HTML5 based image manipulation features such as the element or equivalent HTML based image elements. Using this method users may view sign annotate and otherwise manipulate documents from their web browsers as if the documents were residing on their local machine. Users may create signed and otherwise annotated documents and then instruct the remote web server to transmit the annotated or signed document to the user s desired destination by essentially any and all transmission methods. Thus the final annotated document can be transmitted by analog or electronic fax methods email attachment direct web service connection download or even transmitted by a physically mailed hard copy if desired.

Nomenclature Here documents that exist in an electronic form for at least part of their life cycle are often referred to in the alternative in this document as faxes even though the document may not have actually been transmitted by an old style type analog fax transmission. Thus for example a document in PDF form that may be transmitted by an email attachment will often be referred to in the alternative as a fax .

As previously discussed the prior art method of handling and signing documents such as faxes was unsatisfactory due to the need to create what were often only temporary paper copies of the documents simply for purposes of capturing a signature or other type of annotation.

By contrast the invention streamlines this inefficient process. In particular the invention eliminates the necessity of having to produce an intermediate paper copy of the document for signing and annotation purposes.

In one embodiment the invention may be a method of annotating a web server stored document images using a web browser or other app. Because often these annotations will be user signatures this web server will occasionally be referred to in this specification as a signature web server to help designate this commonly used function and to distinguish the invention s web server from other web servers. It should be understood of course that in fact the invention s signature web server will in fact generally be capable of many other functions as well. These other functions can include various ecommerce functions which will be discussed shortly.

This method may for example work by first loading the document images onto the signature web server. These document images may come from many different sources. In some embodiments the signature web server can be either equipped with the analog circuitry necessary to receive and transmit standard analog fax transmissions or else be in communication with other servers devices or services e.g. eFax equipped to receive standard analog fax transmissions. In other embodiments the signature web server may receive emails that contain attached documents such as PDF attachments by either standard email methods e.g. POP or IMAP connections to email servers or by use of various email service e.g. Gmail Application Programming Interface API methods or by accessing documents through web services from other web servers. In other cases the document images may be directly uploaded to the signature web server directly from the web browsers of various users running various computerized devices such as desktop computers laptop computers tablets and smartphones . Some documents may also be stored on the signature web server s database . Other documents may be uploaded from third party web servers . Some documents may be located by various ecommerce merchants using various administrator control panels such as administrator web pages apps and the like.

The signature web server web server may convert the documents to various electronic image formats as appropriate and generally will operate on the document images using a virtual software image layer based strategy. In order to facilitate communication and synchronization with the various users running web browsers on various computerized devices often it will be convenient to manipulate the document images on the signature web server using various HTML image functions. In a preferred embodiment the invention may utilize the HTML5 element or other HTML based image manipulating elements.

Here for example at the signature web server the original document may be converted to a first document image layer . Thus for example the signature web server may send an HTML version of the first document image layer to user 1 who may thus view this original document in his or her local web browser. Alternatively this first HTML version may be produced by combining the first document image layer with empty or blank annotation layers . The signature web server will also send various web browser based image manipulation tools to user 1 as well. User 1 can then use these web browser based image manipulation tools to annotate his or her image of the document on his or her web browser . The web browser will send the various user manipulations back to the signature web server . Here for example user text based manipulations e.g. filling out an image of a form by apparently typing on the form in his or her web browser will be converted at the signature web server into a text based image layer .

User manipulations of the document image e.g. drawing on the image of the document in his or her web browser will be transmitted over the internet from the user s web browser to the signature web server and this data may be converted at the signature web server into an image based annotation layer . In addition to applying new or previously uploaded signature images or signature motions i.e. drawing vector commands producing a signature other user image manipulations may include standard electronic drawing commands including lines rectangles circles ovals arcs curves points and brushstrokes of various widths colors and textures. Various stamps and other image templates may also be applied in this manner.

Some of these image based manipulations may be used to highlight or redact content from the original image . For example a transparent yellow box could be imposed to emphasize some content. Alternatively an opaque black box may be imposed over objectionable or confidential content thus obscuring this objectionable or confidential content from being seen by the recipient of the final outgoing document .

The signature web server web server can store a record of these user annotations as they sequentially arrive from the user. This allows the system to easily track changes and easily undo the latest changes in order in case the user wishes to undo the latest changes.

The signature web server web server will electronically merge or combine the various image layers creating a composite document image that can be sent to the user s web browser . Thus from the user s perspective assuming a good internet connection the user simply appears to be editing the document as if the user was using a standard locally based image manipulation program rather than actually manipulating the appearance of the document on the remote signature server .

Note that the actual original document image need not be actually altered at any time during this process. This allows the user to completely undo all of his or her alterations and also allows the original document image to be reused multiple times for different purposes as desired. Thus for example a merchant may upload various gift card templates as various original document images and allow an ecommerce customer to select a suitable gift card template for additional annotation.

Although the original document image may be preserved unaltered in some embodiments in some embodiments it may also be useful to give the remote user s an ability to at least alter the brightness and contrast of the original document through the use of controls located on the user s local web browsers. Additionally the original document may be cropped rotated sharpened undergo color conversions e.g. color to black and white grayscale or color to black and white 1 bit images color adjustments and other alterations as needed in some cases producing a modified version of the original document image that can be the basis for subsequent user annotation and signatures.

When the user is satisfied with the annotations and or signatures the user can inform the signature web server web server to accept the final merged annotated document image and to transmit the final annotated document image to a user specified recipient or destination .

These annotated document images can be transmitted to a designated recipient by many different means. For example the original user may wish to simply print his or her own copy by issuing a print command from the web browser running on the user s computerized device . Alternatively the user may direct a different user to print from their device. Other methods include downloading a digital image file such as a PDF file from a web browser running on a computerized device transmitting an analog or digital fax signal to a third party fax fax server or fax service such as eFax transmitting an email to a third party email account transmitting an email attachment to a third party email account uploading to a third party server physically mailing a hard copy to a third party or storing a electronic copy of the annotated document image on the signature web server database .

An additional advantage of the virtual image layer approach is that in addition to the fact that the original document image can be stored in the signature web server in an unaltered form the various annotation layers such as the text annotation layer or various elements of the text annotation layer and the image annotation layer or various elements of the image annotation layer can also be stored on the signature web server. This allows frequently used annotation components such as signature images to be stored on the signature web server and be reused for different documents as will be discussed later.

In some embodiments different users e.g. and may log onto the signature web server as individuals and will not exchange documents between users. However in other embodiments a user can also share a document with annotations with another user to support collaborative edits annotations or sequential edits between users.

For example consider a form that has to be filled out by multiple parties such as an application form for an athletic scholarship. Here a student may first fill out the personal details a parent may then complete another section authorizing participation and then one or more coaches may complete the application form with additional information before the form is finally submitted. The invention supports this type of collaborative edits annotations between multiple users.

This collaborative edits annotation feature is particularly useful for as in group practices business and the like where multiple users e.g. and may sign up under a group account and all may have common access to the same set of documents.

Additionally the signature web server may impose various levels of security and restricted access as desired. This can be done by standard techniques such as by use of passwords identification keys biometric methods e. g. fingerprint scanners and so on.

In other embodiments signatures per se need not be entered but the same methods may be used to create various other types of documents often from various preloaded templates. These other embodiments will be discussed shortly.

A first prototype version of the invention s methods was implemented in software residing in computer memory running on one or more computer processors typically x86 or ARM processors running on one or more Internet connected web servers. This type of configuration is often referred to as a cloud based application. The prototype was designed to run under an Apache web server and was encoded as a series of PHP5 PEAR AJAX Ghostscript ImageMagick and HTML5 scripts applications and code. The web server in turn ran under the Linux operating system. The system stored and retrieved document images and data on a database under the control of MySQL database management software. A diagram of this configuration is shown in .

This first prototype system was called FrugalFax and this embodiment of the invention will occasionally be referred to in the alternative in this disclosure as the FrugalFax method or system.

As will be discussed other embodiments of the system disclosed in parent application Ser. No. 14 231 025 and 61 807 214 the complete contents of both of which were incorporated herein by reference implemented the invention s methods in the form of an ecommerce system more specifically an ecommerce system for ordering flowers that also allowed the ecommerce customers to create custom gift cards.

Users typically interact with the FrugalFax system by logging on from their local web browsers or apps running on their local computerized devices and . As is shown in these local computerized devices can be various types of devices including various devices such as computerized tablets e.g. iPad or Android tablets smart phones e.g. iPhone or Android smart phones desktop or laptop computers and the like. An example of a typical type of login screen which also discusses some of the invention s features is shown in .

As previously discussed one of the most commonly used document annotations is a signature. Although the user may sign each document on a one at a time basis by for example moving a mouse to draw a signature on the screen of the user s web browser often it will be more convenient to upload and store a signature on the signature web server that can be used multiple times. To do this the user can either upload an image of his or her signature or alternatively the system can capture the user s signature by mouse movements as is shown in . also discusses some of the invention s other features.

Often this signature capture is done during an initial user configuration and customization process. This configuration and customization process will also often prompt the user to enter in his or her Fax to Email provider email settings and other data as is shown in .

Once the system is configured the user may then use his or her web browser or app to direct the signature web server web server to process a particular document. In this example the user has directed the signature web server to use a copy of a document that is residing on the signature web server s local database . As can be seen the signature web server sends HTML data and other data to the user s web browser to create a local user interface that somewhat resembles the user interface of a common software drawing program . In this example the user is able to scroll or rotate through a view of multiple document pages at the same time and select one page as the present focus of interest and manipulation. This page is shown magnified as .

The web browser based user interface can provide buttons to manipulate the brightness and contrast of the original document image . Other buttons can be used to apply the signature image previously uploaded in . Still other buttons can do standard drawing commands e.g. lines squares move annotation elements zoom in zoom out add text draw freeform erase and these are shown in . In this example the user has used a drawing tool to make some scribbles on the document simply to illustrate that such an annotation is possible. Keep in mind that these scribbles are actually being stored in the image annotation layer in the remote signature web server are being merged by signature web server to create a combined annotated document image which is then being shown on the user s local web browser .

Assume for this example that the user has used the system s text annotation function to previously add text to the otherwise simple and passive image of a 1040EZ document. That is assume that this document is not otherwise capable of receiving text and that the user has used the text tool to create text in a text annotation layer on signature web server that corresponds to the user s tax status not shown . As a final step the user now wishes to sign the document using a previously uploaded signature.

To do this the user may first insert an image of the previously uploaded signature using the signature button and then manipulate the signature into the correct position using an appropriate move button and appropriate mouse movements or touch screen movements . This is shown in . The user may also rotate and resize i.e. enlarge shrink the signature image as needed to fit in the proper space.

Software flow charts showing one way to implement FrugalFax embodiment of the invention is shown in .

Thus by using the invention users can manage faxes and other documents using only a computerized device equipped with an Internet connection and a web browser. Preferably this web browser should have some or all of the functionality of modern HTML5 compliant browsers and . Suitable web browsers include popular browsers such as Safari Chrome Firefox Opera and IE9.

In some embodiments a user who also subscribes to fax to email services such as eFax MyFax Smartfax Faxaway and numerous others may download and view their fax messages in a standard web browser by way of the invention s signature web server .

Using the invention the user may perform functions such as rotating viewing and printing incoming faxes. The user may also comment on a fax or annotate a fax within the web browser using freehand drawing and text tools. The user may highlight sections of the fax with highlighting tools e.g. coloring an area with a transparent yellow color or alternatively redact sections e.g. coloring an area with a non transparent black or white color as needed. The user may also stamp his or her signatures date the document or write custom messages anywhere on the document.

Additionally the user may upload and fill any PDF or other type document form or other without the need for extra software. The user may share his or her faxes and documents with anyone. The user may also reply by Fax or Email directly from the same unified environment of the user s web browser. The user may also tag and archive save to database faxes for future retrieval from any web browser. Finally using the web browser and the internet the user may also access faxes from any geographical location.

Although in many embodiments the computer memory storing the various documents will reside on a web server and although the application software running on the computerized device will often be a web browser such as an HTML 5 capable web browser this need not always be the case. In alternative embodiments the computer memory storing the various documents may reside on other types of computer memory either local to the computerized device or alternatively connected via a remote telecommunications connection such as the Internet or other electronic data connection.

Automatic sorting of incoming document faxes Often various uses and businesses have a need to sort incoming faxes according to the identity of the original fax sender. For example in a medical practice some incoming faxes may come from a radiologist sender other faxes may come from a cardiologist sender and so on.

In some embodiments the system may examine either the incoming fax telephone numbers and or the fax Called Subscriber Identification CSID text string data and use the system processor to automatically compare this incoming fax data with a file e.g. a user defined database table or list of known fax sender identities. The system can then assign the incoming fax to this identity and either store the incoming fax in an appropriate identity linked file or file folder in memory or alternatively file this incoming fax in an appropriate identity linked entry in a database in memory.

An example of the user interface display from such an automatic fax filing system is shown in . Here a list of incoming faxes is shown in and a previously established list of folders each representing a different sender is shown in .

Splitting larger fax files into smaller messages The medical practice example previously discussed in is also serves as a good example to illustrate a second problem as well. Often fax senders send multiple unrelated documents as a single fax file. For example it is common for a medical practice to refer multiple patients to a particular radiologist or cardiologist and these particular radiologists and cardiologists in turn may often decide to send reports back on multiple patients as a single large fax transmission or file.

As a result often it is also useful to design the system so that the different portions of the larger incoming fax file which correspond to different fax reports from the different patients be easily split into smaller files which can then be filed or stored in a database separately.

Touch sensitive tablet embodiments In some embodiments the system may be implemented on a tablet computer exemplified by the popular Apple Computer iPad or on a Smartphone. Although such devices may use a web browser such as an HTML 5 capable web browser previously discussed to implement the method other programs may also be used. In particular it may be useful to create tablet or Smartphone specialized app versions of the software that although still HTML 5 capable will be customized to better make use of the unique aspects of tablet computer graphical user interface such as their multitouch capability and general use of fewer separate buttons and other user controls.

One such embodiment called the SecureSign application app was submitted by applicant and published on the Apple iTunes store on Apr. 4 2012. As applicant described this system 

 Ever find the need to sign a document and forward to someone else SecureSign allows access to PDF attachments received by email for annotation and signature. There is no limit to the number of documents that you can sign with this App. You can create custom stamps for frequently used phrases and for signatures. 

This tablet embodiment often operates by receiving documents as email attachments or from various web services. Once signed or otherwise annotated by the tablet computer user the annotated document may then be transmitted to its intended recipient by various means such as email attachments fax or to a web service adapter.

Thus the system allows the user to define various electronic rubber stamps for dates signatures text or other functions and then use the touch interface to apply the appropriate rubber stamp over the representation of the document on the screen.

In the user is setting the date for a date rubber stamp which will then be applied to the document in .

In some embodiments these methods may also be useful for allowing users such as ecommerce customers to create customized documents such as gift cards greeting cards and the like using remote ecommerce websites. Here the methods of parent application Ser. No. 14 231 025 METHOD FOR RAPID DEVELOPMENT OF SCHEDULE CONTROLED NETWORKABLE MERCHANT ECOMMERCE SITES the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference as well as application 61 807 214 the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference can be useful. In the following discussion note that present is closely relates to FIG. 46 of parent application Ser. No. 14 231 025.

As shown in in some embodiments the system can also enable the customer to optionally create customized gift cards intended to be delivered to the recipient along with the customer selected product s e.g. a bouquet of flowers with a custom gift card attached . Here the customer can for example design a gift card according to their own customized graphics uploaded images text and hand e.g. driven by the customer s mouse or finger movement on a touch sensitive screen written drawings script and lettering. This may be implemented by the computer methods and tools discussed herein.

In this ecommerce embodiment when the customer then purchases the product and the associated gift card the system can be configured to direct the delivery merchant to print out this handmade customer generated card and deliver it to the recipient along with the product gift.

Easy customer gift card customization Here the document customization methods disclosed herein can be quite valuable for certain ecommerce functions such as gifts. This is because often a gift recipient values the thought i.e. affection good intentions behind a gift as much or more than the gift itself.

In this regards however present industry practice of only providing standardized gift card designs even if customized lettering may be allowed somewhat defeats this purpose. The methods disclosed herein however can also be used to provide an easy to use user interface that allows the purchaser of a gift to custom design the art behind the gift cards delivered with the gifts. This in turn provides tangible evidence of the purchaser s thought behind the gift to the recipient. This in turn can further enhance the mutual satisfaction of both the gift giver and recipient. See for further discussion.

In some embodiments the gift card interface will appear only after the ecommerce customer has made a product selection but before the final purchase is done. If the customer elects the gift card option which will often cost extra the system outputs a gift card generation interface to the ecommerce computerized device often to a web browser .

Returning to the gift card generation interface appearing on the ecommerce customer s computerized device is shown as . As can be seen this gift card generation interface is configured to allow the customer to select various gift card template images or graphic images over the internet using a computerized device running a web browser or app enter text to be rendered using various text fonts as well as sketch drawings or handwriting on the card using a mouse touch sensitive interface or the like. The output from this creation process can be an electronic gift card file which can be transmitted back to either server M and or centralized server often assisted by software . Thus once the customer purchases the product this electronic gift card file can be transmitted to a printer associated with the product s shipping location in this example this can even be a printer associated with another merchant 2 operating a different but cooperating server M .

This printer can them print out the actual hard copy gift card . The system can also instruct the delivery merchant here Merchant 2 for example to then bundle this card with the purchased product and deliver both to the recipient at the same time and location. Thus for example the recipient can get a nice bouquet of flowers with an attached customized greeting card. Unlike the flowers which will quickly fade the card can last forever and will be more highly valued because it is customized.

In this embodiment the gift card generation interface can be configured to load one or more previously stored gift card template images on a remote server e.g. M thus creating an image layer and to then transmit an HTML copy of this image layer to the customer s web browser or app. There the customer can view this image layer and use their web browser or app to both annotate the images as well as to transmit an HTML copy of these annotations to the remote server.

The remote server can then use these annotations to create at least one annotation layer and combine this with the image layer thus creating an annotated gift card document image. This annotated gift card document image can then be transmitted back to the customer where they can accept or modify this annotated gift card document image. Once accepted this image can then be transmitted to the printer in the form of an electronic gift card file or other electronic data format.

Alternatively in some embodiments either instead of or in addition to printing out a physical hard copy of the gift card the system can also send an electronic version of the gift card to the recipient or other individuals for example in the form of email.

Thus in this embodiment the invention may be a method of using at least one processor to configure at least one ecommerce website to provide a gift card generation interface to create electronic gift card data files associated with a product selected by an ecommerce customer. Here usually various gift card templates images graphic images and text fonts will often be pre loaded on a database such as a centralized database or other server database for ecommerce user convenience.

In this embodiment the server will often be configured to provide web browser or app based administrator control panel often an administrator web page that allows a system administrator such as the merchant responsible for the ecommerce website to upload additional gift card template images or graphic images to the centralized database as desired.

Thus when an ecommerce customer interacts with an ecommerce website e.g. M and makes at least one product purchase e.g. for using an ecommerce customer web browser or app often after the purchase s are done the system e.g. server Mia or can be configured to transmit a gift card generation interface to the ecommerce user s web browser or app. This can be in the form of a web page or other app configuration instructions.

This gift card generation interface can be configured to allow the ecommerce customer to select among various gift card template images or graphic images or enter text to be rendered using various text fonts and thus enable the customer to generate an electronic gift card file which can then be received stored and retransmitted according to the processor software.

In a typical configuration after the ecommerce customer purchases the one or more products at least one processor often located on server M or can be used to transmit this electronic gift card file to a printer . In a preferred embodiment this printer will be associated with the product shipping location in this example merchant 2 is shipping the product . The printer can then print out a gift card corresponding to this electronic gift card file. In a preferred embodiment the system will also provide instructions to the shipper here Merchant 2 to bundle the gift card with the product for subsequent delivery at the requested delivery location here the address of recipient .

In a preferred embodiment the gift card generation interface is configured to direct at least one processor often located in server Mia or to load previously stored gift card template images often stored in database on either a centralized server or an ecommerce website web server e.g. M as well as to create an image layer and transmitting an HTML copy of this image layer to the ecommerce customer web browser or app . There the customer can view the image layer and use his or her web browser or app to annotate the images as previously discussed. An HTML copy of these annotations can then be transmitted to either a centralized server or ecommerce website web server M .

There using the previously described methods these annotations can be used to create at least one annotation layer. The server or servers can then combine this at least one annotation layer with the image layer producing an annotated gift card document image. As before the system can then transmit an HTML copy of this annotated gift card document image to the ecommerce customer web browser or app . The customer or other user can use this web browser or app to accept the annotated gift card document image. The system can then use at least one processor again often located in server or server M to transmit this annotated gift card document image usually in the form of an electronic gift card file or other data format to a printer associated preferably associated with the shipping location of the customer s product.

