---

title: Service-oriented multifunction devices
abstract: The present disclosure provides systems and methods for operating a multifunction device in communication with multiple devices. The multifunction device is configured to receive an operation request and an electronic document from a first device. The multifunction device is further configured to receive document manipulation data from a second device. The multifunction device is also configured to manipulate the electronic document using the document manipulation data based on the operation request. The multifunction device communicates the manipulated electronic document to a third device. The second device is isolated from the third device and the first device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137420&OS=09137420&RS=09137420
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09137420
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140417
---
The presently disclosed subject matter relates to multifunction devices and more particularly to multifunction devices providing document management services.

Business workflows may require that a certain document be accessed or manipulated by multiple users. One workflow involves encryption or decryption of the document by a cryptographic application to maintain confidentiality and security of document data. The cryptographic application may be installed on one or more end devices for each user thereby increasing infrastructure and maintenance costs for the cryptographic application. Another workflow involves embedding one or more electronic signatures in the document by a signing application. The document is often shared with different users for example via an email for embedding multiple signatures in the document. However the confidentiality of the document is compromised if the document is erroneously or inadvertently sent to an unintended recipient.

It may therefore be beneficial to provide a robust and or economical approach to enhance security and or confidentiality of documents such as in a multi user environment.

One exemplary embodiment includes a system for manipulating an electronic document. The system is for use with multiple user devices. The system includes a multifunction device an input device and a user device. The input device is configured to communicate document manipulation data to the multifunction device. The user device is configured to communicate an operation request and an electronic document to the multifunction device. The user device is not in communication with the input device. The multifunction device is configured to receive the operation request the electronic document and the document manipulation data. The multifunction device is further configured to manipulate the electronic document using the document manipulation data based on the operation request.

Another exemplary embodiment includes a method for operating a multifunction device in communication with multiple devices. The method includes receiving an operation request and an electronic document from a first device. The method also includes receiving document manipulation data from a second device. The method further includes manipulating the electronic document using the document manipulation data based on the operation request. The method furthermore includes communicating the manipulated electronic document to a third device. The second device is isolated from the third device and the first device.

Other and further aspects and features of the disclosure will be evident from reading the following detailed description of the embodiments which are intended to illustrate not limit the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure definitions of one or more terms that will be used in the document are provided below.

A document is a written record having a single page or multiple pages. Each page may include data such as text images multimedia content biometric content or a combination thereof. The document may refer to a physical document or an electronic document without any limitation.

A user is an individual or an entity who communicates with one or more modules loaded or integrated with an electronic device capable of or configured to perform a specific function. The entity may include organizations such as professional services organizations product manufacturing organizations finance management organizations real estate organizations and so on that deal with one or more documents.

A user device is used in the present disclosure in the context of its broadest definition. The user device may refer to a networked computing device capable of handling electronic documents and may host various applications to request services from other devices connected to the network. Various examples of the user device include a desktop PC a personal digital assistant PDA a server a mainframe computer a mobile computing device e.g. mobile phones laptops etc. an internet appliance etc.

A workflow refers to a set of activities generally performed by the user independently or in association with one or more computing devices to avail customize or offer different products or services. For example a workflow for visa services may involve filling out forms submitting one or more documents making an appointment etc.

 Document manipulation data is used in the present disclosure in the context of its broadest definition. The document manipulation data refers to data that modifies content or workflows associated with the document.

A multifunction device includes a single device that performs traditionally multiple separate functionalities such as printing scanning copying and faxing the document. The multifunction device may participate in a network and communicate with various devices users entities or any combination thereof.

An operation request is used in the present disclosure in the context of its broadest definition. The operation request refers to a request directed to execution or initiation of a specific task.

The numerous references in the disclosure to a service oriented multifunction device are intended to cover any and or all devices capable of performing respective operations on the person in a customer interacting environment relevant to the applicable context regardless of whether or not the same are specifically provided.

A first aspect of the present disclosure focuses on simplifying the process of executing documents transmitted electronically. In the related art a user receives an electronic document prints the document executes the document scans the document and then encrypts the scanned document and sends it to a recipient which requires multiple steps and is therefore cumbersome. The inventive concept involves the user selecting a certain mode e.g. document approval and forward option on an end device via a user interface such that the mode is pursuant to a print command the document is then held at a multifunction device without printing enabling the user to go to the multifunction device authenticate the user s identity and pull the document from a queue e.g. print queue at the multifunction device. The user can access the pulled document and select the page for execution. The user can then either electronically apply the signature to the document or execute the document on the screen of the multifunction device using a stylus pen.

A second aspect of the present disclosure focuses on simplifying encryption decryption such as by enhancing the related art techniques involving authenticated software and card readers. The inventive concept provides a multifunction device with an encryption decryption feature. Software is used to submit a document with a key and a type of encryption decryption that the user wants to use. The multifunction device performs the encryption decryption based on the request and sends the document to its destination. This operation can be performed in two ways. First the user submits the job with the key and algorithm to the multi function device using an encrypted protocol and the multi function device would perform the encryption decryption accordingly. Alternatively the document is submitted to the multifunction device and the user selects an option where the key is to be taken from the user s smart card. Similarly to the first aspect the document is held at the multifunction device and particularly held until the user goes to the multifunction device and enters a pin. The user then needs to flash the user s smart card at the reader and the multifunction device uses the key stored in the smart card to encrypt the document and the encrypted document is then sent to its destination. When the encrypted document is to be decrypted the encrypted document is sent to the multifunction device for decryption using a predefined or user specified decryption key and decryption algorithm.

In one embodiment each of the sender device and the receiver device may include an interface module not shown such as a client application a device driver e.g. a print driver etc. which integrates at least one of the sender device and the receiver device with the SMD workflows for example a scan workflow a print workflow a fax workflow etc. The sender device or the receiver device may submit one or more electronic documents to the SMD using the interface module over the network for performing intended operation on the electronic documents. In another embodiment the SMD may be configured to scan physical documents for converting them into electronic documents which may be stored at the SMD .

Embodiments of the SMD are configured to provide various operations as services to a wide variety of devices such as the sender device and the receiver device connected to the network . Examples of these operations include encrypting the electronic documents decrypting the electronic documents that are encrypted and embedding one or more digital signatures on the electronic documents. The SMD may be implemented as a standalone and dedicated black box including hardware and installed software where the hardware is closely matched to the requirements and or functionality of the software. The SMD may enhance or increase the functionality and or capacity of the network to which it is connected. The SMD may be configured for example to perform e mail tasks security tasks network management tasks including IP address management and other tasks. In some embodiments the SMD is configured to expose its operating system or operating code to an end user and may include related art I O devices such as a keyboard or display. The SMD of some embodiments may however include software firmware or other resources that support remote administration and or maintenance of the SMD .

The SMD may be configured to communicate with one or more input devices such as an input device . Examples of the input device include but are not limited to a smartcard a microphone a stylus pen a keyboard a camera etc. The SMD may communicate with the input device through various interfaces including software interfaces for example an application programming interface a graphical user interface GUI etc. hardware interfaces for example cable connectors a biometric scanner a card reader an interactive display screen a scanning platen etc. or both. The interface s may facilitate 1 receiving the electronic documents user identification data e.g. PIN and document manipulation data e.g. a unique private key a digital signature etc. 2 converting the physical documents into electronic documents and 3 transmitting manipulated documents to at least one of the sender device or the receiver device .

In one embodiment the SMD may be configured to receive the document manipulation data from the input device which may be used in association with another input device for interacting with the SMD via the SMD interfaces. For example a smartcard or a stylus pen may be used in association with another input device such as a keyboard for entering a personal identification number PIN to authenticate the smartcard or the stylus or a corresponding user to the SMD .

The SMD may be configured to operate with at least one processor not shown executing machine readable program instructions for implementing cryptographic algorithms and digital signatures as a service for manipulating the electronic documents. The processor may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor is configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions in the memory not shown of SMD or other devices connected to the SMD .

The SMD may include in whole or in part a software application working alone or in conjunction with one or more hardware resources. Such software applications may be executed by the processor on different hardware platforms or emulated in a virtual environment. Aspects of the SMD may leverage off the shelf software available in the art related art or developed later.

The SMD may be configured to store different types of data such as the document manipulation data for manipulating the electronic documents. The SMD may also store the electronic documents at least until the electronic documents are manipulated based on an operation request. The SMD may communicate with a storage server for example a file server used in a network attached storage NAS mode a block based storage server such as used in a storage area network SAN or other type of storage server for storing at least one of the document manipulation data and the electronic documents. Examples of the document manipulation data include but are not limited to digital signatures cryptographic algorithms cryptographic keys and other relevant data that may be used for manipulating the electronic documents. Optionally the digital signatures may include metadata such as a hash value to perform user authentication and maintain document integrity. Cryptographic algorithms may include various encryption decryption algorithms and digital signature algorithms for example data encryption standard DES advanced encryption standard AES SHA3 512 ANSI X9.31 Triple DES international data encryption algorithm IDEA RSA ElGamal secure hashing algorithms e.g. MD5 FIPS 186 4 FIPS 180 2 or any other known in the art related art or later developed algorithms. The digital signatures may include an image a text a multimedia content biometric data or a combination thereof.

The SMD may also be configured to receive the electronic documents and the document manipulation data for manipulating the received electronic documents based on an operation request that may be received via various channels. In a first example the SMD may receive the operation request such as for encrypting the electronic document through a user interface associated with the SMD . In a second example the SMD may receive the operation request from at least one of the sender device the receiver device or the input device such as a smartcard. In a third example the SMD may be preconfigured with the operation request to perform a predefined operation on the received electronic documents.

In one embodiment the SMD may receive 1 the electronic documents from at least one of the sender device and the receiver device and 2 the document manipulation data such as a unique private key and the digital signature from the input device . The unique private key may include numeric data alphanumeric data special characters an audio signal a video signal biometric data or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the unique private key may be generated by the SMD processor based on inputs received via the input device . Examples of such inputs include but are not limited to content type of the received electronic document content size of the electronic document an audio signal for e.g. a user voice a video signal e.g. a user video a biometric signal e.g. a user fingerprint or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the digital signature may be received the SMD using the stylus pen via the user interface of the SMD . However other embodiments may involve the SMD retrieving a stored digital signature after user authentication is performed based on the received unique private key.

The SMD may be configured to perform at least one of the following operations namely encrypt the electronic documents decrypt the electronic documents that are encrypted and embed the digital signature on the electronic documents using the unique private key based on a cryptographic algorithm such as those mentioned above. In one example the user may select the electronic document and the cryptographic algorithm stored in the SMD send the operation request to the SMD for encrypting the selected electronic document and provide the unique private key. Based on the operation request the SMD may access the selected electronic document and encrypt it using the received unique private key according to the selected cryptographic algorithm to generate an encrypted electronic document. Other examples may involve the SMD generating manipulated electronic documents including at least one of the encrypted electronic documents the decrypted electronic documents and the signed electronic documents embedded with one or more digital signatures in a multi user environment based on the operation request. In some embodiments the SMD may be configured to store the manipulated documents until an operation request is received for a next operation to be performed on the manipulated documents. However other embodiments may involve the SMD being configured to automatically transmit the manipulated documents to the receiver device over the network . For this the SMD may receive a destination address for example an email address IP address a uniform resource locator URL address etc. corresponding to the receiver device for transmitting the manipulated documents to that address. The destination address may be received from the sender device or the input device e.g. a smartcard or directly at the SMD via the associated user interfaces. Optionally the destination address may be predefined in the SMD .

The order in which the workflows are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described workflow steps can be combined or otherwise performed in any order to implement the workflows or alternate workflows. Additionally individual steps may be deleted from the workflows without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure described herein. Furthermore the workflows can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof that exists in the related art or that is later developed.

The workflows describe without limitation implementation of the multifunction device as an exemplary service provider in a network environment. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the workflows may be modified appropriately for implementation in a variety of various business scenarios including those related to medical services hospitality retail banking services and so on without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

In a first embodiment a first user may interact with the sender device for submitting an electronic document and an operation request for encrypting the electronic document to the s module . In a second embodiment the first user may scan the physical documents by the SMD for converting them into electronic documents which are stored in the SMD however the first user may submit the operation request to the s module at the sender device via a suitable interface such as those mentioned above. The s module may also receive the document manipulation data including 1 a destination address 2 an instance of the encryption key to be used for encrypting a selected electronic document and a unique encryption key at the SMD from the first user . In some embodiments the first user may submit the document manipulation data directly to the SMD using the input device such as those mentioned above.

At step B the s module at the sender device may transmit the electronic document the operation request and the document manipulation data to the SMD . In some embodiments the s module may be configured to intermediately encrypt the electronic document using various encryption protocols known in the art related art or later developed for maintaining security of the electronic document during transmission to the SMD over the network .

At step C the SMD receives the electronic document the operation request and the document manipulation data from at least one of the sender device and the input device . The SMD may be configured to encrypt the received electronic document based on the encryption algorithm that may be specified by the first user in the document manipulation data. The SMD retrieves the specified encryption algorithm from the stored cryptographic algorithms and employs it to encrypt the electronic document using the received encryption key for generating an encrypted electronic document. Some embodiments in which the SMD receives the intermediately encrypted electronic document the SMD may be configured to decrypt the electronic document before encrypting the electronic document based on the user specified encryption algorithm.

At step D the encrypted electronic document is sent to the receiver device . The SMD may be configured to send the encrypted electronic document to the destination address corresponding to the receiver device . The destination address may be received by the SMD from the sender device via the s module or from the input device such as the smartcard directly at the SMD . The SMD may transmit the encrypted electronic document for example as an email attachment to the receiver device over the network .

Steps E to H refer to a workflow for decrypting the encrypted electronic document using the SMD . At step E a second user may submit an operation request the encrypted electronic document and document manipulation data to the receiver device . In this case the document manipulation data may include but are not limited to a decryption key a decryption algorithm and a destination address. The receiver device may include a receiver interface module r module e.g. a client application a print driver etc. which may be similar to the s module . The r module may be configured to communicate with the SMD over the network and integrate the receiver device with the SMD workflows such as a print workflow a scan workflow etc.

In one embodiment the second user may interact with the receiver device for submitting the encrypted electronic document and the operation request for decrypting the encrypted electronic document to the r module . Additionally the second user may submit at least one of the document manipulation data namely 1 the destination address 2 an instance of the decryption algorithm to be used for decrypting the encrypted electronic document and 3 a unique decryption key to the r module . In another embodiment the second user may submit the document manipulation data directly to the SMD using the input device such as those mentioned above associated with the SMD .

At step F the r module transmits the encrypted electronic document the operation request and the document manipulation data to the SMD over the network . At step G the SMD receives the encrypted electronic document the operation request and the document manipulation data from at least one of the receiver device and the input device . The SMD is configured to decrypt the received encrypted electronic document based on the decryption algorithm specified in the received document manipulation data. The SMD retrieves the specified decryption algorithm from the stored cryptographic algorithms and applies the retrieved algorithm to the encrypted electronic document using the received decryption key for decryption to generate a decrypted electronic document.

At step H the decrypted electronic document is sent to the receiver device . The SMD is configured to send the decrypted electronic document to the destination address corresponding to the receiver device or any other device connected to the network . The destination address may be received by the SMD from the receiver device via the r module or from the input device such as the smartcard directly at the SMD . Some embodiments may include the destination address being preconfigured into the SMD . The SMD may transmit the decrypted electronic document for example as an email attachment to the destination address over the network .

At step F the SMD may create a digital image of the entered user signature and place that digital signature along with a digital image at the selected page and position on the electronic document. The digital signature is placed based on a preselected or dynamically selected digital signature algorithm that is stored in the SMD . The SMD is configured to apply a predefined or the selected digital signature algorithm for embedding the digital signature on the electronic document and generate a signed electronic document. At step G the user may operate the input device to communicate with the SMD via an interface at the SMD for example the user may swipe a smartcard against a card reader at the SMD . The input device may store document manipulation data such as a unique private key and a reference to the encryption algorithm that are to be used and selected respectively for encrypting the signed electronic document. At step H the SMD may encrypt the signed electronic document using the unique private key based on the encryption algorithm referred in the input device to generate an encrypted signed document. At step I the SMD may transmit the encrypted signed document to the destination address corresponding to the receiver device or any other device connected to the network . The destination address may be received by the SMD from at least one of the sender device the input device and the user entering the destination address directly at the SMD via the user interface. Steps A G may be repeated with multiple users for embedding multiple digital signatures on the electronic document at the SMD without needing to print the electronic document however the SMD may be configured to perform the steps H and I optionally.

At step C the SMD scans the electronic form for pre scan data including but are not limited to the signature of the user a barcode etc. that are filled up in various fields of the electronic form by the user . The SMD is configured to extract the filled up signature from the scanned electronic form and to convert the signature or other pre scan data into a digital image of the signature hereinafter referred to as a digital signature . The SMD may be further configured to use the scanned pre scan data for generating binary data that may be used for generating a hash value for the digital signature. At step D the SMD is configured to associate the generated hash value with the digital signature and stores both of them together in a secure folder located at the SMD or an associated storage server including those mentioned above. The secure folder may be accessed by the user via a secure PIN or other data stored in the input device such as the smartcard. At step E the user may select an electronic document at the sender device for embedding one or more digital signatures on the selected electronic document which may be submitted to the s module for being transmitted to the SMD .

At step F the electronic document is received and stored in the SMD until the user sends a request to the SMD for manipulating the stored electronic document. In one embodiment the user may send the request to the SMD at the SMD via a suitable user interface such as those mentioned above. At step G the user may access the stored electronic document on the user interface of the SMD and marks a page and a position on the electronic document where the digital signature is to be placed. In order to perform such marking the intended page and position of the electronic document may be accessed on the SMD user interface or the SMD may be configured to display on the SMD user interface a list of pages and positions that may be selected by the user for embedding the digital signature on the electronic document.

At step H the user may access the secure folder where the digital signature is located by entering the PIN on the user interface of the SMD via the input device such as a keyboard a microphone etc. The PIN may be numeric alphanumeric audio video biometric or any combination thereof in nature. In the secure folder the user may select a digital signature to be embedded on the electronic document. In some embodiments the digital signature may be stored on the input device such as a smart card. The user may operate the input device to communicate the stored digital signature to the SMD where the digital signature may be received and selected for being embedded on the electronic document. At step I the SMD places the selected digital signature on the accessed or selected page and position of the electronic document based on a preselected or dynamically selected algorithm for example the hashing algorithm stored in the SMD . In one embodiment the SMD is configured to compute a hash value of the document content including the digital signature. The computed hash value along with the hashing algorithm may also be placed with the digital signature on the electronic document to generate a signed electronic document. Optionally the SMD may compare the computed hash value with the hash data that was stored with the digital signature in the secure folder at the SMD . The SMD confirms document integrity when the computed hash value is equivalent to the hash data for generating a signature certificate that may be integrated with the embedded digital signature to indicate authenticity of the digital signature.

At step J the user may operate the input device to communicate with the SMD for example by swiping the smartcard against the card reader at the SMD . The input device may include a unique private key and a reference to the encryption algorithm that are to be used and selected respectively for encrypting the signed electronic document. At step K the SMD may encrypt the signed electronic document using the unique private key based on the encryption algorithm referred to in the input device for generating an encrypted signed document. At step L the SMD may transmit the encrypted signed document to the destination address corresponding to the receiver device . The destination address may be received by the SMD from at least one of the sender device the input device and the user entering the destination address directly at the SMD via the SMD user interface. In some embodiments the destination address may be preconfigured into the SMD . Steps A to I may be repeated with multiple users for embedding multiple digital signatures on a single or multiple electronic documents at the SMD without needing to print the electronic document. The encrypted signed electronic document may be decrypted by following the steps E H of the workflow discussed above.

Unlike traditional systems embodiments of the present disclosure include the electronic documents and the document manipulation data being located on separate devices which are isolated from each other. For example the electronic documents may be located on a user device e.g. the sender device and the receiver device and the document manipulation data may be located on the input device which is not in communication with the user device. Such isolation prevents the document manipulation data from being inadvertently or erroneously exchanged with or accessed without authorization by the user device for manipulating the electronic documents.

The aforementioned operations and related operational workflows are exemplary in nature and should not be construed as functional limitations of the SMD . The SMD may be configured to perform similar or other operations on the electronic documents as well as the physical documents independently or in association with other devices or modules without any limitation.

The above description does not provide specific details of manufacture or design of the various components. Those of ordinary skill in the art are familiar with such details and unless departures from those techniques are set out techniques known related art or later developed designs and materials should be employed. Those in the art are capable of choosing suitable manufacturing and design details.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into other systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may subsequently be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as encompassed by the following claims.

