---

title: Load balancing in cloud-based networks
abstract: A record of computing resources for a cloud computing environment and an additional cloud computing environment may be maintained. Available computing resources in the cloud computing environment and the additional cloud computing environment may be determinable from the record of computing resources. A request to instantiate a virtual machine in the cloud computing environment may be received. The virtual machine may be instantiated in the additional cloud computing environment in response to determining that the cloud computing environment lacks the available computing resources and inactive reserve resources to support the virtual machine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363198&OS=09363198&RS=09363198
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09363198
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140911
---
This continuation application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 127 926 filed on May 28 2008 and is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

To instantiate the virtual machine the resources of the cloud must be allocated to support the virtual machine. Currently the cloud architecture lacks the capability to allocate the resources properly and efficiently in order to maximize the usage of the resources. Also the cloud architecture lacks the ability to scale the resources in the event the cloud lacks the necessary resources to support the virtual machine. Thus there is a need in the art for methods and systems that provide load balancing and scaling in a cloud computing environment.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and service portals and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes can be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for managing the resources in a cloud computing environment. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud management system can enable load balancing and scaling in order to maximize the cloud s resources.

According to embodiments in general a cloud management system can be configured to monitor and allocate resources of a cloud computing environment. A cloud computing environment can include a set of resource servers configured to deliver processor cycles operating systems or components thereof applications input output bandwidth or other computing resources.

According to embodiments to monitor and allocate the resources the cloud management system can be configured to maintain a resource record. The resource record can include information such as overall computing resources of the cloud processor cycles bandwidth memory storage computing resources of individual servers overall available computing resources available resources for individual servers and virtual machines instantiated in the cloud. The cloud management system can also be configured to maintain resource records for external cloud computing environments.

According to embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to receive a request to instantiate a virtual machine. In order to instantiate the virtual machine the cloud management system can be configured to determine the current resource usage and available resources of the cloud in order to allocate resources to the requested virtual machine. The cloud management system can be configured to determine the current resource usage and available resources by examining the resource record.

According to embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to allocate the available resources based on several factors in order to maximize resource usage in the cloud. The factors can include utilizing resources currently available utilizing resources in the servers with high available resources evenly distributing resource usage across the servers and instantiating virtual machines in the server containing resources best suited to support the virtual machine. Additionally the cloud management system can be configured to relocate current usage to accommodate a requested virtual machine to maximize resource usage.

According to embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to scale the resources of the cloud in the event that resources are not available for a requested virtual machine. To scale the cloud the cloud management system can be configured to communicate with reserve resource servers. The reserve resource servers can be maintained inactive until needed in the cloud. Once the cloud management system determines that additional resources are need the cloud management system can be configured to activate the reserve resource servers and add their resources to the pool of available resources.

Additionally according to embodiments if the cloud lacks necessary resources to support a requested virtual machine the cloud management system can be configured to determine the available resources of external clouds. If external clouds are available the cloud management system can request instantiation of the virtual machine in the external clouds.

By performing load balancing and scaling the cloud management system can efficiently allocate the resources of the cloud at the time of virtual machine requests. As such the cloud can provide a consistent and stable computing environment without interrupts due to resource shortages.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to monitor and allocate the resources of the sets of resource servers . To monitor and allocate the resources the management engine can be configured to maintain a resource record in cloud management store . The resource record can include fields for storing information such as overall computing resources of the cloud processor cycles bandwidth memory storage computing resources of individual servers overall available computing resources available resources for individual servers and virtual machines instantiated in the cloud.

In embodiments the cloud management system can also be configured to communicate with external clouds and maintain resource records for external clouds in cloud management store . For example the management engine can request a record for the resources of external clouds from the cloud management systems of the external clouds . Likewise the management engine can be configured to communicate directly with the resource servers of external cloud .

In embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to receive a request to instantiate a virtual machine from a user . The management engine can be configured to communicate with the user via an interface over network . The interface can be any type of interface to allow the user to communicate information to the cloud management system . For example the interface can be a specific graphical command line or other interface generated by a program or application designed to communicate with the cloud management system . Likewise the interface can be an interface generated in conventional formats such as .html capable of being executed in network programs and applications such as a web browser.

In embodiments to instantiate the virtual machine the cloud management system can be configured to determine the current resource usage and available resources of the cloud in order to allocate resources to the requested virtual machine. In particular the management engine can be configured to retrieve the resource record from cloud management store and to determine the current resource usage and available resources by examining the resource record .

In embodiments once resources are determined the cloud management system can be configured to allocate the available resources based on several factors in order to maximize resource usage in the cloud . The management engine can include algorithms to select the sets of resource servers based on such factors as utilizing resources currently available utilizing resources in the servers with high available resources evenly distributing resource usage across the servers and instantiating virtual machines in the server containing resources best suited to support the virtual machine. Additionally the cloud management system can be configured to relocate current usage to accommodate a requested virtual machine to maximize resource usage.

In embodiments the cloud management system can be configured to scale the resources of the cloud in the event that resources are not available for a requested virtual machine. To scale the cloud the management engine can be configured to communicate with reserve resource servers . The reserve resource servers can be maintained inactive until needed in the cloud . In particular once the cloud management system determines that additional resources are need e.g. new virtual machine requested the management engine can be configured to activate one or more of the reserve resource servers and add their resources to the pool of available resources. The management engine can add a new entry in resource record to reflect the activation of a reserve resource server .

In embodiments if the cloud lacks necessary resources to support a requested virtual machine the cloud management system can be configured to determine the available resources of external clouds . For example the management engine can determine if a resource record exists for an external cloud in cloud management store . The management engine can determine whether available resources exist by examining the resource record . If external clouds are available the cloud management system can request instantiation of the virtual machine in the external clouds .

In the cloud management system can receive a request from a customer administrator or other user to instantiate virtual machines or other resources in cloud . In the cloud management system can determine if the cloud has the available resources to support the virtual machines. In order to instantiate the virtual machine the cloud management system can determine the current resource usage and available resources of the cloud in order to allocate resources to the requested virtual machine. The cloud management system can determine the current resource usage and available resources by examining the resource record.

If resources are not available in the cloud management system can determine if reserve resources are available. If available in the cloud management system can scale the cloud by activating the reserve resource servers and add the resources to the pool of available resources. The cloud management system can add the reserve resources to the resource record. Then in the cloud management system can allocate the resources and instantiate the virtual machines. The cloud management system can allocate the available resources based on several factors in order to maximize resource usage in the cloud. The factors can include utilizing resources currently available utilizing resources in the servers with high available resources evenly distributing resource usage across the servers and instantiating virtual machines in the server containing resources best suited to support the virtual machine. Additionally the cloud management system can relocate current usage to accommodate a requested virtual machine to maximize resource usage.

If the cloud lacks necessary resources to support a requested virtual machine in the cloud management system can be configured to determine the available resources of external clouds. If external clouds are available the cloud management system can request instantiation of the virtual machines in the external clouds.

Then in if the cloud processes terminate the process can end but the process can return to any point and repeat.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

