---

title: Memory with specific driving mechanism applied on source line
abstract: An embodiment of the invention provides a memory. The memory includes a plurality of word lines, a plurality of bit lines, a plurality of source lines and a memory cell array. The memory cell array has a plurality of memory cells disposed at the intersections of the word and bit lines to form a matrix of rows and columns, wherein each memory cell comprises a resistive memory device and a transistor. The source lines are each disposed between two word lines, wherein each source line is coupled to source terminals of the transistors. When a RESET operation is applied to a selected memory cell, the voltage level of the source line is pulled up to a first voltage level, and when another operation is applied to the selected memory cell, the source line is grounded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09263127&OS=09263127&RS=09263127
owner: Winbond Electronics Corp.
number: 09263127
owner_city: Taichung
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140812
---
The present invention relates to resistance random access memory and more particularly to a resistance random access memory array structure.

With the growth in the use of portable electronic devices the demand for non volatile memory has increased. Among the various kinds of non volatile memory resistance random access memory is the most competitive next generation non volatile memory due to its higher speed lower power consumption higher capacity reliability easier process integration and lower cost. By inputting specific operation voltage the character of the material applied to the resistance random access memory ReRAM can change quickly between two states. SET and RESET operations are mainly achieved by inputting two different operation voltages to the resistance random access memory to switch the resistance random access between a high resistance state and a low resistance state. Based on the process described above the logic state of the resistance random access memory can be switched by inputting different operation voltage enabling data storage.

An embodiment of the invention provides a memory structure. The memory includes a plurality of word lines a plurality of bit lines a plurality of source lines and a memory cell array. The memory cell array has a plurality of memory cells disposed at the intersections of the word and bit lines to form a matrix of rows and columns wherein each memory cell comprises a resistive memory device and a transistor. The source lines are each disposed between two word lines wherein each source line is coupled to source terminals of the transistors. Each source line is driven by a source line driver and the source line driver receives a command signal and an address signal and pulls up the source line to the first voltage level according to the command signal and the address signal. When a RESET operation is applied to a selected memory cell the voltage level of the source line is pulled up to a first voltage level and when another operation is applied to the selected memory cell the source line is grounded.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a memory. The memory includes a plurality of word lines a plurality of bit lines a plurality of source lines and a memory cell array. The memory cell array has a plurality of memory cells disposed at the intersections of the word and bit lines to form a matrix of rows and columns wherein each memory cell comprises a resistive memory device and a transistor. The source lines are disposed in the memory cell array wherein each source line is shared by two successive word lines. Each source line is driven by a source line driver and the source line driver receives a command signal and an address signal and pulls up the source line to the first voltage level according to the command signal and the address signal. When a RESET operation is applied to a selected memory cell the voltage level of the source line is pulled up to a first voltage level and when another operation is applied to the selected memory cell the source line is grounded.

A detailed description is given in the following embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The following description is of the best contemplated mode of carrying out the invention. This description is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention and should not be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the invention is best determined by reference to the appended claims.

When logic 1 is written to the ReRAM cell the SET operation is executed. When logic 0 is written to the ReRAM cell the RESET operation is executed. In this embodiment the ReRAM cell stores data with two logic levels but the invention is not limited thereto. The ReRAM cell stores data with more than two logic levels according to the resistance range among the high resistance value corresponding to a SET operation and the low resistance value corresponding to a RESET operation.

Data stored in the ReRAM cell can be read via a sense amplifier which is coupled to the bit line BL. The data is determined by sensing the current flowing through the bit line. The sensing current varies according to the resistance of the ReRAM cell . For example when the ReRAM cell is in a SET state the resistance of the ReRAM cell is relatively high and the magnitude of the sensing current is relatively small. When the ReRAM cell is in a RESET state the resistance of the ReRAM cell is relatively low and the magnitude of the sensing current is relatively large. According to the phenomenon the sense amplifier compares the sensing current with a reference current to read data stored in the ReRAM cell .

When logic 0 data is written to the cell the RESET operation is executed. The voltage setting for the RESET operation is shown in . The bit line BL is grounded. The voltage on the word line WL coupled to the gate of the transistor T is pulled up to 4V and the voltage on the source line SL coupled to the source of the transistor T is pulled up to 2V. When logic 1 data is written to the cell the SET operation is executed. The voltage setting for the SET operation is shown in . The bit line BL is pulled to 1.4V the voltage on the word line WL coupled to the gate of the transistor T is pulled up to 2.3V and the voltage on the source line SL coupled to the source of the transistor T is grounded.

When reading data stored in the cell the voltage setting for the read operation is shown in . The voltage on the source line SL coupled to the source of the transistor T is grounded the voltage on the word line WL coupled to the gate of the transistor T is pulled up to 3V and the data is read by sensing the voltage on the bit line BL .

According to the voltage setting for different operations described above the voltage on the word line and bit line may be changed among 3 different voltage levels. For conventional memory array architecture the control scheme has difficulty handling many different voltage levels.

The memory cell is coupled between the bit line BL which is driven by a bit line driver and a drain of the transistor T. The gate of the transistor T is coupled to a word line WL which is driven by a word line driver . The source of the transistor T is coupled to a source line SL which is driven by a source driver . By using the word driver the bit line driver and the source line driver the memory cell can be easily operated during the forming SET REST and read operations.

The world line driver controls the voltage on the word line WL based on the command signal CMD and address signal X ADDi. The signal CMD represents which operation has to be applied to the selected memory cell. The address signals X ADDi and Y ADDi are used to select a desired memory cell. The address signal X ADDi means that the ith column of memory cells is selected and the address signal Y ADDi means that the ith row of memory cells is selected. When the forming operation is applied to the memory cell the world line driver outputs a voltage of 2.3V to the word line WL or pulls up the voltage of the word line WL to 2.3V. When the RESET operation is applied to the memory cell the world line driver outputs a voltage of 4V to the word line WL or pulls up the voltage of the word line WL to 4V. When the SET operation is applied to the memory cell the world line driver outputs a voltage of 2.3V to the word line WL or pulls up the voltage of the word line WL to 2.3V. When the read operation is applied to the memory cell the world line driver outputs a voltage of 3V to the word line WL or pulls up the voltage of the word line WL to 3V.

The bit line driver controls the voltage on the bit line BL according to the operation being applied to the memory cell. The bit line driver receives the signal CMD and address signal Y ADDi and outputs the corresponding voltage to the bit line BL . When the forming operation is applied to the memory cell the bit line driver outputs a voltage of 3.8V to the bit line BL or pulls up the voltage of the bit line BL to 3.8V. When the RESET operation is applied to the memory cell the bit line BL is grounded by the bit line driver . When the SET operation is applied to the memory cell the bit line driver outputs a voltage of 1.4V to the bit line BL or pulls up the voltage of the bit line BL to 1.4V. When the read operation is applied to the memory cell the sensing amplifier reads the voltage on the bit line BL to determine the data stored in the memory cell for example.

The source line driver controls the voltage of the source line SL based on the received signal CMD and address signal Y ADDi. In another embodiment the address signal Y ADDi is replaced by the address signal X ADDi. When the RESET operation is applied to the memory cell the source line driver outputs a voltage of 2V to the source line SL or pulls up the voltage of the source line SL to 2V. When the SET operation read operation or forming operation is applied to the memory cell the source line SL is grounded by the source line driver .

According to the operation described in the voltage settings for different operation applied on the ReRAM memory cell can be easily implemented by using the bit line drivers word line drivers and source line drivers.

In one embodiment the bit lines are divided into a plurality of bit line groups the source lines comprise main source lines and sub source lines and each sub source line is connected to different bit line group. In one embodiment the address signal X ADDi corresponds to a main source line and a sub source line. In another embodiment the address signal X ADDi corresponds to a main source line and an address signal Y ADDi corresponds to a sub source line. In another embodiment the word lines comprise main word lines and sub word lines and each sub word line is connected to different bit line group wherein the address signal X ADDi corresponds to a main word line and a sub word line.

In some embodiments the definition of a memory cell does not include the switch such as the transistor T shown in . In some embodiments the memory cell includes the switch. Please refer to . is a schematic diagram of memory cells with a shared source line according to an embodiment of the invention. A first memory cell and a second memory cell are coupled to a bit line BL and a shared source line SL. The first memory cell is coupled to a word line WL and the second memory cell is coupled to a word line WL wherein the shared source line is disposed between the word line WL and the word line WL for example. The first memory cell includes a Metal Insulator Metal MIM device for example coupled to the bit line BL. The MIM device is also coupled to a transistor T. The transistor T couples the MIM device to the source line SL according to a control signal received via the word line WL. In other embodiments the MIM device can be replaced by a resistive memory device.

When logic 1 is written to the first memory cell the SET operation is applied to the MIM device and the resistance of the MIM device is high. When logic 0 is written to the first memory cell the RESET operation is applied to the MIM device and the resistance of the MIM device is relatively lower than the resistance of the MIM device after the SET operation.

By using the shared source line the size of the memory array can be reduced and the number of source drivers can also be reduced.

In some situations all the bit lines are pre charged to 1.4V before a RESET operation and only the selected bit line is driven to OV. This means that the voltage level of other bit lines stays at 1.4V. This is a very big power burden for the ReRAM and may be a major cause for the performance degradation in high density ReRAM arrays.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of the preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art . Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements.

