---

title: Infrastructure identification of available platforms for migration in place
abstract: Technologies related to migration in place are generally described. In some examples, software and/or data associated with a platform customer can be “migrated” to a new platform while allowing the platform customer's software and/or data to remain on same hardware. A data center and/or Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) provider may be configured to support migration in place for example by providing hardware identifiers upon request, providing platform identifiers upon request, providing platform compatibility information upon request and/or approving platforms for migration in place operations, deploying platform modules to migration in place hardware, providing user session support during migration in place operations, and/or performing security operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311316&OS=09311316&RS=09311316
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09311316
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140917
---
This is a continuation claiming priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 578 025 entitled MIGRATION IN PLACE BY INFRASTRUCTURE DEPLOYMENT OF PLATFORMS TO CUSTOMER HARDWARE filed on Aug. 9 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 880 704 which is a National Stage Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 34178 entitled MIGRATION IN PLACE filed on Apr. 19 2012.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Mainstream computer use is evolving from individually managed stand alone computing devices to connected devices that access software and or data via a network connection. Cloud computing refers to a computing model in which computing resources may be accessed via a network connection and resources available from the network may be referred to as in the cloud .

Behind a network connection a cloud may often comprise professionally managed hardware and software. A data center operator may supply hardware infrastructure itself e.g. racks and rows of servers within a physical structure and comprising processors memory cabling and cooling systems. In some cases one or more Infrastructure as a Service IaaS providers may supply an infrastructure layer using the data center operator s hardware. IaaS providers may supply for example servers as physical machines and or virtual machines raw storage firewalls load balancers and networks from the IaaS provider s pool of such resources within a data center. Data center operators and IaaS providers both provide hardware infrastructure and are both referred to herein as infrastructure providers .

One or more Platform as a Service PaaS providers or platform providers may supply a platform layer on infrastructure provider hardware. Platform providers may supply for example computing platforms such as operating systems programming language execution environments databases and web servers.

One or more platform customers including e.g. businesses and or individuals may store software and data on a selected platform provider s platform. An example platform customer may comprise e.g. a business engaging in ecommerce activities. Another example platform customer may comprise e.g. a Software as a Service SaaS provider who supplies a software layer using a platform provider s platform. SaaS providers may supply for example application software that can be made available in a cloud to users.

Customers or entities accessing a platform customer s software data in the cloud may be referred to as cloud clients or users . Therefore in an example arrangement infrastructure providers may sell cloud infrastructure to platform providers platform providers may sell cloud platforms to platform customers and platform customers may sell their goods services to users accessing the cloud.

The present disclosure generally describes technologies including devices methods and computer readable media relating to migration in place. Some example methods may comprise providing hardware identifiers to support migration in place. Methods configured to provide hardware identifiers may provide for example information identifying data center IaaS hardware having software and or data associated with an identified platform customer upon request. Example methods may include providing hardware comprising a plurality of servers for use by platform providers wherein the platform providers are associated with platform customers and wherein the platform customers are associated with platform customer data stored on one or more of the servers receiving a hardware identification request comprising a platform customer identification e.g. from the identified platform customer or a platform provider wherein the hardware identification request comprises a request to identify servers comprising customer data associated with an identified platform customer of a first platform provider and providing in response to the hardware identification request hardware identifier s corresponding to server s comprising customer data associated with the identified platform customer. In some embodiments a User Interface UI or Application Programming Interface API may be provided for the purpose of receiving and or responding to the hardware identification request. In some embodiments hardware identifier s may identify any number of servers at a data center at a particular physical location including for example all servers at a physical location or a subset thereof such as a server row a server rack or one or more specific servers within a data center.

Some example methods may comprise providing platform identifiers to support migration in place. Methods configured to provide platform identifiers may provide for example information identifying platforms available at data center IaaS hardware having software and or data associated with an identified platform customer upon request. Example methods may include providing hardware comprising a plurality of servers at a physical location for use by platform providers each platform provider being associated with platform customers and wherein platform customer software and or data is stored on the servers at the physical location receiving a migration in place list request comprising a platform customer identification e.g. from the identified platform customer or a platform provider and providing in response to the migration in place list request a migration in place list corresponding to the identified platform customer wherein the provided migration in place list identifies platform providers that are available to the identified platform customer without migrating the identified platform customer s software data outside of the physical location. The migration in place list may identify platform providers that are available to the identified platform customer without migrating outside of a data center at the physical location or without migrating outside out of a subset of the hardware within the data center such as a server row server rack or one or more specific servers within the data center. In some embodiments a UI or an API may be provided for the purpose of receiving the migration in place list request.

Some example methods may comprise providing platform compatibility information to support migration in place. Methods configured to provide platform compatibility information may provide platform compatibility information defining platform compatibility of one or more platforms with hardware identified in a platform compatibility request for determinations of platform provider compatibility with data center IaaS hardware. Example methods may include receiving a platform compatibility request comprising one or more hardware identifiers determining in response to the platform compatibility request whether server s corresponding to the hardware identifier s identified in the platform compatibility request meet criteria associated with a platform provider identified in the request or determining compatibility properties of the server s corresponding to the hardware identifier s and providing in response to the platform compatibility request platform compatibility information. Platform compatibility information may comprise a grant or denial of approval for migration in place and or properties of one or more servers identified by the hardware identifiers in the platform compatibility request.

Some example methods may comprise deploying platform modules to migration in place hardware to support migration in place. Methods configured to deploy platform modules to migration in place hardware may deploy new platform modules e.g. platform modules associated with an identified platform provider to data center IaaS hardware in response to a request from a platform customer or platform provider. Example methods may include receiving a migration in place request comprising a request to deploy platform service modules of an identified platform provider to servers comprising platform customer data associated with an identified platform customer and deploying in response to the migration in place request platform service modules of the identified platform provider to the servers comprising platform customer data associated with the identified platform customer. Deployed platform service modules may then perform migration operations to migrate the identified platform customer s software and or data to the identified platform provider s platform.

Some example methods may comprise providing user session support during migration in place operations. Example methods may support using sessions by directing service calls to a new platform e.g. platform modules associated with an identified platform provider as a migration in place operation is carried out. An increasing number of service calls associated with an identified platform customer may be directed to a platform provided by the identified platform provider as the identified platform customer s data is migrated to the identified platform provider s platform.

Some example methods may comprise performing security operations to support migration in place. Example methods may mask provided hardware identifiers to prevent data center mapping or cloud cartography attacks. In some embodiments hardware identifiers provided in response to hardware identification requests may comprise temporary use and or otherwise limited use hardware identifiers as described herein. Each of the methods may be combined with some or all of the others.

Computing devices and computer readable media having instructions for performing the various methods described herein are also disclosed. Example computer readable media may comprise non transitory computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions executable by a processor the instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to carry out any combination of the various methods provided herein. Example computing devices may include a server comprising a processor a memory and one or more migration support modules such as hardware identification request service modules migration in place list request service modules platform compatibility request servicing modules migration in place deployment modules appropriate UI and or API modules security modules and SBC modules configured to perform aspects of the above described methods as described in further detail herein.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures may be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to technologies including methods devices systems and or computer readable media deployed therein relating to migration in place. In some examples software and or data associated with a platform customer can be migrated to a new platform while allowing the platform customer s software and or data to remain on same hardware. An infrastructure provider may be configured to support migration in place for example by providing hardware identifiers upon request providing platform identifiers upon request providing platform compatibility information upon request deploying platform modules to identified hardware providing user session support during migration in place operations and or performing security operations.

In examples described herein with reference to platform customer software data is associated with platform customer e.g. software data may be owned by platform customer . Platform B and platform B modules are associated with platform provider e.g. may be owned by platform provider while platform A and platform A modules may be associated with a different platform provider from platform provider and platform C and platform C modules may also be associated with a different platform provider from platform provider . Platform customer software data may be referred to as identified software data because software data may be identified for a migration in place operation. Similarly platform customer may be referred to as identified platform customer because platform customer may be identified for a migration in place operation and platform provider and or platform B may be referred to as identified platform provider and identified platform respectively because platform provider and or platform B may be identified as providing a target platform to which identified software data migrates pursuant to a migration in place operation.

Interactions between infrastructure provider and user may comprise user session interactions as normally carried out between cloud clients such as user and data center hardware as may be provided by infrastructure provider . SBC may be configured to dynamically direct service calls within a user session to an identified platform such as platform B instead of a first platform e.g. platform A as a migration in place operation is performed. The identified platform may also be referred to herein as a second platform a new platform or a selected platform.

In some embodiments migration in place operations may comprise migrating identified software data from a first platform such as platform A as shown in to a second platform such as platform B as shown in while identified software data remains on same hardware e.g. hardware . In some embodiments same hardware may comprise any subset of hardware within a same physical location as hardware having identified software data . Therefore remaining on same hardware may comprise in some embodiments remaining on hardware hardware or any hardware operated by infrastructure provider in a same physical location such as a same building as hardware . In some embodiments remaining on same hardware may comprise remaining on a same specific server or servers remaining on a same rack of servers remaining in a same row of servers or remaining in a same data center at a same physical location as a specific server or servers having platform customer software data . However for the purpose of simplifying the explanations herein embodiments in which migration in place comprises platform customer software data remaining on hardware are described. Hardware may therefore be referred to as identified hardware because hardware may be identified as hardware where identified software data will remain before during and after a migration in place operation. In some embodiments same hardware may comprise any subset of hardware connected to hardware via a non public network e.g. a network operated by infrastructure provider for the exclusive use of infrastructure provider .

Allowing identified software data to remain on identified hardware while migrating to a new platform is advantageous from a security perspective as it does not expose platform customer software data to side channel attacks and or other security risks inherent in migrating platform customer software data to different hardware. In some circumstances migration in place may also have other advantages such as reducing unexpected errors due different hardware environments before and after migration.

Multiple different platform providers may offer platform services supported by infrastructure provider hardware. For example a first platform provider not shown in may offer platform A which may be deployed in hardware for a platform customer by platform A modules a second platform provider may offer platform B which may be deployed in hardware for a platform customer by platform B modules and a third platform provider not shown in may offer platform C which may be deployed in hardware for a platform customer by platform C modules . Platforms A B and C may all make use of infrastructure provider hardware . For example multiple PaaS providers may operate within a single IaaS facility.

Different platform providers may offer different business models pricing and types of engagement despite the fact that they use same hardware. For example a platform provider that serves primarily small startups may allow fine grain control but have minimal customer support and minimal site to site synchronization or content delivery services. A platform provider for large multisite companies meanwhile may offer a focus on deterministic multi site data availability and in house systems integration experts and consulting services for a business model that is focused on support consulting. In further contrast a platform provider for online merchant operations may have less reason to offer consulting as their users are computer savvy but may have a strong focus on fast response times and efficient load balancing and payment processing. Each of these three scenarios sees a platform provider investing in different services for their platform customers and platform customers may evolve through needing different platform providers over time. A platform customer may begin needing the platform provider for small startups evolve into needing the platform provider for large multisite as it becomes a larger corporate project and finally change to needing platform provider for online merchant operations as it becomes a successful business with many customers.

Some embodiments of this disclosure provide technologies for platform customer to determine platform providers that can be deployed on same infrastructure provider hardware e.g. hardware . Some embodiments may furthermore provide technologies for migration in place in which platform customer software data may run on same hardware before and after migration between platform providers by moving the applicable platforms not the platform customer software data . In some embodiments migration in place enables a lifecycle model in which a growing company can be passed among platform providers who specialize in different levels of customer support and scaling all without ever having to be concerned about unpredictable impacts of applications handling changes to new hardware memory models or network architectures. Security issues are also minimized because the platform customer software data need not be transferred between hardware. Also in some embodiments a platform customer may build an in house cloud so that platform customer and infrastructure provider are controlled by a same company or other entity. Platform customer may take advantage of a succession of platform provider services and offer excess infrastructure provider capacity to the market so that sensitive data never leaves the building hardware subset or specific servers reserved for platform customer .

In some embodiments migration support modules may be configured to allow platform customer to select a platform provider e.g. among providers of platform A B and C while platform customer software data associated with platform customer remains within infrastructure provider and optionally with a subset of hardware provided by infrastructure provider such as hardware or within a specific server provided by infrastructure provider such as hardware . Hardware ID references and storage dealiasing may be employed to allow platform customer to find a platform provider who offers identified hardware . An identified platform provider may be selected by platform customer to launch on identified hardware within infrastructure provider . Identified software data may be migrated to platform B of identified platform provider without transporting identified software data off of identified hardware . In some cases migration in place operations may be carried out without stopping deployment function of identified software data as described further herein.

Platform customer may send platform compatibility requests to platform providers and . A platform compatibility request may comprise hardware identifiers received from infrastructure provider in response to the hardware identification request along with a request for determination of whether platforms provided by platform providers and can be deployed identified hardware in this example hardware . Platform providers and may in turn send platform compatibility requests to infrastructure provider . Platform compatibility requests sent from platform providers and to infrastructure provider may optionally comprise additional information such as platform compatibility requirements and or requests for specified properties of hardware to facilitate platform provider compatibility determinations. Platform compatibility requests may also provide an identification of platform provider and or platform for use in determining platform compatibility. Migration support modules at infrastructure provider may be configured to provide platform compatibility information in response to platform compatibility requests comprising e.g. properties of hardware and or platform approvals denials. Platform providers and may optionally make compatibility determinations based on provided platform compatibility information and may respond to platform customer with platform approvals denials. In a platform provided by platform provider is determined to be incompatible with hardware and so platform provider s response to platform customer may indicate incompatibility while responses from platform providers may indicate approval compatibility with hardware . In some embodiments platform customer may send platform compatibility requests directly to infrastructure provider and infrastructure provider may likewise respond directly to platform customer .

Platform customer may select a compatible platform or platform provider for a migration in place operation in this example identified platform B provided by identified platform provider . Platform customer may send a migration in place request to identified platform provider or directly to infrastructure provider requesting infrastructure provider to deploy identified platform B to identified hardware comprising identified software data . Migration support modules at infrastructure provider may be configured to receive the migration in place request from platform customer or platform provider and to deploy in response to the migration in place request identified platform B modules of identified platform provider to identified hardware . Platform B modules may be retrieved from platform provider or from a previously stored memory within infrastructure provider . Platform B modules may be configured to install identified platform B on identified hardware and to optionally carry out migration operations effective to migrate identified software data to identified platform B .

In as in platform customer may select a compatible platform or platform provider for a migration in place operation for example platform B provided by platform provider . Platform customer may send a migration in place request to identified platform provider or directly to infrastructure provider requesting infrastructure provider to deploy identified platform B to hardware comprising identified software data . In embodiments wherein platform customer does not have a hardware identifier for hardware platform customer may request migration in place and infrastructure provider may determine identified hardware for a migration in place operation. Migration support modules at infrastructure provider may be configured to receive the migration in place request from platform customer or platform provider and to deploy in response to the migration in place request platform B modules of identified platform provider to identified hardware as described above.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more applications and program data . Applications may include for example SBC module s and migration support module s . Program data may include hardware ID data platform ID data and platform data that may be used by applications . As described in further detail herein SBC module s and migration support module s may be configured to support a variety of migration in place operations. Hardware ID data may comprise tables listing platform customers and corresponding hardware within infrastructure provider . Platform ID data may comprise tables listing hardware within infrastructure provider and platform providers that are compatible with such hardware. Platform data may comprise for example compatibility information comprising hardware properties of hardware within infrastructure provider and platform modules configured to deploy platforms to hardware such as platform A B and C modules .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output interfaces peripheral interfaces and communication interfaces to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate through either wired or wireless connections with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . Other conventional I O devices may be connected as well such as a mouse keyboard and so forth. An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication via one or more communication ports .

The computer storage media may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media.

Computing device may be implemented as one or more administration servers in an infrastructure provider . Administration servers may be configured to support interactions with platform customers and platform providers and optionally to provide SBC to support user sessions with infrastructure provider hardware such as . In some embodiments administration servers may be configured independently of hardware and administration servers may be reserved for administrative functions rather than used by platform customer software data . Of course it will be appreciated that infrastructure provider may provide any configuration of servers to provide administrative functions such as those provided by SBC modules and migration support modules .

In blocks and are illustrated as being performed sequentially with block providing block block providing blocks and block providing block and block providing block . It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In a UI API block one or more UI and or API modules may be configured to receive incoming requests via a network and to provide responses to received requests. Incoming requests may comprise for example hardware ID requests migration in place list requests platform compatibility requests and or migration in place deployment requests. Block may be configured to pass received requests to one or more of blocks or to otherwise initiate operations of one or more of blocks and or in response to received requests. Block may be configured provide responses to received requests including response data generated by blocks to a network e.g. to a platform customer platform customer application or platform provider that initiated a request.

It will be appreciated that numerous UI and API configurations are possible and in general UI and API configurations may comprise human and or computer operable controls configured to interact with human users and applications respectively. UI and API configurations may be configured to provide output data comprising response information which may be configured for display in a UI or for consumption by a calling application. Block may for example implement an API configured to receive HTTP GET and or POST commands Block may for example implement a Domain Name Server DNS address that routes to an API function for any platform customer or platform provider to use.

In some embodiments a UI API provided by block may comprise a variety of controls allowing platform customers and or platform providers to manage their relationships with an infrastructure provider. For example block may be configured to support control display and or retrieval of billing history account information service levels and other aspects of a business relationship. Migration in place support according to blocks may comprise an aspect or feature provided by block among various other features of a comprehensive relationship account management UI API. Block may receive a hardware ID request or migration in place list request and block may be configured to initiate block .

In a Hardware ID MIP List Request Service at block received hardware ID requests and or migration in place list requests may be processed and corresponding responses may be generated. Embodiments configured to receive hardware ID requests may receive hardware ID requests from platform customers and or platform providers. A hardware ID request may comprise a request to identify hardware such as servers server racks server rows or other subsets of servers at a physical location comprising software data associated with an identified platform customer of a first platform provider. Similarly embodiments configured to receive migration in place list requests may receive migration in place list requests from platform customers and or platform providers. A migration in place list request may comprise a request to identify platforms or platform providers compatible with hardware such as servers server racks server rows or other subsets of servers at a physical location comprising identified software data associated with a platform customer of a first platform provider.

Block may be configured to determine hardware IDs in response to hardware ID requests. A variety of technologies may be used to determine hardware IDs. In some embodiments an infrastructure provider may maintain tables mapping platform providers and platform customer software data to specific hardware. Determining appropriate hardware IDs may be accomplished by looking up a platform provider and or platform customer in a table. Tables mapping platform providers and platform customer software data to specific hardware may be maintained for example by assigning hardware IDs to hardware subsets at a physical location and assigning different platform providers platform customers to different subsets of hardware. In some embodiments a subset of hardware may correspond to all hardware at a particular physical location and different hardware IDs may be used for hardware at different physical locations. In some embodiments hardware IDs may thus correspond to all hardware at a data center or to server rows server racks or specific servers within a data center.

In some embodiments configured to determine hardware IDs in response to hardware ID requests block may be configured to identify hardware using MAC IDs or chip serial numbers. In some embodiments block may be configured to deploy a virtual machine VM instance configured to detect its own Internet Protocol IP address. For example a VM may be deployed to hardware having platform customer software data corresponding to a hardware ID request. The VM may be configured to access a Dom 0 IP address and or to extract the VM s own internal IP address as a hardware ID. A Dom 0 IP address may be a unique and stable virtual machine manager identifier and therefore the VM may be configured to access a Dom 0 IP address as a hardware ID. The VM s own internal IP address may also provide a durable hardware ID for use in some embodiments. Embodiments employing the VM s own internal IP address as a hardware ID may perform the method steps of in a time less than a lifetime of the VM used to detect a hardware ID. Regardless of technique used to detect a hardware ID the VM may be configured to report a detected hardware ID to block . Variants of the approaches described above may also allow platform customers to acquire hardware IDs without infrastructure provider support. For example platform customer may configure its own VM to detect and report hardware IDs using a Dom 0 IP address and or a VM s own internal IP address.

In some embodiments configured to determine hardware IDs in response to hardware ID requests block may include block . Security block may be configured to alter hardware IDs e.g. by converting hardware IDs into temporary use hardware IDs platform customer specific hardware IDs or otherwise limited use hardware IDs which limited use hardware IDs may be mapped to permanent hardware IDs. Limited use hardware IDs may be generated with an algorithmic relationship to permanent hardware IDs for example related or hashed from a MAC ID or chip serial number . Block may thereby prevent releasing permanent hardware IDs or information that can otherwise be used for data center mapping and cloud cartography type attacks. In some embodiments block may be configured to use a simple lookup table to relate pseudo random unique hardware IDs with each piece of hardware. Block may use the hardware IDs provided by block to return different hardware IDs to each different platform customer or platform provider who requests a hardware ID and or to associate different sets of hardware IDs with responses to each hardware ID request.

In embodiments configured to provide hardware IDs platform compatibility operations of block may be performed in one or more subsequent interactions after interactions of block with a platform customer or platform provider. In embodiments configured to provide migration in place lists discussed below block may be configured to interact with block .

Block may be configured to determine platforms or platform providers compatible with identified hardware in response to migration in place list requests. In embodiments configured to respond to migration in place list requests block may be configured to determine hardware IDs corresponding to a platform customer as described above. Block may additionally interact with block to determine platform compatibility with identified hardware. Compatible platforms may be compiled into a migration in place list and provided to a requesting platform customer or platform provider in response to a migration in place list request. Block may be followed by block .

In a Platform Compatibility block migration support modules may be configured to determine platform compatibility with identified hardware e.g. hardware associated with identified platform customer within infrastructure provider . Block may determine platform compatibility with identified hardware by retrieving hardware properties retrieving platform provider hardware interoperability requirements and comparing retrieved hardware properties against retrieved hardware interoperability requirements. In some embodiments platform compatibility determinations may be compiled into tables which tables may be referenced by block . In some embodiments block may be configured to make platform compatibility determinations in real time in response to platform compatibility requests e.g. from platform customer platform provider and or block .

In some embodiments block may be configured to interact with platform customer and or platform provider . For example block may be configured to receive a platform compatibility request via a network the platform compatibility request comprising hardware IDs and optionally a platform provider identification. Block may be configured to check whether identified hardware meets any known platform requirements for the identified platform provider and to provide in response to the platform compatibility request platform compatibility information defining platform compatibility of one or more platforms with identified hardware. In some embodiments platform compatibility information may take the form of a compatibility approval or denial. Alternatively block may be configured to determine all available platform providers available for identified hardware and to provide a migration in place list in response to a compatibility request.

In some embodiments block may be configured to interact with block for example by receiving hardware IDs from block and providing in response a migration in place list to block . In some embodiments block may be configured to supply hardware properties corresponding to identified hardware to facilitate for example platform provider compatibility determinations. A platform provider may make its own determinations regarding platform compatibility based upon hardware properties received from block in response to a platform compatibility request. Block may be followed by block .

In a Migration In Place MIP Deployment block migration support modules may be configured to receive a migration in place request the migration in place request comprising a platform provider identification and to deploy in response to the migration in place request platform service modules of an identified platform provider. For example platform customer or platform provider may send a migration in place request to block . Block may be configured to initiate or otherwise allow a migration in place operation pursuant to the migration in place request. In a migration in place operation platform service modules of an identified platform provider e.g. a platform provider that is selected as an identified new platform for a platform customer may be deployed to hardware such as one or more servers at a same physical location as the platform customer s software and data to enable migrating the platform customer s software data from a platform provided by a first platform provider to a platform provided by the identified platform provider. Migrating customer software and data between platform providers may be done using any of a variety of techniques and technologies currently in existence or as may be developed in the future with the exception that data transport steps performed in migration operations may be largely omitted. The new identified platform provider may be provided with a valid network address for a storage location of platform customer software data which may be made available through storage APIs and or via infrastructure provider storage and the identified platform provider can launch new platform VM images on the same hardware as the platform customer s software data which VMs may use the platform customer s software data from its present location. Deployment VM launches can be done within a same row or rack as an existing platform customer deployment for example or can even take over the same exact servers using the methods herein. Block may be followed by block .

In a SBC Integration block migration support modules may be configured to interact with SBC . Block may be configured to notify SBC of a migration to a new platform and or configure SBC to direct service calls to the new platform. In some embodiments block may be configured to notify SBC when a migration is underway enabling SBC to direct an increasing number of service calls associated with platform customer to platform B as the migration is carried out.

In blocks and are illustrated as being performed sequentially with block providing block . It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In a SBC Modules block SBC may be configured to generally perform any SBC operations known in the art or as may be developed in the future. SBC may support user session interactions between a platform customer software data and users such as directing user session service calls to various different services provided among platform customer software data while maintaining overall user session state. Block may be configured to incorporate block .

In a Migration Support Integration block SBC may be configured to receive notifications and or configuration commands from block as described above. Block may configure SBC in response to received notifications commands to direct service calls in any live user sessions e.g. with user to platform customer software data on identified platform B as shown in as platform customer software data migrates to platform B . In some embodiments block may be configured to direct an increasing number of service calls associated with platform customer to platform B provided by identified platform provider as the platform customer s software data is migrated to the platform B provided by identified platform provider . As platform B takes control of increasing segments of platform customer s software data during a migration operation SBC may be configured to direct increasing numbers of service calls to platform B until migration is complete and all service calls can be directed to platform B .

In blocks and are illustrated as being performed sequentially with block providing block and block providing blocks . It will be appreciated however that these blocks may be re arranged as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In a UI API block one or more UI and or API modules may be configured to receive incoming requests via a network and to provide responses to received requests. Incoming requests may comprise for example migration in place inquires platform compatibility requests and or migration in place deployment requests. Block may be configured to pass received requests to one or more of blocks or to otherwise initiate operations of one or more of blocks in response to received requests. Block may be configured provide responses to received requests including response data generated by blocks to a network e.g. to a platform customer platform customer application or infrastructure provider that initiated a request. It will be appreciated that numerous UI and API configurations are possible and in general UI and API configurations may comprise human and or computer operable controls configured to interact with human users and applications respectively as described above. Block may incorporate or interact with blocks .

In a Hardware ID Acquisition block Platform Provider MIP Support Modules may be configured to receive hardware IDs from platform customer e.g. along with a request to determine platform provider compatibility with identified hardware. In some embodiments block may be configured to receive a platform customer migration in place inquiry that does not comprise hardware IDs and to acquire hardware IDs from infrastructure provider for the platform customer. For example block may be configured to generate a call to an infrastructure provider API identifying platform customer and to receive hardware IDs corresponding to platform customer in response to the call. Other methods for acquiring hardware IDs may also be employed which methods are discussed above with reference to . Block may be followed by block .

In a Platform Compatibility block Platform Provider MIP Support Modules may be configured to determine platform compatibility with hardware identified by received hardware IDs. In some embodiments block may be configured to generate a call to an infrastructure provider API such as comprising hardware IDs for identified platform customer . Block may be configured to receive compatibility information in response to the call and to process received compatibility information to determine platform compatibility. When received compatibility information comprises a compatibility approval or denial minimal processing is required of block . When received compatibility information comprises hardware properties block may be configured to compare received hardware properties to any platform requirements. In some embodiments block may be configured to respond to calls from infrastructure provider e.g. from block with information comprising platform requirements to support platform compatibility determinations by infrastructure provider . Block may be followed by block .

In a Platform Provider Initiated MIP Deployment block Platform Provider MIP Support Modules may be configured to receive a platform customer selection or authorization to deploy a platform in a migration in place operation. In response to the selection authorization block may be configured to deploy a platform on platform customer s same hardware within infrastructure provider . Block may send one or more of a migration in place request platform deployment modules e.g. platform B modules hardware IDs and or a platform customer identifier to infrastructure provider . Either infrastructure provider or platform provider may then proceed to deploy platform B to platform customer hardware .

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly inter actable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically inter actable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art may translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While certain example techniques have been described and shown herein using various methods devices and systems it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter also may include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

