---

title: Cloud platform architecture
abstract: A cloud computing environment provides the ability to deploy a web application that has been developed using one of a plurality of application frameworks and is configured to execute within one of a plurality of runtime environments. The cloud computing environment receives the web application in a package compatible with the runtime environment and dynamically binds available services by appropriately inserting service provisioning data (e.g., service network address, login credentials, etc.) into the package. The cloud computing environment then packages an instance of the runtime environment, a start script and the package into a web application deployment package, which is then transmitted to an application (e.g., container virtual machine, etc.). The application container unpacks the web application deployment package, installs the runtime environment, loads the web application package into the runtime environment and starts the start script, thereby deploying the web application in the application container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250887&OS=09250887&RS=09250887
owner: Pivotal Software, Inc.
number: 09250887
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140106
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 767 010 filed Apr. 26 2010.

 Platform as a Service also commonly referred to has PaaS generally describes a suite of technologies provided by a service provider as an integrated solution that enables a web developer or any other application developer to build deploy and manage the life cycle of a web application or any other type of networked application . One primary component of PaaS is a cloud computing platform which is a network e.g. Internet etc. infrastructure run and maintained by the service provider upon which developed web applications may be deployed. By providing the hardware resources and software layers required to robustly run a web application the cloud computing platform enables developers to focus on the development of the web application itself and leave the logistics of scalability and other computing and storage resource requirements e.g. data storage database access processing power facilities power and bandwidth etc. to the cloud computing platform e.g. at a cost charged by the service provider . A service provider may additionally provide a plug in component to a traditional IDE i.e. integrated development environment that assists a developer who creates web applications using the IDE to properly structure develop and test such applications in a manner that is compatible with the service provider s cloud computing platform. Once the developer completes a web application using the IDE the plug in component assists the developer in deploying the web application into the cloud computing platform.

However due to complexities in providing flexible and scalable cloud computing platforms PaaS is offered by few service providers. Current offerings of cloud computing platforms provide limited choices in the computer languages application frameworks runtime environments available services and other technology options that may be selected to create a web application that can be launched in the cloud computing platform. For example a cloud computing platform that only supports Microsoft s .NET runtime environment would not be suitable for an enterprise with a technology development policy that requires development of web applications using an open source runtime environment such as the Apache Tomcat application server. Furthermore software layers of current cloud computing platforms are inextricably coupled to the hardware resources e.g. servers storage data centers etc. upon which they are built making any enterprise requested customization modification and or portability of functionality prohibitive. Such inflexibility and limited choices make adoption of current PaaS more suitable for small start up companies than for sophisticated enterprises that need to address issues such as governance security privacy and higher levels of control over web applications service level requirements scalability fault tolerance etc. .

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide a cloud computing environment for deployment of web applications that can be developed utilizing any choice of application framework e.g. Ruby on Rails Spring etc. any choice of runtime environment e.g. Apache Tomcat application server Microsoft .NET etc. and any choice of programming language e.g. Java Ruby Scala Python etc. . The cloud computing environment further decouples the software based components of the cloud computing environment that provide web application deployment functionality from any hardware based infrastructure platform upon which the software based components might be built. As such instances of the cloud computing environment can be launched on top of any type of hardware resource from a single laptop to an enterprise wide data center. The flexibility of such a cloud computing environment can lead to increased adoption at all levels from the single developer to the entire enterprise. At least one embodiment leverages the ability to easily scale resources for the cloud computing environment by utilizing virtual machines that can be dynamically instantiated to provide additional computing resource capacity.

One method according to an embodiment deploys a web application in a hosting environment wherein the web application is developed using one of a plurality of application frameworks and is configured to execute within one of a plurality of runtime environments. According to the method the hosting environment first receives the web application in the form of a package compatible with the runtime environment. An example of such a package may be a WAR file that is compatible with the Apache Tomcat runtime environment. The hosting environment then determines a selection of available services e.g. databases etc. accessible by the hosting environment to bind to the web application and receives service provisioning data for at least one of the plurality of available services wherein the service provisioning data at least one available service comprises network addressing information relating to the corresponding available service. Upon receiving such service provisioning data the hosting environment inserts the received service provisioning data for each of the at least one available service into the package in accordance with a data organization structure imposed by the application framework on the package thereby binding the available service to the web application. For example if the web application is developed using a Spring framework then service provisioning data for available services e.g. network addressing information login credentials etc. may be inserted into the WAR file in a manner consistent with the organizational structure of a Spring framework organized WAR file. The hosting environment then generates a start script for starting the runtime environment and launching the web application and then packages the runtime environment start script and package into a web application deployment package. In one embodiment for example the web application deployment package may be a simple tarball. The hosting environment then fetches the web application deployment package for an application container indicating availability to deploy the web application and then unpacks the web application deployment package into the application container thereby installing the runtime environment and loading the package into the runtime environment. One example of an application container as further discussed herein is a virtual machine referred to as a container VM . The hosting environment then executes the start script in the application container to start the runtime environment and launch the web application and upon successful launch of the web application notifies a router of network address information for the application container thereby enabling the router to route web browser requests for the web application to the application container.

Cloud computing platform provider provides service provider an infrastructure platform upon which a cloud computing environment may be executed. In the particular embodiment of infrastructure platform comprises hardware resources such as servers to and one or more storage array networks SAN such as SAN which are configured in a manner to provide a virtualization environment that supports the execution of a plurality of virtual machines across servers to . As further detailed below these virtual machines provide the various services and functions that make up cloud computing environment .

Virtualization environment of additionally includes an orchestration component e.g. implemented as a process running in a virtual machine in one embodiment that monitors the infrastructure resource consumption levels and requirements of cloud computing environment e.g. by monitoring communications routed through addressing and discovery layer as further detailed below and provides additional infrastructure resources to cloud computing environment as needed or desired. For example if cloud computing environment requires additional virtual machines to host newly deployed web applications or to scale currently running web applications to support peak demands orchestration component can initiate and manage the instantiation of virtual machines on servers to to support such needs. In one example implementation of an embodiment similar to that of virtualization environment may be implemented by running VMware ESX based hypervisor technologies on servers to provided by VMware Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. although it should be recognized that any other virtualization technologies including Xen and Microsoft Hyper V virtualization technologies may be utilized consistent with the teachings herein .

In the embodiment of cloud computing environment supports an application execution space that comprises a plurality of virtual machines referred to as container VMs to instantiated to host deployed web applications. For example the deployment by enterprise of a web application on the cloud computing platform of service provider results in the hosting of web application in container VM of application execution space at cloud computing platform provider .

Web application can access a set of base services e.g. run in one or more virtual machines provided by cloud computing environment as well as third party services such as those that may be provided directly by service provider e.g. custom database CRM service etc. . For example a relational database service e.g. MySQL etc. monitoring service background task scheduler logging service messaging service memory object caching service and the like may comprise base services in one embodiment. A service provisioner e.g. run in one or more virtual machines serves as a communications intermediary between these available services e.g. base services and other third party provided services such as custom database and CRM service and other components of cloud computing environment e.g. cloud controller health manager router container VMs to etc. and assists with the task of provisioning or binding such available services to web applications during the web application deployment process. depicts a component architecture for service provisioner of cloud computing environment according to one embodiment. In the embodiment of service provisioner maintains a shim or similar stub component for each service available in cloud computing environment see e.g. shims and respectively for base services and and CRM service . Each shim component itself maintains service provisioning data for its corresponding service such as a description of the service type service characteristics e.g. multi tenancy versus single tenancy etc. login credentials for the service e.g. root username password etc. network address and port number of the service and the like. Each shim component is configured to communicate with its corresponding service utilizing an API or other similar communications protocol that is supported by such service. For example in order to bind web application to base service during deployment service provisioner may direct shim to log into base service and generate new credentials e.g. a new username and password specifically for web application so that web application can directly log into and access base service with such credentials during its execution. Service provisioner further comprises an addressing and discovery layer communications client that enables service provisioner to communicate with other components of cloud computing environment through addressing and discovery layer .

It should be recognized that service provisioner as depicted in is only one embodiment of a communications intermediary between available services and other components of cloud computing environment and that alternative embodiments may be implemented consistent with the teachings herein. For example depicts an alternative embodiment of service provisioner as an abstraction layer of independently operating shim components. Each shim component e.g. to to operates for example as an independent process and comprises its own addressing and discovery layer communications client e.g. and respectively to interact with addressing and discovery layer . In an embodiment similar to that of shim components may be implemented in different locations so long as they are able to effectively communicate with address and discovery layer . For example shim for CRM service may be implemented as a process running on a server at service provider while shim components and for base services and respectively may be implemented as processes running within allocated virtual machines at cloud computing service provider .

Returning to addressing and discovery layer provides a common interface through which components of cloud computing environment such as service provisioner cloud controller health manager router and container VMs to in application execution space can communicate and receive notifications. For example service provisioner may communicate through addressing and discovery layer to broadcast the availability of services and to propagate service provisioning data for such services during deployment of web applications in cloud computing environment . Similarly container VM may broadcast a notification through addressing and discovery layer to indicate the successful deployment of web application and to provide routing information e.g. hostname and network address information bound port number etc. for the successfully deployed web application . In one embodiment addressing and discovery layer is implemented as a message brokering service e.g. running in one or more virtual machines that defines a common protocol and message format through which components of cloud computing environment can exchange messages and broadcast notifications and other information. In such an embodiment the components of cloud computing environment establish a connection with the message brokering service e.g. also sometimes referred to as subscribing to the message brokering service for example through known authentication techniques e.g. passwords etc. and once connected to the message brokering service can provide receive and request messages notifications and other similar information to and from other components that have also subscribed to the message brokering system. One example of a message brokering service that may be used in an embodiment is RabbitMQ which is based upon the AMPQ Advanced Message Queuing Protocol open protocol standard. It should be recognized however that alternative interfaces and communication schemes may be implemented for addressing and discovery layer other than such a message brokering service.

Cloud controller e.g. run in one or more virtual machines orchestrates the deployment process for web applications that are submitted to cloud computing environment for deployment. Cloud controller receives web applications submitted to cloud computing environment and as further detailed below interacts with other components of cloud computing environment to bind available services required by submitted web applications and package web applications for transmission to available container VMs e.g. container VMs to for deployment. In the embodiment depicted in web applications such as web application received by cloud controller may be developed by an application developer in enterprise using an integrated development environment IDE installed on the developer s laptop or terminal IDE includes an installed plug in provided by service provider that facilitates the development and submission of web application to cloud computing environment . In order to provide enterprise the ability to impose enterprise wide rules on web applications e.g. permitted accessible services computing resource consumption limitations etc. service provider may also provide to enterprise a policy engine to be run for example as a proxy server within enterprise . As depicted in the embodiment of policy engine is situated in the communications path between the cloud controller and entities that communicate with cloud computing environment through cloud controller such as application developer or an administrator as further discussed below. For example policy engine intercepts web applications submitted for deployment by developer and reviews the requested requirements of such submitted web applications prior to releasing them to cloud computing environment for deployment. Administrator in enterprise is able to set policies for policy engine as well as review analytics for web applications currently deployed in cloud computing environment through a policy engine user interface that communicates with policy engine and can be accessed via a web browser or other client application. In one embodiment policy engine is further able to provide the same or similar functions as cloud controller locally within enterprise . It should be recognized that policy engine is an optional feature that may be provided by service provider to enterprise and that alternative embodiments or implementations may not utilize or include policy engine . For example as depicted in application developer and administrator may communicate directly with cloud controller without utilizing policy engine . Furthermore it should be recognized that in alternative embodiments policy engine may be situated at any location within the communications path to cloud controller for example within service provider or cloud platform provider rather than enterprise as is depicted in . It should further be recognized that multiple policy engines enforcing policies for different organizations may be situated between in communications paths to cloud controller for example both within enterprise and service provider . Cloud computing environment further comprises a health manager e.g. run in one or more virtual machines that tracks and maintains the health of cloud computing environment by monitoring messages broadcast on addressing and discovery layer by other components of cloud computing environment . For example health manager may notice the failure of an instance of a deployed web application and automatically broadcast a request to cloud controller to re start the web application. Similarly health manager may be further configured to itself initiate the re starting of failed available services or other components of cloud computing environment e.g. cloud controller service provisioner router etc. .

Once cloud controller successfully orchestrates the deployment of web application in container VM an enterprise customer can access web application for example through a web browser or any other appropriate client application residing on a computer laptop or other computer terminal. Router e.g. run in one or more virtual machines receives the web browser s access request e.g. a uniform resource locator or URL and routes the request to container VM which hosts web application . More generally router maintains mappings in internal routing tables between URLs and deployed web applications in order to properly route URL requests from customers to the appropriate container VMs hosting the requested web applications as well as maintain load balancing among web application instances etc. . These mappings are received by router through address and discovery layer as detailed further below when a container VM successfully deploys a web application and thus broadcasts routing information e.g. hostname network address information port number etc. for the web application through addressing and discovery layer .

It should be recognized that the embodiment of is merely exemplary and that alternative cloud computing architectures may be implemented consistent with the teachings herein. For example while implements cloud computing environment on an infrastructure platform hosted by cloud computing platform provider it should be recognized that cloud computing environment may be implemented by entities other than cloud computing platform provider on top of any type of hardware infrastructure. depicts an alternative embodiment of a cloud computing architecture in which infrastructure platform is provided by service provider itself. Furthermore unlike in which infrastructure platform comprises a virtualization environment in which components of cloud computing environment are implemented as processes or daemons running in one or more virtual machines the components of cloud computing environment in are run in a non virtualized infrastructure platform as processes or daemons directly on hardware resources such as servers to . It should be recognized that embodiments may configure cloud computing environment and infrastructure platform in a loosely coupled manner with communication between computing environment and infrastructure only occurring through orchestration component of infrastructure platform which monitors hardware resource consumption by connecting to addressing and discovery layer . In such loosely coupled embodiments it should be recognized that cloud computing environment may be implemented on any infrastructure platform including on a laptop or personal computer e.g. in which case each component of cloud computer environment runs as a separate process or daemon on the laptop or personal computer .

Upon receipt of such service provisioning data in step cloud controller is then able to transmit the identity of available services to IDE as requested in step . Upon receipt of the identity of available services in step the IDE plug in then determines and transmits a selection of desired available services to bind to the submitted web application. It should be recognized that such a selection process may in certain embodiments be automated in accordance with pre configured preferences set in the IDE or may involve manual selection by developer in other embodiments. Upon receipt of the selection of services in step cloud controller begins a staging process to stage or otherwise modify the contents of the WAR file or other package of the submitted web application to bind the selected services to the web application. In one embodiment this staging process involves unpacking the WAR file or extracting its constituent directory structure and files accordingly inserting new files and or modifying existing files to bind the selected services and repacking the WAR file e.g. or otherwise creating a new WAR file that replaces the previous WAR file . For example in step cloud controller and the shim components of service provisioner for the selected services may exchange messages through addressing and discovery layer to establish or otherwise obtain additional service provisioning data such as service login credentials e.g. username password combinations hostname network address and port number to access the service and any requisite software drivers libraries that may be needed to enable the submitted web application to communicate with the services upon deployment. Cloud controller is then able to incorporate such service provisioning data into the contents of the WAR file as part of the staging process. In one embodiment set up information identifying the application framework utilized to develop the submitted web application i.e. that was received by cloud controller in step enables cloud controller to properly insert service provisioning data into the contents of the WAR file to bind selected services based upon a data organization structure of the WAR file that is imposed by the application framework e.g. inserting additional environmental variables entries in configuration files additional system parameters and the like reflecting for example the hostname network address port number and login credentials for the service etc. . For example if the application framework is the Spring framework cloud controller inserts service provisioning data into the contents of the WAR file in accordance with how a Spring framework developed web application organizes its data within the WAR file. Once the contents of the WAR file have been modified to bind selected services to the submitted web application in step cloud controller generates a start script file that can be executed by a container VM to start a runtime environment and launch the submitted web application in the runtime environment. For example if the WAR file is intended to be deployed in a runtime environment such as Apache Tomcat application server the start script file may include commands to start Apache Tomcat and then start the servlet or servlets that comprises web application e.g. via a net start command etc. .

In step cloud controller then creates a web application deployment package that can be unpacked by any available container VM. In one embodiment such a web application deployment package is a tar file also referred to as a tarball that includes the start script file an instance of the runtime environment e.g. Apache Tomcat etc. to be installed and started in a container VM and the WAR file for web application e.g. embedded in an appropriate directory within the directory structure of the instance of the runtime environment . Alternative embodiments may include further optimizations to streamline the communication and utilized network bandwidth between the IDE plug in at enterprise and cloud controller . For example in one embodiment in step IDE plug in may include as part of the transmission of set up characteristics a fingerprint list of hash values e.g. SHA 1 values etc. and file sizes for each file in the WAR file. Cloud controller in turn maintains its own table of fingerprint entries for hash value file size pairs with each entry associated with a stored file. Upon receipt of the list from the IDE plug in cloud controller determines whether it already has any of the files in the WAR file by reviewing its table. In such manner cloud controller can specifically request only those files with associated hash values and file sizes for which cloud controller does not have an entry in its table. Such an optimization can significantly reduce the amount of data transmitted by IDE plug in to cloud controller . For example if only a few lines of code have been changed in a single library file of an already uploaded web application the foregoing fingerprinting process enables the IDE plug in to transmit only the library file itself rather than the entire WAR file. Similarly since different web applications often share common application framework files the foregoing fingerprinting process can further significantly reduce the uploading times for different web applications. It should be recognized that although an IDE or IDE plug in is described in alternative embodiments may initiate the flow in performed by the IDE plug in using other non IDE environments. For example developer may interact with cloud controller through a command line interface CLI other applications or any other similar process or tool capable of initiating a network request e.g. HTTP request to communicate with cloud controller . Furthermore it should be recognized that embodiments may include a policy engine that intercepts communication between IDE plug in or CLI or other similar tool and cloud controller altering communications in order to adhere to set policies and or performing steps on behalf of the IDE plug in e.g. selecting services in step according to pre defined policies etc . It should also be recognized that functionalities described herein as provided in a plug in IDE or CLI or other application or tool may be alternatively provided inside the cloud computing environment for example in cloud controller in alternative embodiments. For example in one alternative embodiment determination of the application framework as part of the set up characteristics in step may be performed by cloud controller upon its receipt of the web application.

A virtualization software layer also referred to hereinafter as hypervisor is installed on top of hardware platform . Hypervisor supports virtual machine execution space within which multiple container VMs for hosting web applications may be concurrently instantiated and executed. As shown virtual execution space supports container VMs to . For each of container VMs to hypervisor manages a corresponding virtual hardware platform i.e. virtual hardware platforms that includes emulated hardware such as virtual hard drive virtual NIC virtual CPU and RAM for VM . For example virtual hardware platform may function as an equivalent of a standard x86 hardware architecture such that any x86 supported operating system e.g. Microsoft Windows Linux Solaris x86 NetWare FreeBSD etc. may be installed as guest operating system to execute web application for container VM although it should be recognized that in alternative embodiments each of container VMs to may support the execution of multiple web applications rather than a single web application. Hypervisor is responsible for transforming I O requests from guest operating system to virtual platform into corresponding requests to hardware platform . In the embodiment of guest operating system of container VM supports the execution of a deployment agent which is a process or daemon that communicates e.g. via addressing and discovery layer with cloud controller to receive and unpack web application deployment packages and with router to provide network routing information for web applications that have been successfully deployed in container VM . Deployment agent is automatically launched upon the instantiation of a container VM in certain embodiments. Guest operating system further supports the installation and execution of runtime environment within which web application runs. For example in one embodiment runtime environment may be a Java application server e.g. Apache Tomcat etc. that includes a Java virtual machine and various API libraries that support the deployment of Java based web applications. As described in the context of such a runtime environment may be received by a container VM as part of a web application deployment package created by cloud controller .

It should be recognized that the various terms layers and categorizations used to describe the virtualization components in may be referred to differently without departing from their functionality or the spirit or scope of the invention. For example virtual hardware platforms may be considered to be part of virtual machine monitors VMM which implement the virtual system support needed to coordinate operations between hypervisor and their respective container VMs. Alternatively virtual hardware platforms may also be considered to be separate from VMMs and VMMs may be considered to be separate from hypervisor . One example of hypervisor that may be used is included as a component of VMware s ESX product which is commercially available from VMware Inc. It should further be recognized that other virtualized computer system architectures may be used consistent with the teachings herein such as hosted virtual machine systems where the hypervisor is designed to run on top of a host operating system. It should further be recognized as previously discussed in the context of that virtualized platform which provides container VMs such as those in may be supported by hardware resources that comprise any number of physical computers and data storage systems in one or more data centers connected by networking with each of the physical computers hosting one or more of container VMs to and possibly other VMs that run one or more processes carrying out the functions of other components of cloud computing environment such as router cloud controller heath manager various base services service provisioner address and discovery layer and the like. As discussed in the context of with respect to container VMs each VM supporting such other components is a virtual computer system that may have a guest operating system and one or more guest applications that can include any of the above processes.

It should be recognized that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific embodiments described herein without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. For example while the foregoing description has discussed embodiments using web applications or Internet applications it should be recognized that any network utilizing application can leverage the techniques disclosed herein and as such web application as used herein shall be interpreted to include any type of client server based application that employs network based communications. Furthermore although the foregoing embodiments have focused on the use of container VMs to host deployed web applications it should be recognized that any application container may be used to host web applications including such container VMs processes in virtual machines kernel level containers processes in traditional non virtualized operating systems and any other execution environment that provides an isolated environment capable of running application level code. Similarly while the various components of cloud computing environment have been generally described as being implemented in one or more virtual machines e.g. for load balancing and scalability purposes it should be recognized that any type of application container as previously discussed above can also implement such components including for example traditional non virtualized computing environment background processes threads or daemons. Furthermore any combination of different types of application containers to host web applications and implement other components e.g. cloud controller router health manager base services service provisioner addressing and discovery layer etc. can comprise any particular cloud computing environment implementation. It should further be recognized that multiple instances of the various components of cloud computing environment e.g. cloud controller router health monitor service provisioner etc. may be implemented in alternative embodiments for example for scalability purposes.

The various embodiments described herein may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. For example these operations may require physical manipulation of physical quantities usually though not necessarily these quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals where they or representations of them are capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. Further such manipulations are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing. Any operations described herein that form part of one or more embodiments of the invention may be useful machine operations. In addition one or more embodiments of the invention also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for specific required purposes or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The various embodiments described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

One or more embodiments of the present invention may be implemented as one or more computer programs or as one or more computer program modules embodied in one or more computer readable media. The term computer readable medium refers to any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be input to a computer system computer readable media may be based on any existing or subsequently developed technology for embodying computer programs in a manner that enables them to be read by a computer. Examples of a computer readable medium include a hard drive network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory e.g. a flash memory device a CD Compact Discs CD ROM a CD R or a CD RW a DVD Digital Versatile Disc a magnetic tape and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although one or more embodiments of the present invention have been described in some detail for clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the described embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the scope of the claims is not to be limited to details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the claims. In the claims elements and or steps do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the invention s . In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the appended claims s .

