---

title: System and method for providing virtual items to users of a virtual space
abstract: A system and method for providing virtual items to users of an online game operated in a virtual space. Multiple users may participate in affiliations or alliances of discrete groups of users in an online game and may access the online game through client computing platforms associated with the users. The affiliations may have affiliation game units associated with affiliations which provide a benefit to the members of the online game. Affiliation members may cumulatively obtain affiliation game units and/or upgrade affiliation game units by providing one or more virtual items. Upgrading affiliation game units may require the cooperation of multiple members of the affiliation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09452356&OS=09452356&RS=09452356
owner: KABAM, INC.
number: 09452356
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
This disclosure relates to providing virtual items to users of a virtual space and in particular providing virtual items to users of a virtual space wherein the users of the virtual space have a relationship with one another.

The popularity of online games has grown over the years. Conventional online games are provided through gaming platforms such as Facebook.com Kabam.com Zynga.com Bigpoint Games Steam etc. Within the online games and or gaming platforms gaming communities have developed to promote group based game play. The gaming communities may be known as affiliations. The affiliations facilitate online game play to perform tasks within the online game facilitate actions within the online game amongst members of the affiliation and facilitate actions to compete against other affiliations.

Membership with an affiliation may impact retention of users within the online game. That is users of an online game that are members of an affiliation may be more likely to spend more time and resources within an online game. Conventional affiliations within online games may be all inclusive accepting all users that desire membership to the affiliation while other affiliations within an online game may be extremely exclusive. Certain affiliations grant memberships to new users based on a need for additional members or based on in game performance metrics of users. As such affiliations may become cliques where membership to an affiliation is hard or impossible for new users to obtain. Additionally joining an affiliation may seem like a daunting task to new users.

Accordingly alternative approaches including incentives for users that are members of an affiliation may encourage affiliations to accept new members and or encourage current members of the affiliation to remain active and or increase their activity in the online game.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system that provides virtual items to users of a virtual space. The system may provide virtual items to users having an affiliation in the virtual space such that the virtual items are provided to one or more of the affiliation members. The affiliation virtual item or affiliation unit may provide a benefit to the members of the affiliation. The benefit may be provided to each member individually or the benefit may be provided to the members collectively. When the benefit is provided to the members collectively the benefit may be realized when the members of the affiliation are acting for a common goal or purpose. The affiliation units may be provided to members of the affiliation in response to the members providing virtual items in exchange for the affiliation units. The affiliation units may provide a benefit having a benefit level that is proportional to the number of users of an affiliation that have contributed virtual items. The affiliation units may be distributed to the members of the affiliation after a threshold number of users have provided virtual items.

In implementations a system may include one or more physical computer processors configured by machine readable instructions to perform one or more functions. The machine readable instructions may be thought of conceptually as components of the machine readable instructions. However this application includes all forms of machine readable instructions whether provided in component form or otherwise. Such components may include a space component a user component a relationship component a virtual item component an offer component a distribution component a notification component and one or more other components.

The space component may facilitate participation by multiple users in an online game through client computing platforms associated with the users. The space component may be configured to execute an instance of the online game to facilitate presentation of the online game to the users. The game module may be configured to implement in game actions in the instance of the online game in response to actions requests for the in game actions from the users. The space component may be configured to facilitate user participation in the online game by effectuating transmission of information related to the instance of the online game to client computing platforms on which views of the online game are presented to users. The users may include a first user and a second user.

The relationship component may be configured to manage one or more affiliations within the online game. A given affiliation within the online game may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the online game. The relationship having a functional significance in the online game may impact on game play for the users. The affiliations may comprise a first affiliation within a first online game between a group of users including the first user and the second user. The relationship having a functional significance may include one or more of a leadership role a controller role a mentorship role and or an administrator role.

The virtual item component may be configured to provide affiliation game units associated with affiliations within the online game. The affiliation game units may be for example game characters realms associated with the affiliation buildings providing a benefit to users weapons associated with the affiliation vehicles associated with the affiliation symbolic virtual items associated with the affiliation and or other virtual items. The affiliation game units may be controllable in the online game by individual ones of the users in the affiliations with which they are associated. The affiliation game units may include a first affiliation game unit associated with the first affiliation.

The affiliation game units may include one or more benefit metrics wherein the benefit metrics indicate a benefit received by the affiliation members from the affiliation game unit. The benefit metrics may reflect increased stamina cohesion effectiveness brutality speed power and or other parameters for users armed forces within the game. The benefit metrics may reflect increased production yield effectiveness multiplication and or other parameters for users resources within the online game. The benefit metrics may reflect a benefit over other members of different affiliations. The benefit metrics may reflect increased responsiveness of the virtual space environment to users of the affiliation. The benefit metrics may reflect availability of game elements such as quests missions map areas and or other game elements within the virtual space. The benefit metrics may reflect a multiplier for users of an affiliation when users are purchasing virtual currency to use in the virtual space. The benefit metrics may reflect a discount for in game items for users of the affiliation.

The benefit metrics may comprise level values indicating a level of the benefit indicated by the benefit metric. For example the higher the level value of a benefit metric the more benefit is provided to the users of the affiliation. The virtual item component may be configured to increase a level value of one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game units. The virtual item component may increase the level value of the one or more benefit metrics in response to the users in the affiliations providing one or more virtual items. For example a first level value of a first benefit metric of the first affiliation game unit may be increased in response to the first user providing one or more virtual items. The first level value of a first benefit metric of the first affiliation game unit may be increased in response to the first user and the second user providing one or more virtual items.

The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics may be based on the amount of users having the given affiliation that provide one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the proportion of users having a given affiliation that have provided one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the number of users having a given affiliation that have provided one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit exceeding one or more thresholds. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the cumulative value of the virtual items provided by the users having a given affiliation to upgrade the affiliation game unit.

The one or more benefit metrics of the one or more affiliation game units may have one or more discrete benefit level values and the virtual item components may be configured to promote the one or more benefit metrics from a first benefit level value to a second benefit level value in response to a threshold amount of the users having a given affiliation providing a threshold amount of one or more virtual items to promote the one or more affiliation character units. The one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation may include one or more of a defense metric an attack metric a skill metric a loyalty metric a moral metric an energy metric and or a speed metric. The one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation may include one or more of a resource metric and or a production attack metric.

The affiliation game unit may be a game unit which when used by a member of the affiliation may provide a benefit to the user. For example if the affiliation game unit is a military general use of the affiliation game unit being a military general may provide a benefit to the member in battles against other users. Other users against which the affiliation game unit is used may be users not being part of the affiliation.

The affiliation game unit may provide a benefit when the users are engaged in individual endeavors. The affiliation game unit may provide a benefit when the users are engaged in affiliation based endeavors. Individual ones of the affiliation game units may be provided to the individual members of the affiliation when awarded to the affiliation members. One affiliation game unit may be awarded to the affiliation members providing a benefit to the affiliation individually and or as a whole.

The affiliation game unit may be controllable by users of the affiliation within the online game. For example both the first user and the second user may control the affiliation game unit by virtue of their inclusion in the first affiliation. The affiliation game unit may be controllable by individual ones of the discrete group of users. The affiliation game unit may be controllable by only one of the individual ones of the discrete group of users during any given time period. In other implementations the affiliation game unit may be controllable my multiple ones of the discrete group of users during any given time period. The individual ones of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation that are able to control the one or more affiliation game units may have a relationship having a functional significance with the other users of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation. The individual ones of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation able to control a given affiliation game unit may include users having an indication of a priority for controlling the given affiliation game unit.

The affiliation game unit may not be controllable by the members of the affiliation and instead may be provided to the members of the affiliation and the members of the affiliation may receive a benefit by virtue of the affiliation game unit being provided to them. The affiliation game unit may be upgraded such that users may provide additional virtual items to increase the level values of the benefit metrics and or provide additional virtual items to increase the number and or type of the benefit metrics.

The perceived value of the virtual items required of the users to upgrade the affiliation game unit may increase as the perceived benefit of the level value of the benefit metrics and or the perceived benefit of the benefit metrics increase.

The offer component may be configured to effectuate presentation of offers to the users having a given affiliation. The offers may include a notification to the user having a given affiliation to provide one or more virtual items to increase a benefit level and or the benefit type of the one or more benefit metrics of a given affiliation unit associated with the affiliation. For example a first offer may be provided to the users of the first affiliation to provide one or more virtual items in exchange for increasing the first benefit level of the first benefit metric of the first affiliation unit associated with the first affiliation.

The offer component may be configured to effectuate presentation of offers to the users having a given affiliation to purchase one or more virtual items for increasing a benefit level and or benefit type of the one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation game character associated with the given affiliation.

The offers may also include offers to upgrade the affiliation virtual units such that the offer component may be configured to provide offers to increase the level values of benefit metrics and or modify the benefit metric type provided by a given affiliation game unit.

The virtual items requested from the users in exchange for the affiliation game units may include one or more of resources obtained in the virtual space attacking troop units defensive troop units virtual items obtained in the virtual space virtual items purchased from a game shop and or virtual currency. Virtual currency may take any form such as coins experience points gems precious stones precious metals game items game units virtual realms virtual buildings and or other virtual items having a perceived value in the virtual space and or online game.

The distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game units in response to the users having a given affiliation accepting the offer. The distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game unit upon the occurrence of one or more of the events described above with respect to the number amount threshold or other measurement of users accepting the offer. For example the distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game unit to one or more members having a given affiliation in response to the number of users accepting the offer exceeding a threshold number of user exceeding an obtained number of users or exceeding an obtained percentage of users of the affiliation accepting the offer.

The notification component may be configured to provide notifications to users of the affiliation indicating the offer for the affiliation game unit. The notification component may be configured to provide notifications top the members of a given affiliation giving an indication of the number percentage and or proportion of users in a given affiliation that have accepted the offer. The notification component may provide messages to users providing encouragement to accept the offer. The notification component may facilitate identifying to affiliation members those users who have accepted the offer and or those users who have not accepted the offer. The notification component may provide notifications giving an indication of how close to an acceptance threshold the members of the affiliation are at. Where the offer includes an offer for affiliation members to provide an accumulative amount of virtual currency and or virtual items in exchange for being provided an affiliation game unit the notification component may provide a notification giving an indication of the amount of virtual currency and or virtual items collectively provided by the affiliation members and or how much virtual currency and or virtual items are required from the affiliation members to receive the affiliation game unit and or upgrade the affiliation game unit.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The server may include one or more computer processors configured by machine readable instructions to perform one or more functions. The machine readable instructions may be thought of conceptually as components of the machine readable instructions. However this application includes all forms of machine readable instructions whether provided in component form or otherwise. The server may be configured to execute one or more computer program components. The computer program components may include one or more of a space component a user component a relationship component a virtual item component an offer component a distribution component a notification component and or other components.

The space component may facilitate participation by multiple users in an online game through client computing platforms associated with the users. The space component may be configured to execute an instance of the online game to facilitate presentation of the online game to the users. The game module may be configured to implement in game actions in the instance of the online game in response to actions requests for the in game actions from the users. The space component may be configured to facilitate user participation in the online game by effectuating transmission of information related to the instance of the online game to client computing platforms on which views of the online game are presented to users. The users may include a first user and a second user.

The space component may be configured to implement the instance of the virtual space executed by the computer components to determine the state of the virtual space. The state may then be communicated e.g. via streaming visual data via object position data and or other state information from server to client computing platforms for presentation to users. The state determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a view for a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform . The state determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space. The view described by the state for the given client computing platform may correspond for example to the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters of the view. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

The instance of the virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer components may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

The above description of the manner in which state of the virtual space is determined by space component is not intended to be limiting. The space component may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited or more rich manner. For example views determined for the virtual space representing the state of the instance of the virtual space may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content e.g. text audio pre stored video content and or other content that describes particulars of the current state of the place beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example a view may include a generic battle graphic with a textual description of the opponents to be confronted. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.

Within the instance s of the virtual space executed by space component users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through client computing platforms . The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms . Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through server e.g. through space component .

The instance of the virtual space and or the game that takes place therein may be persistent. That is the virtual space and or the game may continue on whether or not individual players are currently logged in and or participating in the game. A player that logs out of the virtual space and then logs back in some time later may find that the virtual space has been changed through the interactions of other players with the virtual space during the time the player was logged out. These changes may include changes to the simulated physical space changes in the player s inventory changes in other player s inventories changes experienced by non player characters and or other changes.

Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of a social network a virtual space a micro blogging service a blog service or host a browser based game a multi player mobile game a file e.g. image file video file and or other files sharing service a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users. Some non limiting specific examples of interactive electronic social media may include the micro blogging service provided by Twitter the social network provided by Facebook the social network provided by MySpace the social network provided by Foursquare the virtual world provided by Second Life the massively multi player online game provided by World of Warcraft the file sharing service provided by Flickr Blogger YouTube PlayStation Home Xbox Live and or other interactive electronic social media.

The user component may be configured to access and or manage one or more user profiles and or user information associated with users of the system . The one or more user profiles and or user information may include information stored by server one or more of the client computing platforms and or other storage locations. The user profiles may include for example information identifying users e.g. a username or handle a number an identifier and or other identifying information within the virtual space security login information e.g. a login code or password virtual space account information subscription information virtual currency account information e.g. related to currency held in credit for a user relationship information e.g. information related to relationships between users in the virtual space virtual space usage information demographic information associated with users interaction history among users in the virtual space information stated by users purchase information of users browsing history of users a client computing platform identification associated with a user a phone number associated with a user and or other information related to users.

The relationship component may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual space. Such relationships may include one or more of affiliation friendships guilds with guild mates alliances connections followers comrades teams cooperatives and or other relationships. The relationship component may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of a relationship may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting a relationship between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of a relationship may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual space and or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual space does not have a functional result.

The relationship component may be configured to manage one or more affiliations within the online game. A given affiliation within the online game may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the online game. The relationship having a functional significance in the online game may impact in game play for the users. The affiliations may comprise a first affiliation within a first online game between a group of users including the first user and the second user. The relationship having a functional significance may include one or more of a leadership role a controller role a mentorship role and or an administrator role.

The system may further comprise an interaction component. The interaction component may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual space and or each other within the virtual space. This may include monitoring for a given user one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual space areas of the virtual space the given user views or interacts with or in other users the given user interacts with the nature and or content of interactions of the given user with other users activities participated in within the virtual space level powers or skill attained in the virtual space inventory items obtained in the virtual space and or other interactions of the given user with the virtual space and or other users. Some or all of the information generated by the interaction component in monitoring the interactions of the users may be stored to the user profiles managed by user component .

At a given time the interaction component may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual space and or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual space. Being engaged with the virtual space may refer to being logged in to the virtual space performing some action or interaction within the virtual space within some period of time e.g. the last 2 minutes and or taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual space.

The interaction component may be configured to determine for individual users an activity metric that indicates an activity level within the virtual space. The activity metric may be determined based on one or more of log in frequency amount of time logged in to the virtual space within a rolling time period e.g. over the last day week month or other rolling time period average amount of time logged in to the virtual space over some length of time e.g. per day per week and or other length of time average log in session time over a rolling time period number of inter user communications over a length of time number of inter user communications per log in number of relationships with other users in the virtual space number of new relationships with other users in the virtual space within a rolling time period amount of real world money spent in the virtual space and or other activity parameters.

The virtual item component may be configured to provide affiliation game units associated with affiliations within the online game. The affiliation game units may be for example game characters realms associated with the affiliation buildings providing a benefit to users weapons associated with the affiliation vehicles associated with the affiliation symbolic virtual items associated with the affiliation and or other virtual items. The affiliation game units may be controllable in the online game by individual ones of the users in the affiliations with which they are associated. The affiliation game units may include a first affiliation game unit associated with the first affiliation.

Referring to disclosed is an affiliation game unit interface . The affiliation game unit interface may be configured to effectuate presentation of information about the affiliation game units available to members of the affiliation. The affiliation game unit interface may include a number of tabs associated with different aspects of the virtual space. For example in a game operated in the virtual space the game may include activities and virtual items associated with attacking or defending against attack from other users game characters realms and or virtual items. The game may include activities and virtual items associated with attacking or defending against attack from non player characters realms and or virtual items. The game may include activities associated with growing resources making resources and or developing industries generating resources and or other activities. There may be any number of tabs associated with any number of aspects of the virtual space. A user associated with an affiliation may access the affiliation game unit interface to view the attributes and or benefits of the affiliation game unit for the game activity. There may be multiple affiliation game units for each category type or sub category type of activity experienced by users in an online game conducted in a virtual space.

An affiliation game unit may be associated with a user s attacking and or defensive actions such an affiliation game unit may be a military type affiliation game unit . The military affiliation game unit may take an appearance associated with military activities such as a knight soldier general sailor admiral and or other appearances. The appearance of the affiliation game unit may be based on a faction affiliation race and or other characteristics of a user s game character.

The affiliation game units may include one or more benefit metrics wherein the benefit metrics indicate a benefit received by the affiliation members from the affiliation game unit . The benefit metrics may relate to the activity associated with the affiliation game unit . For example the benefit metrics of the military affiliation game unit may be associated with military type actions. Such military type benefit metrics may include attack strength defense strength attack speed fatigue cohesion effectiveness brutality skill and or other military type benefit metrics. The benefit metrics may have associated level values. The benefit metrics may comprise level values indicating a level of the benefit indicated by the benefit metric. For example the higher the level value of a benefit metric the more benefit is provided to the users of the affiliation. The level values associated with the benefit metrics may be presented in the affiliation game unit interface by level value bars associated with each level the more benefit is provided to the users of the affiliation.

In some implementations there may be multiple level values for the benefit metrics of an affiliation game unit. One method contemplated for upgrading affiliation game units by affiliation members is to permit the affiliation members individually or collectively to increase the benefits provided by the affiliation game units. The benefits may be increased individually such that for an affiliation game unit that provides multiple benefits to the users of the affiliation the value level of each benefit metric of the affiliation game unity may be increased independently of all other benefit metrics.

In some implementations the graphical bars may provide an indication of how close the affiliation members are to obtaining the next level value of each benefit metric provided by the affiliation game unit. In the example shown in the alliance members may be much closer to obtaining the next level value for the fatigue benefit metric compared to the brutality level metric. In other implementations the graphical bars may represent the level value of the benefit metrics. In such implementations the graphical bar associated with the fatigue benefit metric may move further to the left as the affiliation game unit is upgraded whereas the graphical bars associated with the other benefit metrics may move further to the right when the affiliation game unit is upgraded.

The types of benefit metrics provided by the affiliation game units are not limited to the disclosure herein nor to those disclosed in the Figures. Affiliation game units may provide benefits to members of an alliance with which the affiliation game units are associated for any manner of activities events and or actions within the virtual space. In some implementations the benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to increased stamina cohesion effectiveness brutality speed power and or other parameters for users armed forces within the game. The benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to increased production yield effectiveness multiplication and or other parameters for users resources within the online game. The benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to a benefit over other members of different affiliations. The benefit metrics may reflect increased responsiveness of the virtual space environment to users of the affiliation. The benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to availability of game elements such as quests missions map areas and or other game elements within the virtual space. The benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to a multiplier for users of an affiliation when users are purchasing virtual currency to use in the virtual space. The benefit metrics may reflect but not be limited to a discount when purchasing in game items by users of the affiliation.

The offer component may be configured to effectuate presentation of offers to the users having a given affiliation for affiliation game units. The offers may include a first offer of a first affiliation game unit. The offers may include a user cost associated with the offer such that the first offer is for a first affiliation game unit in exchange for a first associated user cost. The offers may include a notification to the user having a given affiliation to provide one or more virtual items to increase a benefit level and or the benefit type of the one or more benefit metrics of a given affiliation game unit associated with the affiliation. For example a first offer may be provided to the users of the first affiliation to provide one or more virtual items in exchange for increasing the first benefit level of the first benefit metric of the first affiliation unit associated with the first affiliation.

The affiliation game unit may be a game unit which when used by a member of the affiliation may provide a benefit to the user. For example if the affiliation game unit is a military general use of the affiliation game unit being a military general may provide a benefit to the member in battles against other users. Other users against which the affiliation game unit is used may be users not being part of the affiliation.

The affiliation game unit may provide a benefit when the users are engaged in individual endeavors. The affiliation game unit may provide a benefit when the users are engaged in affiliation based endeavors. Individual ones of the affiliation game units may be provided to the individual members of the affiliation when awarded to the affiliation members. One affiliation game unit may be awarded to the affiliation members providing a benefit to the affiliation individually and or as a whole.

The affiliation game unit may be controllable by users of the affiliation within the online game. For example both the first user and the second user may control the affiliation game unit by virtue of their inclusion in the first affiliation. The affiliation unit may be controllable by individual ones of the discrete group of users. The individual ones of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation that are able to control the one or more affiliation game units may have a relationship having a functional significance with the other users of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation. The individual ones of the discrete group of users in the given affiliation able to control a given affiliation game unit may include users having an indication of a priority for controlling the given affiliation game unit.

The affiliation game unit may not be controllable by the members of the affiliation and instead may be provided to the members of the affiliation and the members of the affiliation may receive a benefit by virtue of the affiliation game unit being provided to them. The affiliation game unit may be upgraded such that users may provide additional virtual items to increase the level values of the benefit metrics and or provide additional virtual items to increase the number and or type of the benefit metrics.

The offer component may be configured to effectuate presentation of offers to the users having a given affiliation to purchase one or more virtual items for increasing a benefit level and or benefit type of the one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation game character associated with the given affiliation. The notification component may be configured to provide notifications to users of the affiliation indicating the offer for the affiliation game unit. The notification component may be configured to provide notifications to the members of a given affiliation giving an indication of the number percentage and or proportion of users in a given affiliation that have accepted the offer. The notification component may provide messages to users providing encouragement to accept the offer. The notification component may facilitate identifying to affiliation members those users who have accepted the offer and or those users who have not accepted the offer. The notification component may provide notifications giving an indication of how close the members of the affiliation are to an acceptance threshold. Where the offer includes an offer for affiliation members to provide an accumulative amount of virtual currency and or virtual items in exchange for being provided an affiliation game unit the notification component may provide a notification giving an indication of the amount of virtual currency and or virtual items collectively provided by the affiliation members and or how much virtual currency and or virtual items are required from the affiliation members to receive the affiliation game unit and or upgrade the affiliation game unit.

Referring to illustrated is an interface for providing offers to users having an affiliation for affiliation game units in accordance with one or more implementations. The offer may be to obtain an affiliation game unit for the users having an associated affiliation. The interface may be configured to effectuate presentation of the offer to users through associated client computing platforms as shown in . The interface may present a title and or notification to the users providing an indication of the identity of the affiliation game unit that will be obtained by enough users of the affiliation accepting the offer . The interface may facilitate presentation of a progress notification providing an indication of the number and or amount of users of the affiliation who have so far accepted the offer . The interface may facilitate presentation of a notification providing an indication of the number and or amount of users of the affiliation required to accept the offer before the users associated with the affiliation will be provided with the affiliation game unit .

The interface may provide an indication of one or more benefit metrics associated with the offered affiliation game unit . The one or more benefit metrics may be associated with benefits provided to the users having an affiliation once the users accept the offer . The interface may effectuate presentation of level values of the benefit metrics associated with the affiliation game unit . The interface may effectuate presentation of an indication to the users of the associated user cost that the user having the affiliation must provide to accept the offer . In some implementations the first offer may comprise a first associated user cost . The first associated user cost may comprise multiple virtual items that the user is required to provide in order to accept the first offer . In some implementations the user may be required to provide quantities of the different virtual items required of the user to accept the offer . In some implementations the user may be required to select which of the quantities of virtual items the user will provide to accept the offer. In the example shown in the first associated user cost comprises either one thousand five hundred Aetherstones or one Special Gem. In some implementations for users who do not wish to provide the requested virtual items the users may provide different virtual items such as currency. Such currency may be in the form of precious metal gems credits and or other virtual currencies. The interface may include one or more user selectable buttons configured to facilitate acceptance or rejection of the offer by the user. The interface may comprise other user selectable buttons and or user enterable fields. The interface may be configured to facilitate the user selecting and or entering the types and quantities of the virtual items associated with the user cost associated with the offer . In some implementations the virtual items of the associated cost will be set and the user will have to provide the set virtual items associated with the user cost of the offer.

The virtual item component may be configured to increase a level value of one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game units. The virtual item component may increase the level value of the one or more benefit metrics in response to the users in the affiliations providing one or more virtual items. For example a first level value of a first benefit metric of the first affiliation game unit may be increased in response to the first user providing one or more virtual items. The first level value of a first benefit metric of the first affiliation game unit may be increased in response to the first user and the second user providing one or more virtual items.

The upgrade offer may include an associated user cost to accept the upgrade offer. The upgrade interface may facilitate presentation of the associated user cost for accepting the offer as described above. The upgrade interface may facilitate selection and or entry by the user of an indication that the user intends to make a purchase of virtual items so that the user has sufficient virtual items to meet the requirements of the offer. For example the upgrade interface may include a user selectable button which will launch a virtual shop for facilitating the purchase of in game virtual items. The user may be able to accept the offer to upgrade the affiliation game unit by providing a virtual currency real currency and or other currency instead of providing the required virtual items. The virtual items required to be provided by the users to accept the upgrade offer or any offer may relate to the affiliation game unit associated with the offer. Where the affiliation game unit is a military type affiliation game unit the members of the affiliation may be required to provide military type virtual items in order to accept the offer. Where the affiliation game unit is an industrial type affiliation game unit the members of the affiliation may be required to provide industrial type virtual items in order to accept the offer. The upgrade interface may include a user selectable button to accept or reject the upgrade offer .

The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics may be based on the amount of users having the given affiliation that provide one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the proportion of the user having a given affiliation that has provided one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the number of users having a given affiliation that have provided one or more virtual items to upgrade the affiliation game unit exceeding one or more thresholds. The amount of increase of the level value of the one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game item may be based on the cumulative value of the virtual items provided by the users having a given affiliation to upgrade the affiliation game unit.

The one or more benefit metrics of the one or more affiliation game units may have one or more discrete benefit level values and the virtual item component may be configured to promote the one or more benefit metrics from a first benefit level value to a second benefit level value in response to a threshold amount of the users having a given affiliation providing a threshold amount of one or more virtual items to promote the one or more affiliation character units. The upgrade offer may include an offer to upgrade all of the benefit metrics of the associated affiliation game unit . The upgrade offer may include an offer to upgrade individual ones of the benefit metrics of the associated affiliation game unit . The upgrade offer may include an offer to increase the number and or type of the benefit metrics provided to the user of the affiliation. The upgrade offer may include an offer to modify and or change the benefit metrics of the affiliation game unit .

The perceived value of the virtual items required of the users to upgrade the affiliation game unit may increase as the perceived benefit of the level value of the benefit metrics and or the perceived benefit of the benefit metrics increase.

The virtual items requested from the users in exchange for the affiliation game units may include one or more of resources obtained in the virtual space attacking troop units defensive troop units virtual items obtained in the virtual space virtual items purchased from a game shop and or virtual currency. Virtual currency may take any form such as coins experience points gems precious stones precious metals game items game units virtual realms virtual buildings and or other virtual items having a perceived value in the virtual space and or online game.

The distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game units in response to the users having a given affiliation accepting the offer. The distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game unit upon the occurrence of one or more of the events described above with respect to the number amount threshold or other measurement of users accepting the offer. For example the distribution component may be configured to provide the affiliation game unit to one or more members having a given affiliation in response to the number of users accepting the offer exceeding a threshold number of users exceeding an obtained number of users or exceeding an obtained percentage of users of the affiliation accepting the offer.

Referring again to the server client computing platforms secondary servers and or external resources may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via a network such as the Internet and or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which servers client computing platforms and or external resources may be operatively linked via some other communication media. The processors may be configured to execute computer program components. The processors may be configured to execute the computer program components via one or more of hardware software and or firmware. Although system may be described in certain sections herein as including secondary servers this is not intended to be limiting. The secondary servers may be separate and distinct from system and may be provided by an entity that is separate from for example the entity providing secondary servers . In some implementations the functionality attributed herein to the server client computing platforms secondary servers and one or more other elements may be provided by any of the elements.

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program components. The computer program components may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with system and or external resources and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computing platform a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

The external resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

The server may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server in is not intended to be limiting. Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with server and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received from server information received from client computing platforms and or other information that enables server to function as described herein.

Processor s may be configured to provide information processing capabilities in server . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute components and or other components. Processor may be configured to execute these components by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although components and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of components and or other components may be located remotely from the other components. The description of the functionality provided by the different components and or other components described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of components and or other components may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of components and or other components may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of components and or other components. As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional components that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of components and or other components.

In some embodiments method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation participation by multiple users in an online game may be facilitated. Facilitating participation by multiple users in the online game may be done through client computing platforms associated with the users. The operations at may be performed by a space component such as space component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation one or more affiliations within the online game may be managed. The one or more affiliations may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the online game that has an impact on game play wherein the affiliations comprise a first affiliation within a first online game between a group of users including a first user and a second user. The relationship having a functional significance may include one or more of a leadership role a controller role a mentorship role and or an administrator role. The operations at may be performed by a relationship component such as relationship component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation affiliation game units associated with affiliations within the online game may be provided to affiliation members. The affiliation game units may be controllable in the online game by individual ones of the users in the affiliations with which they are associated. The affiliation game units may include a first affiliation game unit associated with the first affiliation. In some implementations the affiliation game units may be controllable in the online game by select individual members of the affiliation. In other implementations the affiliation game units may be controllable by multiple members of the affiliation. The first affiliation game unit may be controllable by both the first user and the second user by virtue of their inclusion in the first affiliation. The operations at may be performed by a virtual item component such as virtual item component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation a level value of one or more benefit metrics of the affiliation game units may be increased. The level values of the one or more benefit metrics may be increased in response to the users in the affiliations providing one or more virtual items such that a first level value of a first benefit metric of the first affiliation game unit may be increased in response to the first user and the second user providing one or more virtual items. The amount of increase in the level value may be based on the amount of users having the given affiliation that provide one or more virtual items to increase the level of the one or more benefit metrics of a given affiliation unit and based on the amount of one or more virtual items provided by the users having the given affiliation. The operations at may be performed by a virtual item component such as virtual item component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

In some embodiments method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation presentation of offers may be effectuated to the users having a given affiliation wherein the offers include providing one or more virtual items to increase a benefit level of the one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation unit associated with the given affiliation. An offer may be provided to the users of the first affiliation to provide one or more virtual items for increasing the first benefit level of the first benefit metric of the first affiliation unit associated with the first affiliation. In some implementations at an operation the offers may include providing one or more affiliation game units to users having a given affiliation. The offers to the users having a given affiliation may include offers to purchase one or more virtual items in exchange for increasing the benefit level of the one or more benefit metrics of the given affiliation game character associated with the given affiliation. The operations at may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation acceptance of the offers to the users having the affiliation may be received. The operations at may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation determination of whether a threshold number of affiliation members have accepted the offer may be made. The threshold number of affiliation members may be a number of members a percentage of members a threshold of members and or other measurements of the proportion of members who have accepted the offer to obtain and or upgrade the affiliation game unit. The operations at may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations. The operations at may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

In response to determining that the number of affiliation members who have accepted the offer has not breached the threshold at an operation presentation of the offer to obtain the affiliation game unit to affiliation members may be effectuated. In some implementations notifications to members who have not accepted the offer may be effectuated wherein the notifications provide encouragement to users to accept the offer. The operations at may be performed by an offer component and or a notification component such as offer component and or notification component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

In response to determining that the number of affiliation members who have accepted the offer has not breached the threshold at an operation presentation of notifications to members of the affiliation who have accepted the offer may be effectuated. The notifications may provide an indication of the identity of the affiliation members who have not accepted the offer. The notifications may provide an indication that the members who have accepted the offer encourage those who have not accepted the offer to do so. The operations at may be performed by an a notification component such as notification component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

In response to determining that the number of affiliation members who have accepted the offer has breached the threshold at an operation the affiliation game unit and or the upgrade to the affiliation game unit may be provided to members of the affiliation. The operations at may be performed by an a distribution component such as distribution component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

In some embodiments method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation a time period may be obtained during which the offer to provide and or upgrade one or more affiliation game units is to be provided to members of an affiliation. The operations performed at the operation may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation presentation of the offer may be facilitated to members of the affiliation responsive to an indication that the time period obtained at the operation has commenced. The operations performed at the operation may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation presentation of the offer may be ceased responsive to an indication that the time period obtained at the operation expiring. The operations performed at the operation may be performed by an offer component such as offer component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation determination of a level and or type of an affiliation game unit or a level and or type of upgrade to an affiliation game unit may be made. The determination made at the operation may be based on the amount of affiliation members who accepted the offer during the time period. For example where a large proportion of the affiliation members accepted the offer the level type of the affiliation game unit and or the amount of upgrade for the affiliation game unit may be relatively high whereas where a small proportion of the affiliation members accepted the offer the level type of the affiliation game unit and or the amount of upgrade for the affiliation game unit may be relatively low. A high level and or type of an affiliation game unit and or upgrade may translate into a relatively increased benefit to members of the affiliation wherein the benefit impacts game play in the virtual space. A low level and or type of an affiliation game unit and or upgrade may translate into a relatively decreased benefit to members of the affiliation. The operations at may be performed by a distribution component such as distribution component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation the affiliation game unit and or the upgrade determined at operation may be provided to the members of the affiliation. All members of the affiliation may receive the affiliation game unit and or upgrade. In some implementations only those members who accepted the offer may receive the affiliation game unit and or upgrade. The operations at may be performed by an a distribution component such as distribution component shown in in accordance with one or more implementations.

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

