---

title: Managing traffic flow
abstract: A method for tracking and routing traffic to avoid congestion via a plurality of user devices including providing a traffic reservation user interface for receiving a plurality of path selections from the plurality of user devices; responsive to predicting a traffic congestion from the plurality of user devices taking into account real-time and predicted conditions, presenting a first set of users with a first set of route selection recommendations via the user interface; and responsive to receiving a plurality of actual routing selections from the first set of users from the user interface, adjusting the traffic prediction, and presenting a second set of users with a second set of route selection recommendations via the user interface to reduce expected traffic congestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105185&OS=09105185&RS=09105185
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09105185
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140921
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 13 965 995 filed Aug. 13 2013 entitled MANAGING TRAFFIC FLOW the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to managing traffic flow and in particular to a computer implemented method for utilizing a route reservation system for managing traffic flow to avoid congestion.

Many cities worldwide experience increases in daily traffic on roads and highways faster than those roads and highways can be widened or new roads and highways built. As a result congestion on those roads and highways continues to increase thereby wasting time and money for those sitting or creeping in traffic as well as their employers. There are many causes of congestion when roads and highways are at or near full capacity including bottlenecks traffic accidents bad weather work zones poor traffic signal timing special events etc.

As a result cities and other governmental entities have implemented a variety of solutions to reduce traffic congestions including special commuter lanes for vehicles with two or more passengers prepositioned tow trucks during rush hour to quickly handle vehicle breakdowns live video cameras to monitor traffic electronic billboards to warn drivers of road issues etc. Even with these and other changes the problems of congestion continue to worsen for many cities.

The illustrative embodiments provide a method for tracking and routing traffic to avoid congestion via a plurality of user devices including providing a traffic reservation user interface for receiving a plurality of path selections from the plurality of user devices responsive to predicting a traffic congestion from the plurality of user devices taking into account real time and predicted conditions at least one of which is selected from the group of road traffic and weather conditions presenting a first set of users with a first set of route selection recommendations via the user interface and responsive to receiving a plurality of actual routing selections from the first set of users from the user interface adjusting the traffic prediction according to the predicted conditions and the actual routing selections and presenting a second set of users with a second set of route selection recommendations via the user interface to reduce expected traffic congestion.

Processes and devices may be implemented and utilized for managing traffic flow. These processes and apparatuses may be implemented and utilized as will be explained with reference to the various embodiments below.

In data processing system there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments peripherals or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in data processing system is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of non transitory computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include non transitory computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other non transitory removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a USB interface for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic chip e.g. a flash drive and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. Memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of the embodiments. Memory may also include data that will be processed by a program product.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of the embodiments. For example a program module may be software for managing traffic flow.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces through wired connections or wireless connections. Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers tape drives RAID systems redundant processing units data archival storage systems external disk drive arrays etc.

Server and client are coupled to network along with storage unit . In addition laptop and facility such as a home or business are coupled to network including wirelessly such as through a network router . A mobile phone and a vehicle may be coupled to network through a mobile phone tower . Data processing systems such as server client laptop mobile phone vehicle and facility contain data and have software applications including software tools executing thereon. Other types of data processing systems such as personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones tablets and netbooks may be coupled to network .

Server may include software application and data for managing traffic flow or other software applications and data in accordance with embodiments described herein. Storage may contain software application and a content source such as data for managing traffic flow. Other software and content may be stored on storage for sharing among various computer or other data processing devices. Client may include software application and data . Laptop and mobile phone may also include software applications and and data and . Vehicle may include a navigation system or other hardware that includes software applications and data . Facility may include software applications and data . Other types of data processing systems coupled to network may also include software applications. Software applications could include a web browser email or other software application for managing traffic flow.

Server storage unit client laptop mobile phone vehicle facility and other data processing devices may couple to network using wired connections wireless communication protocols or other suitable data connectivity. Client may be for example a personal computer or a network computer.

In the depicted example server may provide data such as boot files operating system images and applications to client and laptop . Server may be a single computer system or a set of multiple computer systems working together to provide services in a client server environment. Client and laptop may be clients to server in this example. Client laptop mobile phone vehicle and facility or some combination thereof may include their own data boot files operating system images and applications. Data processing environment may include additional servers clients and other devices that are not shown.

In the depicted example data processing environment may be the Internet. Network may represent a collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and other protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of data communication links between major nodes or host computers including thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course data processing environment also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

Among other uses data processing environment may be used for implementing a client server environment in which the embodiments may be implemented. A client server environment enables software applications and data to be distributed across a network such that an application functions by using the interactivity between a client data processing system and a server data processing system. Data processing environment may also employ a service oriented architecture where interoperable software components distributed across a network may be packaged together as coherent business applications.

Other types of inputs are also available including incentives and other factors . For example tolls may be reduced or increased for certain areas to encourage or discourage travel along certain routes. Certain lanes may be by reservation only. Other incentives may be utilized including discounts on certain goods or services parking spaces reserved close to destination points towards certain clubs or airlines or other monetary and non monetary incentives.

Concurrent user route selections and reservations may also be provided. These are routes chosen or assigned to other users of this system. These routes can be selections or reservations of route alternatives provided to other users of this system. A route may be composed of a set of segments each segment having a limitation of traffic that can be handled without congestion that limit changing based on current real time conditions such as weather traffic and road construction. Such information may also be stored by route segment in an historical database for statistical analysis and utilization. For example historical information can show which incentives work for certain user profiles to encourage alternative routes. Other types of statistical analysis may be useful for determining how best to encourage desirable user behavior in utilizing the system.

The above described inputs are then provided across communication line s to a traffic route reservation engine for managing traffic flow to avoid congestion. Engine can also utilize input from a map across communication line for identifying various route alternatives with the above inputs. Engine can be a data processing unit such as described above with reference to . A user using a user device can transmit a route inquiry across communication line to engine through an API application program interface . The route inquiry can include a current or planned starting location a destination any preferences and other factors which could assist the engine in determining the best alternative routes for the user given the other inputs provided above. Preferences and other factors can include whether the driver is disabled avoids freeways prefers less time driving over distance traveled whether the driver wants to avoid tolls etc. User device may be a mobile device such as a smart phone with a cellular communication . Other mobile devices may be utilized including a notebook a tablet a GPS global positioning system unit such as a vehicle navigation system etc. The user device may also be a less mobile device such as a home computer work computer that the user can access prior to traveling. API can be a smart phone app a webpage or other type of software interface for communicating with engine . Engine can include an online route reservation marketplace which allows users to trade auction or otherwise commoditize and assign to other vehicles and or drivers. Use of such a marketplace is described in greater detail below.

Once the user sends an inquiry across communication line engine determines and provides one or more alternative routes across communication line for the user to select. Such route choices can include travel distance expected travel time and other factors which can assist the user to make an informed decision. These route choices can also include incentives such as described above. Once received the user can then make the selection and provide that selection to engine . The selection can then be utilized by engine in providing alternative routes and incentives to other users as well as in providing travel times taking into account prior user selections. The user selection is also provided by engine across communication line to user route selection database and historical database . The user selection provided can include information regarding incentives offered alternatives provided etc. for possible statistical analysis. To avoid latency the user selection may be provided directly to user route selection database and historical database by API .

A system for managing traffic flow can be utilized for improving traffic congestion. For example such as traffic flow system could enable drivers to select routes that coincide with the latest designated preferred routes to a given even or location or to avoid routes that are designated as undesirable routes to enable event coordinators sellers or local public works departments to reward preferred traffic behavior to create markets for trading assigned traffic routings.

In response to the request in step the reservation engine generates various alternative routes meeting the preferences of the user with travel distances and estimated travel time based on historical data. This historical data can include the day of the week the time of day and other repeating historical information. Alternative routes can include alternative times of travel particularly if the user is reserving a route ahead of time. A route may be composed of a set of segments each segment having a limitation of traffic that can be handled without congestion that limit changing based on current real time conditions such as weather traffic and road construction. Then in step those estimated travel times are adjusted based on current and expected traffic weather special events road conditions etc. as well as route selections of other users. These adjustments are generally based on real time or current conditions that may not have been predicted from historical information although such historical information may be useful in determining the effects of current conditions e.g. effect of rain on traffic patterns and congestion . Subsequently in step the routes are then initially prioritized based on user preferences e.g. time versus distance . For example the user may need to be at a certain location by a certain time. In such a case the user is mostly time sensitive unless there are several routes which would meet the user s time constraints in which case the user may prefer the route with the shortest distance that meets the user s time constraints. Alternatively preferences of the metropolitan area may also be utilized to prioritize the routes. For example if there is a desire to reduce downtown traffic during certain periods of time then routes through downtown may be reduced in priority based on those criteria.

In step the routes are then reviewed for choke points or unacceptable traffic congestion. This can include looking at expected congestion based on predicted road traffic and weather conditions including historical patterns weather forecasts planned road construction etc. If the reservation is requested close to the time of travel current conditions may be utilized as well such as from video cameras or under road detectors of vehicle traffic accident reports etc. Unacceptable traffic congestion may include determining that too many users have reserved the same route segment s at the same time of travel. That is prior route selections of other users can be utilized to predict traffic congestion. If certain routes are determined to be unacceptably congested in step then processing continues to step otherwise processing continues to step . In step unacceptable routes are deleted from the set which may be shown to the user. That is some routes may not be shown to the user as an option as no more persons should be sent on those routes due to excessive congestion. For example if a highway is closed due to a bad accident and users can only travel on the access roads to that highway all users may be directed to other routes until the route has been cleared. This allows for emergency vehicles such as ambulances to more easily travel to the accident location. In step it is determined whether there are a sufficient number of routes remaining for the user to choose from e.g. at least three . A single route may be sufficient in some applications. If there are not a sufficient number of acceptable routes then processing returns to step for generating more routes otherwise processing continues to step . In step the top remaining routes according to user preferences e.g. top five are then reprioritized based on avoiding congestion unless the user directs otherwise. That is users are encouraged to utilize routes that do not add to traffic congestion.

In step it is determined whether incentives should be provided to the user based on the amount of congestion for certain routes and the effect on user preferences. For example if the best route from a user preference perspective is the worst route from a congestion perspective then certain incentives may be provided to the user. This allows for accommodations to the user when the interests of the user user preferences differ from the interests of the public to reduce congestion . If yes in step then processing continues to step otherwise processing continues to step . In step those incentives are generated and prepared for offering to the user. For example those incentives can include green points reduced tolls etc. Processing then continues to step .

In step the top remaining routes including any incentives are shown to the user for selection. These routes do not include any unacceptable routes per step above and are prioritized according to congestion avoidance. In some applications a single route may be displayed to the user. In step the user then either rejects these choices makes a selection or exits processing without a selection. If rejected then processing returns to step above for further route generation. If a route is selected then processing continues to step where the user selection is documented as a reservation and stored in memory for use in determining congestion for other users. This reservation may include multiple road segments reserved at certain time periods and each such road segment reservation may identify the driver and a queue position for that drive. The queue position may be based on when the reservation was made or on other factors such as whether the driver has a good record of utilizing his or her assigned reservations on time. In addition any incentives accepted by the user are awarded to that user. Processing then exits.

In response to the request in step the reservation engine generates various alternative routes meeting the preferences of the user with travel distances and estimated travel time based on historical data. This historical data can include the day of the week the time of day and other repeating historical information. Alternative routes can include alternative times of travel particularly if the user is reserving a route ahead of time. A route may be composed of a set of segments each segment having a limitation of traffic that can be handled without congestion that limit changing based on current conditions such as weather and road construction. Then in step those estimated travel times are adjusted based on current and expected traffic weather special events road conditions etc. as well as route selections of other users. These adjustments are generally based on real time or current conditions that may not have been predicted from historical information although such historical information may be useful in determining the effects of current conditions e.g. effect of rain on traffic patterns and congestion . Subsequently in step the routes are then initially prioritized based on user preferences e.g. time versus distance . For example the user may need to be at a certain location by a certain time. In such a case the user is mostly time sensitive unless there are several routes which would meet the user s time constraints in which case the user may prefer the route with the shortest distance that meets the user s time constraints. Alternatively preferences of the metropolitan area may also be utilized to prioritize the routes. For example if there is a desire to reduce downtown traffic during certain periods of time then routes through downtown may be reduced in priority based on those criteria.

In step the routes are then reviewed for choke points or unacceptable traffic congestion. This can include looking at expected congestion based on predicted road traffic and weather conditions including historical patterns weather forecasts planned road construction etc. If the reservation is requested close to the time of travel current conditions may be utilized as well such as from video cameras or under road detectors of vehicle traffic accident reports etc. Unacceptable traffic congestion may include determining that too many users have reserved the same route segment at the same time of travel. That is prior route selections of other users can be utilized to predict traffic congestion. If certain routes are determined to be unacceptably congested in step then processing continues to step otherwise processing continues to step . In step unacceptable routes are flagged for special processing as described below. That is some routes may be shown to the user with special notification or with special considerations as no more persons should be sent on those routes due to excessive congestion. For example if a highway is closed due to a bad accident and users can only travel on the access roads to that highway all users interested in that route may be provided an explanation of why that route should not be taken until the route has been cleared. This allows for emergency vehicles such as ambulances to more easily travel to the accident location. In step it is determined whether there are a sufficient number of acceptable routes generated for the user to choose from e.g. at least three . If not then processing returns to step for generating more routes otherwise processing continues to step . In step the routes not flagged above are ranked according to congestion. That is the amount of delays that a user may expect for a given route is utilized for ranking the routes. This can be utilized to identify those routes where user preferences are in conflict with expected congestion. That is users may be encouraged to utilize routes that do not add to traffic congestion. In step the routes are then prioritized from a combination of user preferences and congestion. That is those that are not flagged as unacceptably congested are ranked by user preferences followed by those that are flagged also ranked by user preferences. Charges may also be levied for unacceptable routes. That is the driver may choose an unacceptable route but may lose points or be charged certain fees by selecting an unacceptable route.

In step it is determined whether incentives should be provided to the user based on the amount of congestion for certain routes and the effect on user preferences. For example if the best route s from a user preference perspective is flagged as an unacceptable route or is one of the worst ranked routes from a congestion perspective then certain incentives may be provided to the user. This allows for accommodations to the user when the interests of the user user preferences differ from the interests of the public to reduce congestion . If yes in step then processing continues to step otherwise processing continues to step . In step those incentives are generated and prepared for offering to the user. For example those incentives can include green points reduced tolls etc. Processing then continues to step .

In step the top routes including any incentives are shown to the user for selection. Those that are flagged as unacceptably congested are highlighted in red or otherwise indicated as such. In step the user then either rejects these choices makes a selection or exits processing without a selection. If rejected then processing returns to step above for further route generation. If a route is selected then processing continues to step where the user selection is documented as a reservation and stored in memory for use in determining congestion for other users. This reservation may include multiple road segments reserved at certain time periods and each such road segment reservation may identify the driver and a queue position for that drive. The queue position may be based on when the reservation was made or on other factors such as whether the vehicle has multiple occupants. In addition any incentives accepted by the user are awarded to that user. Processing then exits.

In a first step it is determined whether any of the road segments have substantially more or less congestion than expected. This information can come from accident reports congestion readings such as from video cameras or under road detectors of vehicle traffic accident reports etc. It can also include route reservations or cancellations. If yes in step then in step it is determined whether certain route reservations may be modified to adapt to the congestion readings. If yes in step then in step route adjustments may be sent to various users to make those adjustments based on queue position and the current location of a user. For example if a set of road segments have less congestion than expected then high priority users based on queue position which could take advantage of that less congestion are notified of the alternative route and are offered the opportunity to select the alternative less congested route. This can occur before the user starts his or her route or may occur while the user is in transit. If while in transit then the information may be provided such that it does not disrupt the driving of the user such as by automated voice communication through the user s smart phone or navigation system. For another example if a set of road segments have more congestion than expected then low priority users based on queue position may be requested to take an alternative route to relieve that congestion perhaps with incentives. Alternatively high priority users may be offered these alternative routes. If the offers are selected accepted in step which may be accomplished through a voice command if the user is in transit then in step the queues for each route segment are updated accordingly. If no in steps or or after step processing then continues to step .

In step it is determined whether users are properly utilizing the reservations provided to them earlier. This can be performed if the users have smartphones and applications that allow GPS coordinates to be sent to the reservation system. Alternatively license plates of vehicles can be identified through video cameras or toll tags may be read even if not charged to identify vehicles. In yes in step then in step the user utilizing a reservation properly during the reservation time then that user may be assigned an award be given a higher priority for receiving a better queue number for future reserved route segments etc. Processing then continues from step to step . If no in step then in step the user not utilizing a reservation properly during the reservation time may be docked points be given a lower priority for receiving a lower queue number for future reserved route segments etc. Process then continues to step .

In step vehicles and drivers on the roads that do not have reservations may be identified. If yes then in step the owners of those vehicles or the drivers may then be sent information regarding the reservation system and how it can be utilized. For example where identified an email or regular mail may be sent to those owners and drivers not utilizing the reservation system. Processing then either exits or returns to step above for repeating periodically.

A market place for route reservations may be implemented for various embodiments. That is route reservations or segments thereof may be traded auctioned or otherwise commoditized and assigned to other vehicles and or drivers. In such a case an online marketplace may be set up for such activities such as shown as element in above. For example a user may make a reservation for traveling a particular route periodically then find that a vacation or business travel will occur instead for a particular date. As a result the user may wish to trade or auction the route rather than cancel the route or simply take no action and not utilize the scheduled route. An additional example a user may wish to leave late from work to go home due to unforeseen circumstances at work or at home. As a result the user may wish to gain credit for traveling during non peak times and be placed in higher queue during the next planned trip. For another example a user may automatically be allowed to obtain a priority route reservation when acquiring a ticket to a special event such as a symphony. When the ticket is acquired the user may then make a reservation from his or her place of business or residence to and from the venue including reserving and paying for parking in a designated area or parking spot. The priority for the route reservation and the most direct route may depend on several factors such as price paid for the event ticket whether the ticket was purchased earlier or later etc. For a third example a business entity may acquire a set of tickets for a special event such as a concert with a set of route segment reservations to travel to and or exit the venue possibly including parking reservations. Such routes may be a valuable commodity and may be allowed to be exchanged in a managed on line marketplace. Such a marketplace can establish a value for route reservations thereby increase the desirability of making those route reservations. That value may be monetary points coupons or other items of value to users.

Each route reservation includes header information and route information . Header information includes user or vehicle identification such as a user driver s license number and a vehicle license plate number . The vehicle license plate number may be utilized for tracking or statistical purposes. For example the vehicle license plate number may be compared with license plate numbers identified with video cameras located throughout the metropolitan area. Also included in header are the start location of the user which can be a specific address or a general area for privacy protection purposes the desired destination any timing information such as start time and preferred destination time any user preferences whether there are passengers the type of vehicle e.g. electric cars may be given priority preferred path types e.g. HOV lanes if passengers included etc. Additional information can be included in header including priority. Some header information such as information about the driver or the vehicle may be contained in a separate centralized database linked by driver or vehicle identifiers IDs .

Route information includes a series of contiguous route segments each route segment including a route segment identifier ID a start time and an end time . The segment ID can correspond to segments of a map database of the map area e.g. a metropolitan area . The start time and the end time can be calculated based on congestion weather etc. and can be adjusted according to real time information such as weather accidents etc.

Additional or different information may be captured and stored in such a database of route information. This information may be linked through identifiers with other databases. Statistical information may be captured and or derived from such route information to assist in improving the predicting congestion and in rerouting traffic to avoid or prevent such congestion.

There are three main parts to this user interface a data entry and display area a map interface and a route instruction area . Data entry and display area may be utilized to enter information or to display previously entered information such as vehicle information accessed from a separate database through the vehicle identifier.

Map interface is utilized to display a map where the desired route can be selected and displayed. For example the user may utilize a cursor and mouse or other user interface device to select a start location which is identified with an X and a destination which is identified with a circle . Two or more route choices may be displayed with the recommended route choice shown as a solid line and a secondary choice shown as a dotted line. Expected time and distance information may also be displayed. The user can then select the desired route from these choices. Route instruction area can then be utilized to provide route details. Such information can be provided by voice through a GPS map device or the like. Many other types of user interfaces may be utilized to capture and display the desired information for the user.

The invention can take the form of an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the embodiments are implemented in software or program code which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software and microcode.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software microcode etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electromagnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communications link. This communications link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage media and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage media during execution.

A data processing system may act as a server data processing system or a client data processing system. Server and client data processing systems may include data storage media that are computer usable such as being computer readable. A data storage medium associated with a server data processing system may contain computer usable code such as for managing traffic flow. A client data processing system may download that computer usable code such as for storing on a data storage medium associated with the client data processing system or for using in the client data processing system. The server data processing system may similarly upload computer usable code from the client data processing system such as a content source. The computer usable code resulting from a computer usable program product embodiment of the illustrative embodiments may be uploaded or downloaded using server and client data processing systems in this manner.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

