---

title: Systems and methods for incentivizing user feedback for translation processing
abstract: Systems and methods of various embodiments may enable or refine translation of text between a first language and a second language. In particular, systems and methods may enable or refine a text translation by soliciting and/or receiving feedback for: translation of a first word or phrase from a first language to a second language; transformation of the first word or phrase (in the first language) to a second word or phrase in the first language; or transformation of the first word or phrase (in the first language) to a second word or phrase in the second language. The systems and methods of various embodiments may incentivize user feedback for failed translations in order to encourage user feedback, improve the quality of user feedback received, and to permit development of translation corpora that can evolve with time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348818&OS=09348818&RS=09348818
owner: Machine Zone, Inc.
number: 09348818
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 908 979 filed Jun. 3 2013 entitled Systems and Methods for Incentivizing User Feedback for Translation Processing which is a continuation in part of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 763 565 filed Feb. 8 2013 entitled Systems and Methods for Multi User Multi Lingual Communications and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 778 282 filed Mar. 12 2013 entitled Group Chat Translation Systems and Methods each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention s generally relate to communications and more particularly communications across the world involving multiple users and multiple languages.

Before the advent of machine based language translations hereafter machine translations translation between two languages was only possible via intervention or interpretation by a person educated in both languages. In contrast typical machine translators operate based on statistical stochastic analysis of context and grammar usually without need of human intervention interpretation.

Typical machine translation is often error prone particularly where the text to be translated has a minimal context. Text having minimal context is often found in conversations which employ brief sentence construction. Additionally machine translations often have trouble with abbreviations acronyms diminutives colloquial words phrases proper nouns and common nouns which are also commonly found in conversational text.

Various embodiments described herein provide for systems and methods that relate to translation of communications possibly between two or more users at two or more client systems. Systems and methods of various embodiments may enable or refine translation of text between a first language and a second language. In particular systems and methods may enable or refine a text translation by soliciting also referred to herein as soliciting user feedback and or receiving feedback also referred to herein as receiving user feedback or receiving a user feedback response for translation of a first word or phrase from a first language to a second language transformation of the first word or phrase in the first language to a second word or phrase in the first language e.g. replacing an abbreviation with a word or a phrase corresponding to the abbreviation such as CA with California or transformation of the first word or phrase in the first language to a second word or phrase in the second language. The systems and methods described herein may incentivize user feedback for failed translations in order to encourage user feedback improve the quality of user feedback received and to permit development of translation corpora that can evolve with time thereby improving translation capabilities and providing a better form of communication.

It should be understood that user feedback solicited for a translation or transformation may include user feedback provided in connection with a text translation a text transformation or some combination of both.

Some embodiments may be useful in improving the accuracy of translation systems and methods employed in various domains such as chat communication in gaming postings in social media services text based short messaging used with mobile phones and the like. For example systems and methods described herein may improve translation in a multi lingual multi user chat system associated with an online game e.g. in game chat system . In such a setting various embodiments may solicit game players to provide user feedback for e.g. correct for translated chat messages that are flagged for being associated with an actual or potential translation failure. As used herein translation failure also referred to herein as failed translation may comprise a failure to transform a first word or phrase to a second word or phrase a failure to translate a first word or phrase to a second word or phrase or a some combination of both. Various systems may also reward incentives such as in game currency or an in game item to players based on the user feedback response provided by game players in connection with word or phrase associated with an actual or potential translation failure. As described herein the user feedback response received from game players may be used to improve or develop corpora of different languages used by the chat translation which can in turn improve the chat experience provided by through a chat translation system.

In particular embodiments the translations enabled or refined by systems and methods may be utilized in different modes of communications including Internet based chat e.g. Apple iMessage Windows Live Messenger etc. e mail e.g. embedded forum messaging Yahoo mail RFC 5322 etc. text based mobile phone communications e.g. SMS messages or MMS messages postings to online forums e.g. postings to a web based hobby forum and postings to online social media services e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. . For example systems and methods may be implemented as part of a multi lingual multi user chat system.

For some embodiments a method comprises selecting from a data store or some other data source a word or phrase associated with a potential failure to translate a message from a first language to a second language selecting a person from which to solicit user feedback for the potential failure and generating a query to obtain user feedback from the person for the word or phrase. Additionally the method may select a person from which to solicit user feedback for the potential failure generate a query to obtain user feedback from the person for the word or phrase receive a response to the query that potentially defines the word or phrase and evaluate the response. Based on the evaluation the person may be rewarded an incentive for the response provided. For some embodiments the word or phrase may be selected after the person is selected and the word or phrase selection may be dependent on the person that is selected. Alternatively the word or phrase may be selected before the person is selected and the person may be selected according to the word or phrase selected.

The method may comprise receiving from a person a response to the generated query also referred to herein as the query or user feedback query where the response defines the word or phrase evaluating the response and based on the evaluation rewarding the person with an incentive for the response provided possibly when the provided response is approved as valid and or useful response. Depending on the specifics of the generated query the response also referred to herein as a user feedback response may comprise a definition for the word or phrase in the first language and or a definition for the word or phrase the word or phrase in the second language. The method may further comprise evaluating the competency of the person based on evaluation of the received response. The method may also comprise updating a transformation or translation of the word or phrase from the first language to the second language based on the evaluation of the response. The transformation or translation may be updated once the potential translation failure is determined to be resolved e.g. in view of the user feedback responses received for the potential translation failure .

The method may prevent the word or phrase from being subsequently selected for additional user feedback for the potential failure. Preventing the word or phrase from being subsequently selected may comprise removing the word or phrase from the data store.

The word or phrase may comprise chatspeak in the first language. Additionally the word or phrase selected may be one that is flagged as being problematic during translation or untranslatable. The word or phrase may be flagged by a communications system user that believes that the word or phrase is preventing a translation or causing an inaccurate translation in connection with a text e.g. a chat message . Additionally the word or phrase may be flagged by a system or method that automatically detects the word or phrase as being untranslatable thereby possibly preventing translation of other possibly larger phrases e.g. sentences .

Depending on the embodiment the flagged word or phrase may comprise a chatspeak word or phrase e.g. lol gr8t which may be found in chat messages of such communications modes as Internet based chat e mail text based mobile phone communications postings to online forums postings to online social media services and the like. Accordingly certain embodiments may assist in enabling or refining the translation of a message comprising a chatspeak word or phrase where the translation comprises replacement of the chatspeak word or phrase with a non chatspeak word or phrase.

The query may comprise a field configured to receive a character or string value as the response. Additionally the query may comprise a set of preselected definitions from which the person can choose a definition for the word or phrase as the response. In some embodiments the set of preselected definitions may comprise at least one definition provided by another person in response to another query the other query being previously generated to obtain user feedback for the word or phrase from the other person. The other query may have comprised a field configured to receive a character or string value as the response or comprised another set of preselected definitions from which the other person chose the definition.

Evaluation of the response may comprise determining whether the response is approved e.g. as valid or useful for the word or phrase at interest . The response may be approved based on at least one previous response provided by another person in response to another query the other query being previously generated to obtain user feedback for the word or phrase from the other person. In some embodiments the response may be approved once the response is determined to accurately define the word or phrase.

In some embodiments the person may be selected based on a confidence measure of the person a quota associated with the person e.g. incentive quota or quota on the number of times the person has participated in the user feedback process an incentive previous awarded to the person for user feedback a preference of the person and or a language ability of the person.

The incentive may have an associated value possibly in connection a real world economy e.g. incentive has a currency value or a virtual economy e.g. in game currency or in game item . An amount of the incentive may be determined based on the complexity of the word or phrase and or the importance of the word or phrase.

Certain embodiments provide for a system comprising various components that are configured to perform various operations described herein. Likewise certain embodiments provides for a computer program product comprising computer instruction codes configured to cause the computer system to perform various operations described herein.

Other features and aspects of various embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features of such embodiments.

Various embodiments described herein relate to and facilitate multi lingual communications. The systems and methods of some embodiments may enable multi lingual communications through different modes of communications including for example Internet based chat e.g. Apple iMessage Windows Live Messenger etc. e mail e.g. embedded forum messaging Yahoo mail RFC 5322 etc. text based mobile phone communications e.g. SMS messages or MMS messages postings to online forums e.g. postings to a web based hobby forum postings to online social media services e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. and the like. Certain embodiments may also be used to translate transcripts of communications or conversations that took place in the past e.g. deposition transcripts or chat history . Various embodiments may implement communications systems and methods that translate text between two or more languages e.g. spoken while handling accommodating for one or more of the following in the text specialized domain related jargon e.g. chatspeak abbreviations acronyms proper nouns common nouns diminutives colloquial words or phrases and profane words or phrases. For example some systems and methods described herein may be utilized in connection with a chat system such as those used in massive multiplayer online MMO games which tend to have users that chat in different foreign languages. Through certain embodiments the chat dialogue between two or more users can be transparently translated and presented to each user in their respective native language or language of choice. Additionally through the use of a multi tiered multi module transformation process certain embodiments may facilitate faster translation of communication between two or more users e.g. in their respective native languages than otherwise possible by traditional translation systems alone e.g. translation in a matter of microseconds .

According to some embodiments a system or method may perform translation from chatspeak in a first language such as English to chatspeak in a second language such as French. In another example a system or method may perform transformation from chatspeak in the first language e.g. English to formal speak in the first language e.g. English before attempting translation to the second language e.g. French . Some embodiments may achieve such text translations by first querying a data store e.g. translations cache which may contain translations manually entered by a human operator or translations based on previously performed by a translation system e.g. historical translations performed by an embodiment . Embodiments may attempt to transform one or more portions of the text e.g. process one or more of the following within the text chatspeak acronyms abbreviations proper nouns common nouns colloquialisms and profanity to make it more suitable for accurate text translation. For example certain embodiments may transform a given text to account for current or past idiomatic language use across different languages. Embodiments may reattempt querying the data store after transformation of the portions of the text. If this translation lookup reattempt fails embodiments may attempt to translate the text which may have been transformed using a machine translation service e.g. third party cloud based translation service such as Google translate .

Embodiments may attempt to transform a translated piece of formal text to chatspeak in the new language e.g. transform French formal speak to French chatspeak to further refine the translation of the text eventually produced. Accordingly certain embodiments facilitate chat translation between chatspeak in a first language e.g. English to chatspeak in a second language e.g. Russian French Spanish Chinese Hindi etc. .

Some embodiments may help reduce or avoid the need for using machine translations thereby reducing time cost and other overhead associated with machine translations and may facilitate accurate translations of text having minimal context or comprising short sentence structure. Where the machine translation is facilitated by a third party service or over a secure network connection e.g. Secure Socket Layer SSL connection the cost or overhead avoided by certain embodiments may be significant.

As understood herein transformation means manipulating a first text segment in a first language to form a second text segment in the first language. The resulting second text segment may also be referred to herein as the transformed text. Translation will be understood to mean converting a text segment in a first language to a corresponding text segment in a second language.

As also understood herein a transformed translation means translation of a text segment from a first language to a second language that has already been transformed in accordance with embodiments described herein e.g. transformed from chatspeak text in a first language to formal text in the first language . An untransformed translation will be understood to mean a translation of a text segment from a first language to a second language before the text segment has been transformed in accordance with embodiments described herein.

Various embodiments may implement different transformation translation strategies with certain strategies being well suited for particular translation applications. For example for particular chat system applications the transformation strategy implemented may comprise applying the following set of transformation related modules in the order listed chatspeak module acronym module proper noun module common noun module colloquialism module spelling check module abbreviation module and profanity module. Generally the transformation translation strategy employed determines which transformation operations are performed when the transformation operations are performed in the overall translation process e.g. transformation performed before or after machine translation or in what order the transformation operations are performed e.g. precedence or priority of transformation operations . The transformation translation strategy may also determine what translations are pre populated into the data store e.g. translations can be stored in a translation cache to speed up the overall process and when translation caches are utilized in the overall translation process. For certain embodiments the transformation translation strategy employed may be dynamically determined based on the conditions of the environment in which the embodiments are used. For example where a chat system is experiencing a heavier load of users than usual the transformation translation strategy may switch to one that lessens the processing burden of the chat system e.g. relies more on machine translations rather than on the data store .

Each of the clients the chat server and the translation server may be implemented using one or more digital devices which may be similar to the digital devices discussed later with respect to . For instance the client may be any form of computing device capable of receiving user input e.g. configured for user interaction capable of providing a client user interface that facilitates communications with one or more other clients e.g. any of clients through N and capable of communicating with the chat server through the computer network . Such computing devices may include a mobile phone a tablet computing device a laptop a desktop computer personal digital assistant a portable gaming unit a wired gaming unit a thin client a set top box a portable multi media player or any other type of network accessible user device known to those of skill in the art. Further one or more of the chat server and the translation server may comprise of one or more servers which may be operating on or implemented using one or more cloud based services e.g. System as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service PaaS or Infrastructure as a Service IaaS .

The clients may be configured to communicatively connect with the chat server which provides or otherwise facilitates chat sessions between the clients . Each of the clients through N may comprise a chat client system through N respectively that enables a user at each of the clients to access to the chat session through the chat server . Additionally depending on the embodiment each of the chat client systems through N hereafter collectively referred to as chat client systems or chat client system may be implemented as a standalone chat application as a chat feature embedded in non chat application e.g. video game or through a chat service accessible at the client through a web browser. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the chat client systems may be non heterogeneous with respect to one another and still be capable of establishing a chat session between them. The chat client systems may be capable of receiving chat input e.g. a chat message from their respective users in a language and corresponding character set selected by the user e.g. based on user settings or preferences and transmitting the chat input to the chat server to be relayed to another user e.g. another user at another chat client system . The chat client systems may also be capable of receiving chat output e.g. chat session dialogue from the chat server e.g. from another user at another chat client system and displaying the received chat output in a language and corresponding character set selected by the user e.g. based on user settings or preferences .

Through the use of some embodiments the translation of the chat dialogue may be transparent to the users as dialogue is passed between the chat client systems . Accordingly for some embodiments all chat dialogue presented at a given chat client system may be in a language native to or selected by the user at that given chat client system irrespective of what language is being by users at other chat client systems that are contributing to the same chat dialogue. For example where the user at the chat client system and the user at the chat client system are contributing to the same chat dialogue i.e. involved in the same chat session the user at the chat client system may have chosen to enter and receive chat dialogue in English while the user at the chat client system may have chosen to enter and receive chat dialogue in Russian. Though the users at the client systems and will see the same chat content the chat dialogue will be presented in their respectively chosen languages.

As shown the chat server may comprise a chat host system configured to established and or facilitate chat sessions between the chat client systems and a communication transformation and translation CTT system configured to perform transformation and or translation operations in accordance with the various systems and methods described herein. For some embodiments the chat client systems may establish a chat session with each other through the chat host system and the chat host system may utilize the features of the CTT system in facilitating the transparent translation of chat dialogue between the chat client systems . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the chat host system and the CTT system may be part of separate servers and that the entity operating the chat host system may be different from the entity operating the CTT system . For instance the chat host system may be a third party chat host system that utilizes the services of the CTT system .

As also shown the translation server may comprise a translation module configured to receive and service requests for machine text translation. In accordance with some embodiments the CTT system may utilize the operations services of the translation module in performing machine translations of texts. The CTT system may use of one or more translation application programming interfaces APIs to obtain access to the services provided by the translation module . Depending on the embodiment the translation module and the server on which it resides may be operated by a third party such as Google which may offer the machine translation services free of charge or for a fee. Though the translation module is shown to be a component operating on a server separate from the CTT system those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the translation module may operating on the same server as the CTT system and or may be an integrated component of the CTT system .

The CTT communications module may be configured to facilitate communications between the CTT system and systems and components external to the CTT system such as the chat server and or the translation server . Accordingly through the CTT communications module the CTT system may receive the chat dialogue comprising one or more chat messages to be transformed or translated by the CTT system and may output the translated chat dialogue that results from the CTT system .

The language module may be configured to identify the one or more languages used in connection with chat dialogue received by the CTT system . For some embodiments the language module may identify the language through analysis of the content of the chat dialogue received and or obtaining language preference settings information from the respective chat client systems e.g. chat client systems involved with the chat dialogue received.

The transformation module may be configured to perform transformation operations on chat dialogue comprising one or more chat messages received by the CTT system in accordance with some systems and methods described herein. In accordance with some embodiments the transformation operations performed by the transformation module may include without limitation those relating to chatspeak acronyms abbreviations proper nouns common nouns colloquialisms and profanity. Additional details of the transformation module are discussed in .

The translation data store may be configured to store and subsequently provide previously translated text to the CTT system as the CTT system performs transformed translations and untransformed translations in accordance with the some system and methods described herein. As described herein the translation data store may operate as a cache for translations previously performed by the CTT system and or may store translations manually entered and stored by a human operator e.g. by way of a translation training system . For some embodiments the translation data store may be populated with translations that would speed up the performance of the CTT system with respect to certain chat contexts. For example where the CTT system is utilized in conjunction with a chat system associated with an MMO game the translation data store may be populated e.g. by the operator of the CTT system with transformed and untransformed translations relating specifically to the MMO game. For certain embodiments the multi tiered multi module approach of transforming text used by the transformation module is particularly well suited for handling chat text in MMO games which by nature tends to be complex.

Depending on the embodiment the data store may store either untransformed translations e.g. you vous transformed translations e.g. u vous or both. For some embodiments the translation data store may store translations such that corresponding chat messages may be identified using hash values tags. For instance to store a Spanish translation for an original message in English the Spanish translation may be stored based on a hash value of the English message thereby enabling the Spanish translation to be later located and obtained using the hash value of the English message. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the translation data store may comprise a separate data store for translations between two specific languages. Accordingly when a chat message is being transformed translated between English and French a corresponding data English French data store may be utilized for operations relating to the translation data store .

The translation API module may be configured to provide the CTT system with access to machine translation services provided external to the CTT system e.g. by the translation module of the translation server . As described herein the translation API module may be utilized by the CTT system when a translation is not located in the translation data store .

The chatspeak module may be configured to identify one or more words or phrases in a chat message that are associated with chat jargon i.e. chatspeak and may be further configured to suggest replacement e.g. corresponding formal i.e. non chatspeak words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. In some embodiments the chatspeak module may flag an identified chatspeak word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified chatspeak word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a chatspeak word or phrase and or its corresponding formal word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising chatspeak words or phrases and or mappings between chatspeak words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. For example the chatspeak module may employ statistical machine translation in its functionality. For some embodiments the statistical machine translation employed may be trained using parallel texts and or using phrase level pairs extracted from transformations that preserve contextual information and or add grammar to an otherwise ungrammatical sentence. The result from the chatspeak module may comprise a chatspeak word or phrase flagged by the chatspeak module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a non chatspeak word or phrase inserted into the message by the chatspeak module e.g. in place of the identified chatspeak word or phrase . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the chatspeak module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the chatspeak module is in the data store .

The acronym module may be configured to identify one or more acronyms in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the acronyms. In some embodiments the acronym module may flag an identified acronym to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified acronym may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify an acronym and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising acronyms and or mappings between acronyms and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the acronym module may comprise an acronym flagged by the acronym module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the acronym module e.g. in place of the identified acronym . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the acronym module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the acronym module is in the data store .

The proper noun module may be configured to identify one or more proper nouns in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the proper nouns. In some embodiments the proper noun module may flag an identified proper noun to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified proper noun may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a proper noun and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising proper nouns e.g. well known proper nouns such as Disneyland or common names for individuals and or mappings between proper nouns and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the proper noun module may comprise a proper noun flagged by the proper noun module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the proper noun module e.g. in place of the identified proper noun . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the proper noun module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the proper noun module is in the data store .

The common noun module may be configured to identify one or more common nouns in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the common nouns. In some embodiments the common noun module may flag an identified common noun to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified common noun may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a common noun and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising common nouns and or mappings between common nouns and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the common noun module may comprise a common noun flagged by the common noun module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the common noun module e.g. in place of the identified common noun . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the common noun module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the common noun module is in the data store .

The colloquialism module may be configured to identify one or more colloquial words or phrases in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement e.g. corresponding formal i.e. non colloquial words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. In some embodiments the colloquialism module may flag an identified colloquial word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified colloquial word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a colloquial word or phrase and or its corresponding formal word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising colloquial words or phrases and or mappings between colloquial words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the colloquialism module may comprise a colloquial word or phrase flagged by the colloquialism module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a non colloquial word or phrase inserted into the message by the colloquialism module e.g. in place of the identified colloquial word or phrase . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the colloquialism module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the colloquialism module is in the data store .

The spelling check module may be configured to identify one or more misspelled words or phrases in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement e.g. corrected words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. For example the spelling check module may be configured to automatically correct the words or phrases with the suggested replacement words or phrases. In some embodiments the spelling check module may flag an identified misspelled word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified misspelled word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a misspelled word or phrase and or its corresponding corrected word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising misspelled words or phrases and or mappings between misspelled words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the spelling check module may comprise a misspelled word or phrase flagged by the spelling check module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a corrected word or phrase inserted into the message by the spelling check module e.g. in place of the misspelled word or phrase . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the spelling check module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the spelling check module is in the data store .

The abbreviation module may be configured to identify one or more abbreviations in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the abbreviations. In some embodiments the abbreviation module may flag an identified abbreviation to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified abbreviation may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify an abbreviation and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising abbreviations and or mappings between abbreviations and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the abbreviation module may comprise an abbreviation flagged by the abbreviation module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the abbreviation module e.g. in place of the identified abbreviation . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the abbreviation module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the abbreviation module is in the data store .

The profanity module may be configured to identify one or more profane words or phrases hereafter referred to as a profanity in a chat message and may be further configured to suggest replacement words or phrases e.g. suitable substitute corresponding to the profanity e.g. a toned down euphemism . In some embodiments the profanity module may flag identified profanity to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments identified profanity may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify profanity and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising profanity and or mappings between abbreviations and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The result from the profanity module may comprise profanity flagged by the profanity module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the profanity module e.g. in place of the identified profanity . Depending on the embodiment the message that results from the profanity module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the profanity module is in the data store .

For some embodiments one or more various modules of the transformation module may flag one or more portions of the chat message by inserting a predetermined character before and or after the portion being flagged. For instance where the chatspeak module flags the word LOL in a portion of the chat message the chatspeak module may insert an predetermined character   before and or after the word e.g.  LOL  to indicate that the flagged portion should be ignored by the translation module .

For some embodiments the transformation module may perform two or more transformation operations on the initial message in parallel and in response each of the two or more transformation operations may return a separate response from which the transformation module may then select one transformed message for further processing e.g. to be used in operation . Depending on the embodiment each response may comprise a flagged text portion a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the initial message. Thereafter the transformed message selected may be according to a priority of selection which can determine which transformed message is selected for further processing and according to what precedent. In some embodiments the priority selection may be according to which transformation operation is most likely to generate a transformed message suitable for a subsequent lookup in the translation data store or for subsequent machine translation. Additionally in some embodiments the priority of selection may be according to which transformation operation generates the most formal transformed message. The priority of selection may depend on the transformation translation strategy selected by the embodiment.

The following provides examples of how the transformation module may process a portion of a chat message in accordance with various embodiments. As shown the transformation module may process a chat message based on tokens or proximal tokens and may cease processing on a particular token once a transformation is performed.

The chat client communications module may be configured to facilitate communications between the chat client system and systems and components external to the chat client system such as the chat server . Accordingly through the chat client module the chat client system may receive from the chat server the chat dialogue to be presented at the chat client system e.g. via the chat client GUI module and may send to the chat server the chat dialogue received from the user at the chat client system e.g. via the chat client GUI module .

The chat client GUI module may be configured to provide a user at the chat client system with graphical input output access to chat sessions with other chat client systems.

Accordingly for some embodiments the chat client GUI module may present a user at the client with a client GUI adapted for receiving user interactions through the client . For some embodiments the chat client GUI module may be configured to present the user with chat dialogue e.g. as they are received from the chat server in the language of their choice e.g. according to the user language preferences settings . Additionally the chat client GUI module may be configured to receive chat input from the user in the language of their choice e.g. according to the user language preferences settings . As described herein the language used in presenting and receiving the chat dialogue at the chat client system may be different from the language used in presenting and receiving the chat dialogue at another chat client system. More regarding the chat client GUI module is discussed with respect to .

The method may start at operation the language module of the CTT system may being by identifying a first language being used by a user at a first chat client system e.g. and a second language being used by a user at a second chat client system e.g. . According to some embodiments the language module may identify the first language and the second language by obtaining language preferences settings from the respective chat client system .

At operation the CTT communications module of the CTT system may receive an initial message in the first language. In some embodiments the CTT communications module may receive the initial message from the chat host system which may have received the initial message from a chat client system e.g. .

At operation the CTT control module of the CTT system may query the translation data store for a corresponding message in the second language that corresponds to the initial message. At operation the CTT control module may determine if a corresponding message is found in the translation data store . If one exists at operation the CTT communications module may assist in sending the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. the chat client system . In some embodiments the corresponding message may be sent to the chat host system which may relay the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. . The method may then end.

If a corresponding message does not exist in the translation data store at operation the transformation module may attempt to transform at least a portion of the initial message to a transformed message in the first language. As described herein the message that results from the transformation module may be transformed or may remain unchanged e.g. when transformation operations of the transformation module are not applied to the initial message . For some embodiments the transformation module may perform two or more transformation operations on the initial message in parallel and in response each of the two or more transformation operations may return a separate response from which the transformation module may then select one transformed message for further processing e.g. to be used in operation . Depending on the embodiment each response may comprise a flagged text portion a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the initial message. Thereafter the transformed message selected may be according to a priority of selection which can determine which transformed message is selected for further processing and according to what precedent. In some embodiments the priority selection may be according to which transformation operation is most likely to generate a transformed message suitable for a subsequent lookup in the translation data store or for subsequent machine translation. Additionally in some embodiments the priority of selection may be according to which transformation operation generates the most formal transformed message. The priority of selection may depend on the transformation translation strategy selected by the embodiment.

At operation assuming the transformation module transformed the message the CTT control module of the CTT system may query the translation data store for a corresponding message in the second language that corresponds to the transformed message. At operation the CTT control module may determine if a corresponding message is found in the translation data store . If one exists at operation the CTT communications module may assist in sending the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. the chat client system . In some embodiments the corresponding message may be sent to the chat host system which may then relay the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. . The method may then end.

For some embodiments if a corresponding message still does not exist in the translation data store at operation the CTT control module may determine if there are any additional transformation operations of the transformation module to perform on the chat message that have not already been performed.

If an additional transformation operation exists the method returns to operation and performs additional transformation operation s . Depending on the embodiment the additional transformation operation s may involve applying a transform operation different from those already performed on the initial message by the transformation module may involve applying the same transformation operations performed but to different portions of the English chat message or may involve some combination thereof. For example if during the first execution of operation the transformation module applies a chatspeak related operation to the initial message to create a first transformed message during a second execution of operation the transformation module may apply an abbreviation related operation to the second transformed message. Following a subsequent execution of operation the method may continue to operations and where the CTT control module may re query the translation data store for a corresponding message in the second language that corresponds to the latest resulting transformed message and the CTT control module may determine if a corresponding message is found in the translation data store . By performing the transformation and query operations in this iterative manner certain embodiments may be able to find a corresponding message before having to perform every transformation operation available. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for certain embodiments the transformation and query operations may be performed in series with the query operation e.g. operation only being performed after every available transformation operation provided by the transformation module has been performed on the chat message.

If a corresponding message does not exist in the translation data store and an additional transformation operation of the transformation module does not exist at operation through the translation API module the translation module may assist in the translating the initial message or the transformed message to a corresponding message in the second language. Subsequently at operation the CTT communications module may assist in sending the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. the chat client system . According to some embodiments the corresponding message may be sent to the chat host system which may then relay the corresponding message to the second chat client system e.g. . The method may then end.

For certain embodiments the transformation module may be utilized to transform the corresponding message in the second language before the corresponding message is sent to the chat host system . As described herein the corresponding message may be submitted for further transformation processing to further refine the translation for the user at the second chat client system e.g. . For example if the initial message contains chatspeak in the first language e.g. English additional transformation processing can add to the extent possible chatspeak in the second language.

Though the steps of the above method may be depicted and described in a certain order those skilled in the art will appreciate that the order in which the steps are performed may vary between embodiments. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components described above with respect to the method are merely examples of components that may be used with the method and for some embodiments other components may also be utilized in some embodiments.

The method may start at operation with an initial message being received by the transformation module for transformation processing. Based on some embodiments the transformation module may receive the initial message for transformation subsequent to a failure to identify a message in the translation data store and possibly before the initial message is machine translated by a third party or proprietary translation process e.g. the translation module which may be offered as a cloud based service . As described herein the transformation module may be used in various embodiments to facilitate or otherwise improve text translation particularly where the text comprises a minimal context brief sentence construction specialized domain related jargon e.g. chatspeak for Internet based chat abbreviations acronyms colloquialisms proper nouns common nouns profanity or some combination thereof. Text translations that may benefit from the operations of the transformation module may include without limitation translations of texts originating from conversations e.g. transcript from offline or online Internet based chat e.g. instant messaging and from mobile phone messaging e.g. SMS or MMS .

At operation the chatspeak module may identify one or more words or phrases in the initial message that are associated with chat jargon i.e. chatspeak and may further suggest replacement e.g. corresponding formal i.e. non chatspeak words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. In some embodiments the chatspeak module may flag an identified chatspeak word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified chatspeak word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a chatspeak word or phrase and or its corresponding formal word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising chatspeak words or phrases and or mappings between chatspeak words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the first intermediate message may comprise a chatspeak word or phrase flagged by the chatspeak module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a non chatspeak word or phrase inserted into the initial message by the chatspeak module e.g. in place of the identified chatspeak word or phrase . In some instances the first intermediate message may be the same as the initial message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the chatspeak module . Depending on the embodiment the first intermediate message that results from the chatspeak module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the chatspeak module is in the data store . Following operation the first intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the acronym module may identify one or more acronyms in a chat message and may further suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the acronyms. In some embodiments the acronym module may flag an identified acronym to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified acronym may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify an acronym and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising acronyms and or mappings between acronyms and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the second intermediate message may comprise an acronym flagged by the acronym module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the acronym module e.g. in place of the identified acronym . In some instances the second intermediate message may be the same as the first intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the acronym module . Depending on the embodiment the second intermediate message that results from the acronym module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the acronym module is in the data store . Following operation the second intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the proper noun module may identify one or more proper nouns in a chat message and may further suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the proper nouns. In some embodiments the proper noun module may flag an identified proper noun to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified proper noun may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a proper noun and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising proper nouns e.g. well known proper nouns such as Disneyland or common names for individuals and or mappings between proper nouns and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the third intermediate message may comprise a proper noun flagged by the proper noun module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the proper noun module e.g. in place of the identified proper noun . In some instances the third intermediate message may be the same as the second intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the proper noun module . Depending on the embodiment the third intermediate message that results from the proper noun module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the proper noun module is in the data store . Following operation the third intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the common noun module may identify one or more common nouns in a chat message and may further suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the common nouns. In some embodiments the common noun module may flag an identified common noun to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified common noun may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a common noun and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising common nouns and or mappings between common nouns and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the fourth intermediate message may comprise a common noun flagged by the common noun module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the common noun module e.g. in place of the identified common noun . In some instances the fourth intermediate message may be the same as the third intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the common noun module . Depending on the embodiment the fourth intermediate message that results from the common noun module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the common noun module is in the data store . Following operation the fourth intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the colloquialism module may identify one or more colloquial words or phrases in a chat message and may further suggest replacement e.g. corresponding formal i.e. non colloquial words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. In some embodiments the colloquialism module may flag an identified colloquial word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified colloquial word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a colloquial word or phrase and or its corresponding formal word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising colloquial words or phrases and or mappings between colloquial words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the fifth intermediate message may comprise a colloquial word or phrase flagged by the colloquialism module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a non colloquial word or phrase inserted into the message by the colloquialism module e.g. in place of the identified colloquial word or phrase . In some instances the fifth intermediate message may be the same as the fourth intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the colloquialism module . Depending on the embodiment the fifth intermediate message that results from the colloquialism module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the colloquialism module is in the data store . Following operation the fifth intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the spelling check module may identify one or more misspelled words or phrases in a chat message and may further suggest replacement e.g. corrected words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. For example the spelling check module may automatically correct the words or phrases with the suggested replacement words or phrases. In some embodiments the spelling check module may flag an identified misspelled word or phrase to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified misspelled word or phrase may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify a misspelled word or phrase and or its corresponding corrected word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising misspelled words or phrases and or mappings between misspelled words or phrases and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the sixth intermediate message may comprise a misspelled word or phrase flagged by the spelling check module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a corrected word or phrase inserted into the message by the spelling check module e.g. in place of the misspelled word or phrase . In some instances the sixth intermediate message may be the same as the fifth intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the spelling check module . Depending on the embodiment the sixth intermediate message that results from the spelling check module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the spelling check module is in the data store . Following operation the sixth intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the abbreviation module may identify one or more abbreviations in a chat message and may further suggest replacement words or phrases corresponding to e.g. represented by the abbreviations. In some embodiments the abbreviation module may flag an identified abbreviation to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments an identified abbreviation may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify an abbreviation and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising abbreviations and or mappings between abbreviations and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the seventh intermediate message may comprise an abbreviation flagged by the abbreviation module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the abbreviation module e.g. in place of the identified abbreviation . In some instances the seventh intermediate message may be the same as the sixth intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the abbreviation module . Depending on the embodiment the seventh intermediate message that results from the abbreviation module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the abbreviation module is in the data store . Following operation the seventh intermediate message may be provided to the next operation e.g. operation of the transformation module for processing.

At operation the profanity module may identify one or more profane words or phrases hereafter referred to as a profanity in a chat message and may further suggest replacement words or phrases e.g. suitable substitute corresponding to the profanity e.g. a toned down euphemism . In some embodiments the profanity module may flag identified profanity to be skipped or otherwise ignored during a subsequent machine translation e.g. by the translation module . Additionally in some embodiments identified profanity may be flagged for later review and disposition by a human operator e.g. an administrator of the CTT system . In order to identify profanity and or its corresponding word or phrase some embodiments may utilize a dataset e.g. stored on a data store comprising profanity and or mappings between abbreviations and their corresponding words and phrases. The dataset may be constructed by way of training or a learning system may be proprietary e.g. manually collected in house by an administrator of the CTT system may be commercially acquired or may be derived from a publicly available Internet knowledgebase. The message resulting from operation hereafter the eighth intermediate message may comprise profanity flagged by the profanity module to be ignored a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the message by the profanity module e.g. in place of the identified profanity . In some instances the eighth intermediate message may be the same as the seventh intermediate message e.g. when no replacement is performed by the profanity module . Depending on the embodiment the eighth intermediate message that results from the profanity module may be provided to another transformation module in the transformation module for further processing or the suggested replacement may be provided to the CTT control module to determine if the message transformed by the profanity module is in the data store . Following operation the eighth intermediate message may be provided to the next operation of the transformation module for processing. The method may then end.

In accordance with some embodiments the message that ultimately results from the transformation module e.g. the eighth intermediate message resulting from operation may subsequently be used to query the translation data store for a corresponding message which can serve as a translation for the resulting message. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some instances the message resulting from the transformation module e.g. message subsequently used in the query to the translation data store may be the same as the initial message received e.g. at operation when no transformation has been applied to the initial message e.g. the initial message passes through operations without any transformations being applied .

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that various embodiments may perform more or less operations than the ones shown may perform operations different from those shown and may perform operations in a different order. Generally the types of transformation operations performed and the order in which they are performed may be depend on transformation strategy employed by the embodiments. As noted herein various embodiments may implement different transformation translation strategies in achieving their respective translations with certain strategies being well suited for particular translation applications or translation contexts. The transformation translation strategy employed may determine which transformation operations are performed when the transformation operations are performed or in what order the transformation operations are performed. The transformation translation strategy may also determine what translations are populated into a translation data stores and when a translation data store is utilized in the overall transformation translation process.

For some embodiments the intermediate messages resulting from operations in the method may have an impact and or cascading effect on messages that result from subsequent operations in the method . Additionally for some embodiments when a chat message is processed by the method each operation of method may be performed on the chat message before the method concludes. Alternatively for some embodiments the method may terminate early upon the performance of only a subset of the operations shown e.g. after at least one operation results in a transformation of the chat message . According to some embodiments the performance of each operation in flowchart may be followed by a query to the translation data store for a corresponding message in the desired language based on the latest resulting transformed message in the event a corresponding message is identified the method of flowchart may terminate early.

For various embodiments the method may perform operations in parallel. For example the CTT control module may submit the initial message to two or more operations in parallel and receive from each of those two or more operations a separate response. Each response may comprise a flagged text portion a suggested replacement or a word or phrase inserted into the initial message. Thereafter the CTT control module may select one of the received responses for subsequent processing e.g. query a translation data store or translating by the translation module possibly according to a priority of selection e.g. which can determine which transformed message is selected for further processing and according to what precedent .

For instance during the method the CTT control module may submit an initial message to operation for identifying chatspeak processing operation for common noun processing and operation for abbreviation processing. In response operation may return the initial message transformed for chatspeak operation may return the initial message unchanged and operation may return the initial message transformed for abbreviations. Subsequently based on a priority of selection the CTT control module may select the transformed message returned from operation for further processing.

For certain embodiments a time limit may be enforced on performing various operations in the method . The time limit may cause a transformation operation of method to stop performing if a response result is not received before the time limit has expired. In doing so various embodiments may ensure that certain transformation operations do not unnecessarily hinder the overall transformation translation process.

Though the operations of the above method may be depicted and described in a certain order those skilled in the art will appreciate that the order in which the operations are performed may vary between embodiments. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that the components described above with respect to the method of the flowchart are merely examples of components that may be used with the method and for some embodiments other components may also be utilized in some embodiments.

As chat dialogue represented by two way arrow in is passed between the chat client systems and the chat client GUI modules and may present the chat dialogue in the language implicitly or explicitly chosen by the user at their respective chat client system or . As shown the chat client GUI module may comprise a chat dialogue box configured to present the chat dialogue in a first language e.g. English in an output area and to receive chat input in the first language in a second area . The chat client GUI module may comprise a chat dialogue box configured to present the chat dialogue in a second language e.g. French in an output area and to receive chat input in the second language in a second area . For some embodiments when the chat dialogue is presented in the dialogue boxes and it may include the presentation of usernames e.g. user online identifier associated with the users entering the chat messages in the chat dialogue .

In the illustrated embodiment of the language chosen for the chat client system is English and the language chosen for the chat client system is French. Accordingly chat messages LOL and Who u laughin at are presented in English in the dialogue box of the chat client GUI module while their respective counterpart chat messages MDR and Qui to fair rire are presented in French in the dialogue box of the chat client GUI module . The translation of the chat messages and may be facilitated through various systems and methods described herein. More regarding the translation of messages similar to chat messages and are discussed with respect to .

As shown at operation the first chat client system may submit the English message for transmission to the second chat client system e.g. via the chat host system . The English message may be routed to the CTT control module of the CTT system for translation processing.

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a chat message that corresponds to the English chat message LOL and that is pre translated to French. In response at operation the translation data store may return to the CTT control module a corresponding French message MDR that corresponds to the English chat message LOL . Subsequently at operation the CTT control module may assist in the transmission of the corresponding French chat message MDR to the second chat client system e.g. CTT system submits the corresponding French chat message to the chat host system for transmission .

As shown at operation the first chat client system may submit the English chat message for transmission to the second chat client system e.g. via the chat host system with a user that speaks French. The English chat message may be routed to the CTT control module of the CTT system for translation processing.

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the English chat message LOL . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the English chat message LOL . If such is the case at operation the CTT control module may submit the English chat message to the transformation module for transformation processing in accordance with certain embodiments. As described herein the transformation module may comprise multiple transformation related modules configured to transform a chat message to a message more suitable for further translation processing.

At operation the chatspeak module of the transformation module may transform the English chat message LOL to the transformed English chat message laugh out loud and may return the transformed English chat message to the CTT control module for further processing. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the English chat message may be processed by additional modules of the transformation module before the transformed English chat message is returned to the CTT control module .

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the transformed English chat message laugh out loud . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the transformed English chat message laugh out loud . If such is the case at operation the CTT control module may submit the transformed English chat message to the translation module for machine translation processing in accordance with certain embodiments.

At operation the translation module may return a machine translated French chat message mort de rire that corresponds to the transformed English chat message. The resulting machine translated French chat message mort de rire is an example of a transformed translation of an English chatspeak chat message LOL .

At operation the CTT control module may submit the machine translated French chat message mort de rire to the transformation module for further transformation processing of the machine translated French chat message in accordance with certain embodiments. As noted herein the machine translated text may be submitted for further transformation processing to further refine the French translation. For example if the original English chat message contained English chatspeak the additional transformation processing can add to the extent possible French chatspeak. Accordingly at operation the chatspeak module of the transformation module may transform the machine translated French chat message mort de rire to the transformed French chat message MDR and may return the transformed French chat message to the CTT control module for further processing.

Eventually at operation the CTT control module may assist in the transmission of the corresponding French chat message MDR to the second chat client system e.g. CTT system submits the corresponding French chat message to the chat host system for transmission . Additionally at operation the CTT control module may store a translation mapping in the translation data store of the transformed translation between the original English chat message LOL and the translated French chat message MDR . Once the mapping is stored in the translation data store it may be used to store translation entries to speed up future translations e.g. as illustrated in . As noted herein the translation data store may store mappings of transformed translations and untransformed translations.

For some embodiments the CTT control module may also store equivalent transformed and untransformed translation mappings determined during the operation of the method . For certain embodiments the translation mappings may be between chat message that were not original located in the translation data store e.g. the chat message shown for operation and the chat message shown for operation and a corresponding message determined during operations subsequent to the translation data store lookups e.g. a mapping between a query to the translation data store that returns no result and a corresponding chat message determined after the query by way of the transformation module and or the translation module .

For instance as shown in the CTT control module queries the translation data store for original English chat message LOL at operation and the transformed English chat message laugh out loud at operation both of which resulted in the CTT control module receiving no results from the translation data store at operations and respectively . However at operation the CTT control module eventually submits the transformed English message laugh out loud to the machine translation module for machine translation and receives in response the machine translated French chat message mort de rire at operation . Accordingly at operation the CTT control module may store a translation mapping in the translation data store of the transformed translation between the original English chat message LOL and the machine translated French chat message mort de rire . Likewise at operation the CTT control module may store a translation mapping in the translation data store of the transformed translation between the transformed English chat message laugh out loud and the machine translated French chat message mort de rire . In doing so next time method queries the translation data store for the original English chat message LOL or the transformed English chat message laugh out loud the translation data store will provide the corresponding transformed translations.

As shown at operation the first chat client system may submit the English chat message for transmission to the second chat client system e.g. via the chat host system . The English chat message may be routed to the CTT control module of the CTT system for translation processing.

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the English chat message Who u laughin at . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the English chat message Who u laughin at . If such is the case at operation the CTT control module may submit the English chat message to the transformation module for transformation processing in accordance with certain embodiments. As described herein the transformation module may comprise multiple transformation related modules configured to transform a chat message to a message more suitable for further translation processing.

At operation the chatspeak module of the transformation module may transform the English chat message Who u laughin at to the transformed English chat message Who you laughin at and pass on the transformed English chat message to additional modules of the transformation module for further processing such as the spelling check module .

As discussed herein various modules of transformation module including the chatspeak module may be configured to identify one or more words or phrases in a chat message and suggest replacement words or phrases for the identified words or phrases. Accordingly those skilled in the art would appreciate that for some embodiments the transformation performed suggested by a module of transformation module may involve a word to phrase or a phrase to phrase transformation of the chat message. For example at operation the chatspeak module may alternatively transform the English chat message Who u laughin at to the transformed English chat message Who are you laughing at possibly by replacing suggesting the replacement of the phrase who u with who are you during the transformation followed by the replacement suggestion of the replacing the word laughin with laughing . In doing so various modules of the transformation module such as the chatspeak module may provide grammatical improvements to their respective transformations while possibly obviating the need for a separate module in the transformation module to implement grammar improvements.

For some embodiments before the transformed English chat message is passed on to additional modules of the transformation module the chatspeak module may pass on the transformed English chat message to the CTT control module at operation . In turn the CTT control module may query the translation data store at operation for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the transformed English chat message Who you laughin at . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the transformed English chat message Who you laughin at .

At operation the spelling check module may perform a spell check process on the transformed English chat message Who you laughin at at operation . During the spell check process the spelling check module may correct the transformed English chat message to a corrected English chat message Who you laughing at and may return the corrected English chat message to the CTT control module . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for some embodiments the corrected English chat message may processed by additional modules of the transformation module before the transformed English chat message is returned to the CTT control module .

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the corrected English chat message Who you laughing at . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the corrected English chat message Who you laughing at . If such is the case at operation the CTT control module may submit the corrected English chat message to the translation module for machine translation processing in accordance with certain embodiments.

At operation the translation module may return a machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire that corresponds to the corrected English chat message. At operation the CTT control module may submit the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire to the transformation module for further transformation processing of the machine translated French chat message in accordance with certain embodiments.

As noted herein the machine translated text may be submitted for further transformation processing to further refine the translation of the text. For example if the original English chat message contained English chatspeak the additional transformation processing can add to the extent possible French chatspeak. At operation the transformation module may return the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire unchanged to the CTT control module for further processing e.g. when the modules of the transformation module do not apply any changes to the machine translated French chat message .

At operation the CTT control module may assist in the transmission of the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire to the second chat client system e.g. CTT system submits the corresponding French chat message to the chat host system for transmission . Additionally at operation the CTT control module may store a translation mapping in the translation data store between the original English chat message Who u laughin at and the translated French chat message Qui to fait rire . As described herein in additional operations not shown the CTT control module may also store equivalent translation mappings in the translation data store based on previously failed queries to the translation data store and corresponding messages determined subsequent to those queries e.g. similar to operations and in .

According to some embodiments the transformation operations performed by the transformation module may comprise performing certain transformation operations in parallel and perform certain transformation operations in serial. The order in which transformation operations are performed in parallel and in serial may vary between various embodiments. As described herein where the transformation operations are performed in parallel some embodiments may employ a priority of selection to determine which transformed message is selected for further processing and according to what precedent.

As shown at operation the first chat client system may submit the English chat message for transmission to the second chat client system e.g. via the chat host system . The English chat message may be routed to the CTT control module of the CTT system for translation processing.

At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the English chat message Who u laughin at . In response at operation the translation data store may return a query failure to the CTT control module to indicate that the translation data store does not have a corresponding French chat message for the English chat message Who u laughin at .

If such is the case the CTT control module may submit the English chat message to the transformation module for transformation processing in accordance with certain embodiments. As described herein the transformation module may comprise multiple transformation related modules configured to transform a chat message to a message more suitable for further translation processing. As shown in during operations the CTT control module may submit the English chat message Who u laughin at in parallel to two or more transformation related modules of the transformation module . Additionally during operations the CTT control module may be receiving results from the transformation related modules in parallel and submitting queries to the translation data store based on the transformation results in parallel.

Accordingly at operation the CTT control module may submit the English chat message Who u laughin at to the chatspeak module for transformation processing. In parallel at operation the CTT control module may submit the English chat message Who u laughin at to the spelling check module for transformation processing. Subsequently the CTT control module may receive a first transformed English chat message Who you laughin at from the chatspeak module at operation while at operation the CTT control module may receive a second transformed English chat message Who u laughing at from the spelling check module . Depending on their respective transformation processing times the chatspeak module the spelling check module and the other transformation related modules may respond to the CTT control module in serial or in parallel with respect to one another.

Subsequently at operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the first transformed English chat message Who you laughin at . At operation the CTT control module may query the translation data store for a French equivalent chat message that corresponds to the second transformed English chat message Who u laughing at . For some embodiments during operations and the CTT control module may query the translation data store in serial or in parallel. In some embodiments the timings of the queries may depend on when the transformation related modules of the transformation module return their respective responses. As shown in the translation data store may return a query failure e.g. for the queries at operations and

Eventually the CTT control module may select one transformed message from the two or more messages that result from the parallel operations for further processing. Where only one of the transformation related modules results in a transformed message the CTT control module may select that particular transformed message for further processing. As noted herein the CTT control module may select a transformed message based on a priority of selection which may be determined according to the transformation translation strategy selected by the embodiments. For some embodiments the priority of selection may be based on whether the transformed message has the most formal content the transformed message has the most transformations or the transformed message results from a transformation related module known for having a high likelihood of producing a transformed message suitable for machine translation.

Once a transformed message has been selected at operation the CTT control module may submit the transformed English chat message to the translation module for machine translation processing in accordance with certain embodiments. For example as shown in the CTT control module may select the first transformed English chat message produced by the chatspeak module Who you laughin at for submission to the translation module .

At operation the translation module may return a machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire that corresponds to the first transformed English chat message and despite comprising the misspelled word laughin . At operation the CTT control module may submit the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire to the transformation module for further transformation processing of the machine translated French chat message in accordance with certain embodiments.

As noted herein the machine translated text may be submitted for further transformation processing to further refine the translation of the text. For example if the original English chat message contained English chatspeak the additional transformation processing can add to the extent possible French chatspeak. At operation the transformation module may return the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire unchanged to the CTT control module for further processing e.g. when the modules of the transformation module do not apply any changes to the machine translated French chat message .

At operation the CTT control module may assist in the transmission of the machine translated French chat message Qui to fait rire to the second chat client system e.g. CTT system submits the corresponding French chat message to the chat host system for transmission . Additionally at operation the CTT control module may store a translation mapping in the translation data store between the original English chat message Who u laughin at and the translated French chat message Qui to fait rire . As described herein in additional operations not shown the CTT control module may also store equivalent translation mappings in the translation data store based on previously failed queries to the translation data store and corresponding messages determined subsequent to those queries e.g. similar to operations and in .

For some embodiments the transformation operations may be performed in a hybrid serial parallel arrangement whereby some transformation operations are performed in parallel and other transformation operations are performed in serial. For example as shown in the English chat message Who u laughin at is submitted to the chatspeak module and spelling check module in parallel at operations and . Subsequently once one of the resulting transformed messages is selected e.g. based on a priority of selection the other transformation related modules of the transformation module e.g. the acronym module the proper noun module and the common noun module may operate on the selected transformed message in parallel.

The memory system is any memory configured to store data. Some examples of the memory system are storage devices such as RAM or ROM. The memory system can comprise the ram cache. In various embodiments data is stored within the memory system . The data within the memory system may be cleared or ultimately transferred to the storage system .

The storage system is any storage configured to retrieve and store data. Some examples of the storage system are flash drives hard drives optical drives and or magnetic tape. In some embodiments the digital device includes a memory system in the form of RAM and a storage system in the form of flash data. Both the memory system and the storage system comprise computer readable media which may store instructions or programs that are executable by a computer processor including the processor .

The communications network interface com. network interface can be coupled to a network e.g. the computer network via the link . The communication network interface may support communication over an Ethernet connection a serial connection a parallel connection or an ATA connection for example. The communication network interface may also support wireless communication e.g. 802.11a b g n WiMax . It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the communication network interface can support many wired and wireless standards.

The optional input output I O interface is any device that receives input from the user and output data. The optional display interface is any device that is configured to output graphics and data to a display. In one example the display interface is a graphics adapter.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the hardware elements of the digital device are not limited to those depicted in . A digital device may comprise more or less hardware elements than those depicted. Further hardware elements may share functionality and still be within various embodiments described herein. In one example encoding and or decoding may be performed by the processor and or a co processor located on a GPU i.e. Nvidia .

The above described functions and components can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a storage medium such as a computer readable medium. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with some embodiments. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

Various embodiments are described herein as examples. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the invention s presented herein. These and other variations upon the example embodiments are intended to be covered by the present invention s .

As used herein feedback should be understood to refer to user feedback or user feedback response possibly in response to a query requesting feedback for a transformation or a translation. It should also be understood that that user feedback can comprise user feedback for a transformation or user feedback for a translation. User feedback may comprise a definition for a given word or phrase that i permits the given word or phrase to be transformed from the given word or phrase in a first language to a corresponding word or phrase in the same first language ii permits the given word or phrase to be transformed from the given word or phrase in the first language to a corresponding word or phrase in a different second language thereby performing a transformed translation of the word or phrase and or iii permits the given word or phrase to be translated from a first language to a second language thereby performing a untransformed translation of the word or phrase. As described herein a user feedback response may be received in response to a query requesting user feedback in connection with a translation failure.

As used herein a failure of translation or a translation failure may be understood to include an actual failure to translate a text e.g. translated text is identical to the original text or text translations that are flagged as potentially containing a translation failure e.g. flagged by a user reading a translated text and believing the translated text contains questionable or incorrect translation .

As shown in the CTT system may comprise a communication transformation and translation CTT control module a communication transformation and translation CTT communications module a language module a transformation module a translation data stores and a translation application programming interface API module In some embodiments the CTT control module the CTT communications module the language module the transformation module the translation data stores and the translation API module may be similar to the components of the CTT system as described herein.

As also shown in the CTT system may comprise a translation failure management module a user feedback UF query generation module a user feedback UF query audience selection module a query response valuation module a query application program interface API module a response evaluation module a translation data store update module an audience competence evaluation module and an incentive reward module .

The translation failure management module may be configured to facilitate management of translation failures e.g. failure to translate a text from a first language to a second language . For some embodiments the translation failure management module may be adapted to handle one or more translation failures that may be experienced by the CTT system as the system attempts to translate a chat message sent from a first user who is using a first language during their chat sessions to a second user who is using a second language during their chat session. As described herein the text to be translated by the CTT system may be chat messages which may comprise chatspeak abbreviates colloquialisms idioms and the like. It will be understood that during transformation or translation of a chat message some or all of the chat messages may result in translation failure possibly due to the inability of the CTT system to transform and or translate those failure causing portions of the chat message.

Features provided by the translation failure management module may include without limitation automatically detecting when a failure to translation of text has occurred automatically detecting when certain words or phrases of a text are untranslatable enabling a user to flag some or all of a translated text as containing actual or potential translation errors after a translation process managing what translations failures are selected for user feedback from various audience members e.g. chat members such as players using an in game chat system managing what words or phrases associated with a translation failure are selected for user feedback e.g. based on how often the word is encountered used in text to be translated and managing when a translation failure is no longer a candidate for selection for user feedback e.g. words or phrases associated with a translation failure are removed from the selection pool .

In various embodiments the translation failure management module may manage the overall availability of words or phrases for user feedback by audience members. As used herein a user feedback opportunity may comprise a word or phrase available for user feedback by an audience member. The translation failure management module may throttle or suspend availability of one or more user feedback opportunities based on various conditions such as the availability of computing resources for user feedback incentives rewarded in connection with user feedback quality of feedback response received in the past and the like. For instance it may be determined that continuing to reward incentives e.g. in game currency or in game item for approved user feedback responses may negatively impact the economy relating to the incentive e.g. the in game economy . Accordingly some embodiments may temporarily suspend the availability of user feedback opportunities that reward the incentives or adjust the incentives rewarded e.g. amount of incentive or type of incentive for user feedback opportunities when those embodiments detect that the current inventive strategy is harmful to an economy of concern e.g. in game economy .

As described herein an audience member from which user feedback is solicited may be one who has volunteered to provide such feedback possibly as a participant in a user feedback program and or in return for an incentive when their submitted feedback has been approved e.g. as being correct accepted or useful in defining a transformation or translation . For some embodiments the user feedback systems described herein may be part of a game system such as an online MMO game where the audience members are game players that choose to otherwise participate in user feedback opportunities possibly for incentives useful in the game system e.g. in game currency or in game items . In this way the user feedback system may be presented as a game feature that game playing audience member regard as a game to be played for a reward thereby leveraging the competition inherent to the gaming environments. More regarding selection of audience members is described with respect to the UF query audience selection module .

As described herein a word or phrase may be flagged by a communications system user that believes that the word or phrase of concern is preventing a translation or causing an inaccurate translation of communicated text. For example in a multi lingual multi user chat system associated with an online game a game player may flag an entire chat message they have received or flag certain portions of the chat message e.g. word or phrase thereof as potentially having a translation problem or failure. Words or phrases associated with a translation failure may include for example specialized domain related jargon abbreviations acronyms proper nouns common nouns diminutives colloquial words or phrases and profane words or phrases. Additionally the word or phrase may be flagged by a system or method that automatically detects the word or phrase as being untranslatable possibly preventing translation of larger phrases or sentences.

The translation management module may be responsible for selecting a word or phrase as being the subject of a user feedback where the selected word or phrase may be flagged as being associated with an actual or potential failure to translate text from a first language to a second language. The translation management module may select a word or phrase based on a number of factors some of which include the current importance of the word or phrase in translations e.g. importance based on overall usage of the word or phrase complexity of the word or phrase e.g. difficulty of the word or phrase or how long the word or phrase has been an issue the competency of the user selected volunteering to provide user feedback e.g. the user has competency in the second language and a preference of the user selected volunteering to provide user feedback. Those skilled in the art will appreciate other factors for selecting words or phrases for user feedback may be utilized by various embodiments.

For various embodiments users selected to provide user feedback may be ones volunteering to provide such feedback. For instance a user may choose to provide user feedback by setting an associated user preference by selecting an in chat system advertisement that is soliciting user feedback and or browsing through a section that lists one or more user feedback opportunities available for selection.

As noted herein the translation failure management may manage when a particular word or phrase that is associated with an actual or potential translation failure is no longer a candidate for selection for user feedback by audience members. Various conditions can lead the translation failure management to make such a determination including for instance when a specific number of feedback responses has been received in connection with the certain word or phrase or with the associated translation failure when a specific number of consistent feedback responses has been received in connection with the certain word or phrase or with the associated translation failure and when a given feedback response has been approved as a valid response for the user feedback sought e.g. a specific response from a set of unique feedback responses has been manually approved by an administrator as a correct response .

The UF query generation module may be configured to generate a query for obtaining user feedback from a selected audience member for a given word or phrase selected for user feedback. As described herein the audience member selected may be a user who has volunteered to provide user feedback possibly in return for an incentive when the user feedback submitted has been approved as being correct an accepted feedback response or useful in refining a translation in question. More regarding selection of audience members is described with respect to the UF query audience selection module .

For some embodiments the query generated may include one or more methods of receiving a query response from the selected audience member. For example the generated query may include as a response method a listing of predefined responses from which the audience member can select as their response to the generated query also referred to herein as a select form response . In another example the generated query may include as a response method one or more fields configured to receive as their response to the generated query a text value entered into a field by the audience member. also referred to herein as a free form response Other response methods may include a graphical user interface GUI elements text values or some combination thereof.

The one or more response methods included in the generated query may be according to a number of factors including for example a preference of the audience member the importance and or complexity of the word or phrase for which user feedback is sought the number of feedback responses received thus far for the word or phrase for which user feedback is sought the number of consistent feedback responses received thus far for the word or phrase for which user feedback is sought and whether there is enough free form feedback responses from which to create a selection form response. For some embodiments the audience member to respond to the generated query can select from two or more response methods for the generated query.

Additionally the languages for which an audience member is presented user feedback opportunities may be according to a number of factors including for example whether the audience member is multi lingual by monitoring the audience member s chat history whether the audience member language abilities meet or exceed a particular language confidence level and a language setting on the user device the audience member is using to participate in a user feedback opportunity e.g. default language setting for the audience member s device . For example where the default device language of an audience member s device is German and he or she selects to participate in a user feedback opportunity the query generated and sent to the audience member will based on the German language e.g. query for defining an English word or phrase to a German word or phrase or vice versa . For some embodiments the generated query may provide an audience member with an option to select the language of the response to be submitted e.g. when the generated query does not specify or require a specific language and or with an option to provide more two or more responses with each response possibly being of a different language. For some such embodiments the audience member may be presented with language response options according to various language factors discussed herein such as whether the audience member is multi lingual and a language setting on the user device of the audience member.

The UF query audience selection module may be configured to select an audience member from which to solicit user feedback. In some embodiments the UF query audience selection module may select the audience member from a pool of audience members who have volunteered to provide user feedback possibly in return of incentive which may be received when the user feedback is approved accepted . As described herein an audience member may volunteer to participate in translation at which time the audience member may be included in the pool of audience members from which the UF query audience selection module selects for user feedback solicitation. In some embodiments when the UF query audience selection module selects an audience member the audience member may be provided with a query generated by the UF query generation module to obtain user feedback. The query generated by the UF query generation module may be provided to the audience member selected by the UF query audience selection module as part of a listing of user feedbacks available for participation by the selected audience member. Once the generated query is provided to the selected audience member the selected audience member may initiate a user feedback session in which the generated query is presented to the audience member e.g. with one or more response methods associated with the generated query and the selected audience member can provide one or more responses e.g. by way of one or more response methods included with the generated query .

Depending on the embodiment where a word or phrase is selected for user feedback before the audience member is selected the audience member may be selected from a set of candidate audience members based on the selected word or phrase e.g. whether the selected word or phrase matches the competency or preferences of the audience member . Alternatively where the audience member is selected before the word or selected is selected for user feedback the word or phrase selected may be based according to the audience member that is selected. The competency of a given audience member may be determined based on one or more feedback responses previously provided by the given audience member e.g. in connection with previous queries generated and provided to the given audience member and or one or more language capabilities of the audience member. An audience member for example may be evaluated to have requisite competency to provide user feedback for one or more words or phrases associated with a translation failure when the audience member has achieved a specific number of approved feedback responses. In another example an audience member may be evaluated to have competency in a specific language based on at least previously submitted feedback responses for a specific language the preferences of the audience member and or information related to the audience member that indicates their fluency in the specific language. In a further example an audience member who has previously submitted feedback responses that were evaluated as being incorrect or fraudulent e.g. nonsensical or fabricated responses may be determined to have lower competency.

For some embodiments once a given audience member has provided a response in connection with a word or phrase and the response is possibly approved the given audience member may not be re selected for providing user feedback for the same word or phrase. Certain embodiments may make an exception to this restriction when the given audience member provides a response in a language that is different from the language of a response previously submitted for the same word or phrase.

Where incentives are provided in return for user feedback e.g. upon approval of a feedback response various embodiments may select audience members based on a quota such as a time based quota e.g. hourly daily monthly yearly limit for submitting feedback responses or an incentives earned quota e.g. limit of in game currency or items awarded for incentive based user feedback where the quota is associated with individual audience members groups of audience members or some combination thereof. For some embodiments the UF query audience selection module may throttle or suspend availability of user feedback opportunities to one or more audience members based on various conditions such as the availability of computing resources for user feedback incentives rewarded in connection with user feedback quality of feedback response received in the past and the like.

The query response QR valuation module may be configured to determine the value or importance of a query or query response based on the word or phrase for which the query or query response is soliciting user feedback. Example of factors considered by various embodiments when determining the value a query or a query response may include the complexity of the word or phrase e.g. higher the complexity higher the value the importance of the word or phrase to transformation translation processes e.g. higher the importance higher the value the response method employed by the query or query response e.g. higher value for a free form response method over a selection form response method the type of word or phrase e.g. chatspeak abbreviation or colloquial or the one or more languages involved e.g. a query comprising an English word or phrase and that receives a French response has higher value than a query comprising an English word or phrase that receives an English response . In some embodiments an incentive rewarded for a given user feedback may be based on the value associated with the query or query response. For some embodiments the QR valuation module may be configured to determine a value for a query or query response based on the efficacy of previous queries or query responses in soliciting beneficial useful or accurate user feedback. Accordingly for some embodiments the value may be dynamically adjusted based on the latest efficacy of achieved by previous queries or query responses. In certain embodiments the QR valuation module may enable an administrator e.g. of the CTT system or another authorized user to manually assign or adjust values for queries and or query responses in connection with one or more user feedback.

The query API module may be configured to facilitate transmitting user feedback queries to selected audience members and or receiving query responses from selected audience members. In some embodiments the query API may be adapted to provide a listing of available user feedback opportunities available to the selected audience member provide queries relating to one or more the user feedback opportunities selected by the selected audience member receiving responses for one or more the user feedback opportunities selected by the selected audience member and or providing the selected audience member with the current status of query responses submitted for approval thus far e.g. status of approved rejected or pending awaiting approval . For some embodiments the query API may obtain one or preferences associated with a given audience member possibly from a chat client system being used by the given audience member to interact with the CTT system . As noted herein a preference associated with an audience member can determine selection of the word or phrase for which user feedback is solicited from the audience member and or can determine of whether the audience member is selected to receive a query for user feedback of a given word or phrase.

The response evaluation module may be configured to evaluate a query response submitted in connection with a query generated to obtain a user feedback. For some embodiments the response evaluation module may evaluate query responses in one or more phases.

During a validation phase the response evaluation module may disposition one or more unique responses submitted for a given generated query as approved or rejected for the given generated query. In some embodiments a unique response submitted in connection with a generated query to obtain user feedback may be considered pending approval until such time as the unique response has been approved as being valid for the word or phrase associated with the generated query or rejected as being invalid for the word or phrase associated with the generated query. As used herein a given unique response may include a set of responses similar but not exactly identical in syntax e.g. different punctuation or spacing a given unique response may be received by way of two or more response methods. A unique response is also referred to herein as a unique query response and a unique user feedback response. Depending on the embodiment more than one unique query response may be approved for a given generated query. For instance more than one unique response may be approved as defining a given word or phrase in connection with user feedback that being sought. Responses may for example be manually validated by an administrator or the like who reviews and dispositions the responses e.g. possibly only the unique responses . Additionally or alternatively responses may be validated by an automatic process which may approve and or reject submitted responses based on their count and or the thresholds associated with response counts. In some embodiments an automatic validation process may filter the top submitted responses for a given word or phrase and provide those top submitted responses to an administrator or the like for review and disposition. The validation phase may be performed by the response evaluation module periodically e.g. based on a schedule or based on a condition e.g. where the number of submitted responses pending approval has met or exceeded a threshold .

For some embodiments where a plurality unique user feedback responses e.g. definitions are provided for a given word or phrase the response evaluation module may automatically and or through manual admin input approve the top ranked unique user feedback response e.g. most popular response from the plurality but may only do so if that top ranked unique user feedback response is statistically significant. For instance where a first unique user feedback response was received twenty six times for a given word and a second unique user feedback response was received twenty four times for the same given word the first unique user feedback response may not be approved as the response for the given word even if it is the top ranked unique user feedback response for the given word. This is because twenty six is not statistically significant over twenty four. The first unique user feedback may not be selected until for example the first unique user feedback response remains the top ranked unique user feedback response and the response count reaches forty.

Given that phrases may be not be identical but may be similar in nature and convey the same intent for some embodiments a word error rate WER may be used to group unique user feedback responses that comprise a phrase. For two phrases WER may measure the substitutions deletions and insertions of words to convey similarity between the phrases.

For various embodiments where a plurality unique user feedback responses e.g. definitions are provided for a given phrase the response evaluation module may automatically and or through manual admin input approve the top ranked unique user feedback response but may only

During a check phase the response evaluation module may determine whether a response submitted by an audience member has been disposition as approved rejected or pending review e.g. pending approval . For some embodiments a data store may maintain the status of whether a unique response submitted by audience members in connection with a given word or phrase has been approved or rejected as a valid definition for the given word or phrase. Accordingly the check phase may determine the disposition of a response submitted for a given word or phrase by consulting with the data store that maintains the disposition status of unique responses previously submitted for the given words or phrase the submitted response shares the disposition status of the unique response that corresponds with the submitted response. Depending on the embodiment the check phase for a submitted response may be performed immediately or soon after the response has been submitted. Where a submitted response is determined to be still pending review during a check phase the check phase may be re performed at a later time possibly following a validation phase that causes the status of the identical or similar submitted responses to be affected. The status of the submitted response may be updated according to the current disposition of the submitted response as determined during the check phase. As described herein the current status of one or more responses submitted by a given audience member may be provided as a listing that reflects the current statuses for those responses. More regarding response status is discussed later with respect to .

The response evaluation module evaluation of the response may comprise determining whether the response is approved. The response may be approved based on at least one previous response provided by another person in response to another query the other query being previously generated to obtain feedback for the word or phrase from the other person. The response may be approved once the response is determined to accurately define the word or phrase.

The translation data store update module may be configured to update a transformation or a translation e.g. stored in the translation data store possibly based on the evaluation of a response submitted by a selected audience member for a user feedback query. For example where a submitted response in a first language is determined during response evaluation as being an approved definition for a given word in the same first language a transformation mapping the given word in the first language to the response in the first language will be added or updated accordingly. In another example where a submitted response in a second language is determined during response evaluation as being an approved definition for a given word in the first language a transformation mapping the given word in the first language to the response in the second language will be added or updated accordingly. The update of transformations or translations may be performed by the translation data store update module during or subsequent to a check phase that results in the disposition of a submitted response changing to approved.

The audience competence evaluation module may be configured to determine the competence of an audience member which may be indicative of the level of confidence associated with the audience member ability to provide accurate and or useful user feedback responses. As described herein the competency of a given audience member may be determined based on one or more feedback responses previously provided by the given audience member e.g. in connection with previous queries generated and provided to the given audience member and or one or more language capabilities of the audience member. An audience member for example may be evaluated to have requisite competency to provide user feedback for one or more words or phrases associated with a translation failure when the audience member has achieved a specific number of approved feedback responses. In another example an audience member may be evaluated to have competency in a specific language based on at least previously submitted feedback responses for a specific language the preferences of the audience member and or information related to the audience member that indicates their fluency in the specific language. In a further example an audience member who has previously submitted feedback responses that were evaluated as being incorrect or fraudulent e.g. gibberish responses may be determined to have lower competency.

The incentive reward module may be configured to reward an audience member with an incentive based on the evaluation of a response submitted by the audience member in connection with a query for user feedback. As described herein upon approval a submitted response an audience member may be rewarded with an incentive. The amount or type of incentive rewarded may be determined based on a number of factors including without limitation the value of the query or query response assigned by the QR valuation module the response method used by the audience member in responding to the query the amount s of incentives already rewarded e.g. to the audience member or to all audience members in connection with the particular word or phrase or through incentive based user feedback the language of the query or the language of the response provided and the type of word or phrase for which a response was submitted e.g. chatspeak abbreviation or special domain word or phrase . The incentive rewarded may comprise real world currency or virtual currency such as in game currency or in game item which may or may not have value outside its related virtual economy e.g. monetary value in a real world economy . For some embodiments the incentive may comprise a real world good or service or a virtual good or service which may have an associated monetary value. Those skilled in the art that other forms of incentives may be rewarded in different embodiments.

For some embodiments the incentive reward module may be responsible for notifying an audience member when one or more of their submitted responses are approved and or when an incentive has been awarded to the audience member for a submitted response that has been approved. In various embodiments the incentive reward module may notify the audience member of the incentive reward through a notification message e.g. in chat message such as a pop up message and or through an update to a listing of statuses for submitted responses.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for various embodiments a system for user feedback may include more or less components than those illustrated in and each component illustrated in may perform more or less operations than those described for each component.

As shown in the chat client system may comprise a chat client controller a chat client communications module and a chat client graphical user interface GUI module . In some embodiments the chat client controller the chat client communications module and the chat client GUI module may be similar to the components of the chat client system as described herein.

As also shown in the chat client system may comprise a transformation user feedback UF query preferences module and a transformation user feedback UF query graphical user interface GUI module . For some embodiments the UF query preferences module and or the UF query GUI module facilitate user feedback interactions with respect to the CTT system . In the context of the chat client system a chat user of the chat client system can be an audience member with respect to the user feedback systems of various embodiments e.g. the CTT system .

The UF query preferences module may be configured to manage and otherwise permit a chat user to preview defined and or adjust preferences in relation to the user feedback features provided in connection with user feedback systems of some embodiment e.g. the CTT system . Example of preferences managed by UF query preferences module may include for instance language preferences relating to user feedback e.g. language of words or phrases solicited for user feedback and or language of the user feedback sought preferred response methods for user feedback queries e.g. select form responses over free form responses or preferred word or phrase types e.g. abbreviations chatspeak physics related or idioms and the like.

As used herein a select form response is a response that is predetermined and selectable from a listing of two or more select form responses. Depending on the embodiment a listing of select form responses may permit an audience member to select two or more responses when applicable. A free form response is a response that comprises a text based value e.g. character value or string value entered into a field by an audience member.

The UF query GUI module may graphically facilitate the presentation of a query generated for user feedback and provided to a chat user e.g. by the CTT system presentation of one or more response methods associated with the query and or receiving a response from the chat user through the presented response method. The UF query GUI module may also facilitate management of management of preferences through the UF query preferences module . More regarding with the graphical user interfaces that may be presented at a chat client system is described later with respect to .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that for various embodiments a client system for user feedback may include more or less components than those illustrated in and each component illustrated in may perform more or less operations than those described for each component.

The undefined words phrases data store may comprise a word or phrase associated with a translation failure and for which user feedback is being sought. The undefined words phrases data store may include with the word or phrase a sample sentence in which the word or phrase is used e.g. word or phrase context a confidence measure that indicates us how important the word or phrase is e.g. word importance source language for the word or phrase a target language for the user feedback sought and the like. In some embodiments the word importance of a word or phrase in the undefined words phrases data store may initial equal for all words but gets increased as the word or phrase is encountered and problematic and or untranslatable.

The recorded responses data store may comprise a user feedback response received from an audience member and recorded for a word or phrase included in the undefined words phrases data store . In some embodiments the user feedback response comprises a response received for a query generated to obtain user feedback with respect to the word or phrase. The undefined words phrases data store may include with the recorded user feedback response an identifier for the audience member submitting the user feedback response a timestamp for when the user feedback response was received and or recorded an indication of whether the recorded user feedback response is approved a timestamp for when the recorded user feedback response is approved and the like.

The feedback audience data store may comprise a set of identifiers for audience members that chosen to participate in user feedback for a word or phrase included in the undefined words phrases data store . The feedback audience data store may include with each identifier for an audience member a confidence score that reflects the consistency competency and or confidence of the audience member in providing user feedback responses.

The response approval data store may comprise each unique user feedback response received in connection with a word or phrase included in the undefined words phrases data store . The response approval data store may include with each unique user feedback response an indication of whether the unique user feedback response is an approved response e.g. correct response a rejected response e.g. incorrect response a response pending review e.g. response needing review or a response having some other status. In some embodiments the response approval data store may be employed in determining when a user feedback response received from an audience member and recorded in the recorded responses data store has been approved.

According to some embodiments the translation failure management module may be configured to review chat logs possibly provided by the chat data store and identify one or more words or phrases associated with actual or potential translation failures. In various embodiments the translation failure management module may be configured to exclude those words or phrases defined in the dictionary data store which may comprise a standard dictionary e.g. Oxford dictionary and or a dictionary of words or phrases e.g. chatspeak words or phrases that an embodiment described herein can parse recognize and or handle. Words or phrases identified by the translation failure management module may be added to the undefined words phrases data store thereby enabling those added words and phrases to be selected for user feedback from select audience members.

The translation failure management module may be configured to select one or more words or phrases possibly from the undefined words phrases data store for user feedback. For some embodiments the translation failure management module may select from a set of words or phrases designated as having the highest importance in the undefined words phrases data store e.g. selected from top important words or phrases in the undefined words phrases data store . In some embodiments the translation failure management module may select two or more words or phrases so that an audience member can be provided with a set of two or more user feedbacks from which to choose to respond e.g. enable the audience member to choose those user feedbacks to which they feel most confident responding . The selection process by the translation failure management module from the undefined words phrases data store may be random based on word or phrase importance age of the word or phrase in the undefined words phrases data store a preference of the selected audience member by the UF query audience selection module whether the audience member selected by the UF query audience selection module has already responded to the word or phrase to be selected e.g. determine based on checking the recorded responses data store for the word or phrase to be selected and the like.

The UF query audience selection module may be configured to select one or more audience members possibly from the feedback audience data store from whom user feedback may be sought. As described herein the user feedback may be sought for the words or phrases selected by the translation failure management module possibly from the chat data store . The selection of an audience member from the feedback audience data store may be dependent on the competency level associated with the audience member.

The UF query generation module may be configured to generate one or more queries for the words or phrases selected by the translation failure management module possibly from the undefined words phrases data store for user feedback. As shown the translation failure management module may provide the UF query generation module with the selected words or phrases for which one or more queries are to be generated. As described herein the UF query generation module may consider a number of different factors when generating the query including for instance the preferences of the audience members selected by the UF query audience selection module and the word or phrase selected for user feedback by the translation failure management module . Eventually the UF query generation module may provide the chat client system with the one or more queries generated by the UF query generation module which may have generated a different query for each word selected and provided by the translation failure management module .

Eventually the one or more queries generated by the UF query generation module may be provided to the chat client system which in turn would present the provided queries for selection by a user at the chat client system . Depending on the embodiment the UF query generation module may provide the generated queries to the chat client system or alternatively another component may be responsible for providing the generated queries to the chat client system. Once presented to the generated queries are presented for selection at the client chat system the user at the client chat system may choose to respond to one or more of the presented queries and those responses provided by the chat client system may be added e.g. recorded to the recorded responses data store .

When a response is added to the recorded responses data store some embodiments check the added response may be evaluated by the response evaluation module . As described herein the response evaluation module may evaluate of a response by check the response and disposition the status of a response.

As shown in the response evaluation module comprises a response check module which may be configured to perform a status check of a user feedback response during evaluation of the user feedback response. The response check module may check the status of a user feedback response from the client chat system by retrieving the user feedback response from the recorded responses data store and checking the status of the unique response in the response approval data store that corresponds to the retrieved user feedback response. In doing so the response check module can determine whether a given user feedback response is approved or rejected. The approval status of the retrieved user feedback response in the recorded responses data store may be updated according to the latest status check performed by the response check module . Where the response check module determines that a retrieved user feedback response has been approved the approval status of the retrieved user feedback response in the recorded responses data store may be updated to reflect the approval and to include a timestamp for when the approval status was updated. Eventually the approval reflected in the recorded responses data store for the retrieved user feedback response may result in the incentive reward module rewarding an incentive to the audience member that submitted the approved user feedback response.

If the status of the retrieved translation response is still pending review the response check module may re check the status of the retrieved user feedback response at a later time e.g. according to a predetermined schedule . If the status of the retrieved translation response is rejection the approval status of the retrieved user feedback response in the recorded responses data store may be updated to reflect the rejection.

Where a unique response corresponding the retrieved user feedback response is not found the retrieved user feedback response can be added to the response approval data store as a unique response for the word or phrase for which the user feedback response was provided e.g. by a user at the chat client system . Additionally where a retrieved user feedback response is added to the response approval data store as a unique response the unique response may have the initial status of pending approval which will remain until such time as the status of the unique response is manually or automatically dispositioned e.g. through the evaluation response module .

As shown in the response evaluation module also comprises a response validator which may be configured to disposition the status a unique user feedback response as being approved rejected or pending approval. As described herein a unique user feedback response submitted in connection with a generated query to obtain user feedback may be considered to be pending approval until such time as the unique user feedback response has been approved as being valid for the word or phrase associated with the generated query or rejected as being invalid for the word or phrase associated with the generated query.

For some embodiments the response evaluation module may be configured to determine when a given word or phrase no longer in need of additional user feedback. The response evaluation module may make such a determined based on such example of factors as how many unique user feedback response have been approved for the given word or phrase and whether the count of a unique and approved user feedback response has met or exceeded a specific threshold. When a given word or phrase is determined to longer need further user feedback the response evaluation module may be configured to remove the given word or phrase from the undefined words phrases data store thereby removing the word or phrase from future selection e.g. by the translation failure management module for user feedback.

As described herein the incentive reward module may reward an incentive to an audience member once a user feedback response they have provided has been approved as a valid response for the word or phrase for which the user feedback response was provided e.g. by the audience member through the chat client system . The incentive reward module may identify one or more user feedback responses in the recorded responses data store that were recently approved e.g. their approval status were recently updated to reflect the approval and or that were approved since the last time the incentive reward module attempted to identify one or more user feedback responses in the recorded responses data store having an approved status. The incentive reward module may determine when a given user feedback response was last approved based on the approval timestamp included for the user feedback response in the recorded responses data store . For some embodiments once an incentive is rewarded for a translated feedback response in the recorded responses data store the translated feedback response may be removed from the recorded responses data store . Alternatively once an incentive is rewarded for a translated feedback response in the recorded responses data store the translated feedback response may be updated in the recorded responses data store to indicate for instance when an incentive has been rewarded the amount of incentive rewarded the type of incentive rewarded when the audience member was notified of the reward and or how the audience member was notified of the incentive reward.

The screenshot presents a listing of available user feedback opportunities for various words e.g. Skrilla Booty Cray Hecka and Freshness . The screenshot provides an example of a query presented to an audience member to obtain user feedback for the word Skrilla. As shown the query provides an example context in which the word Skrilla is used and also provides a field configured to receive a free form response for the query . An audience member may be led to the screenshot when the user feedback for the word Skrilla is selected by the audience member from the listing of screenshot .

The screenshot presents an example of a query presented to an audience member to obtain user feedback for the various words. As shown the query provides an audience member with the option to skip the process of providing a response to the query . Certain embodiments may avoid inaccurate and or fabricated responses to various user feedback queries by providing an audience member with the option to skip certain user feedback opportunities and or various user feedback queries 

The screenshot provides an example of a query presented to an audience member to obtain user feedback for the phrase Pardon my french. As shown the query provides an example context in which the phrase Pardon my french is used and also provides a field configured to receive a free form response for the query . An audience member may be led to the screenshot when the user feedback for the phrase Pardon my french is selected by the audience member from the listing of screenshot .

The screenshot provides an example of a query presented to an audience member to obtain user feedback for the word Skrilla. Included with the query is a select form responses which lists possible responses from which an audience member can select. The screenshot presents an incentive e.g. 5 gold coins being rewarded by notifications and once a correct response money is selected for the word Skrilla. 

According to some embodiments a select form response method used to obtain user feedback for a given word or phrase may comprise a listing of predefined responses selected from free form responses gathered for the given word or phrase. Accordingly as various audience members provide free form responses for the word Skrilla through the field e.g. A lot of money Cash Money and Really Rich the response collected may be useful in creating a listing of select form responses as shown in the screenshot .

As shown in chat communication i.e. Tru dat bro entered by chat user Aramis in the interface of the first chat client system fails to translate when it is sent to the interface of the second chat client system of chat user tapir. The chat communication i.e. Tru dat bro presented to chat user tapir reflects this translation failure by presenting the original chat communication entered by chat user Aramis and indicating to chat user tapir that the chat communication is the original chat message entered by chat user Aramis. 

The translation failure illustrated by may be one that can benefit from user feedback in accordance with some embodiments. In accordance with some embodiments the translation failure illustrated in may be identified by the translation failure management module and one or more words from the original chat communication i.e. Tru dat bro may be added to the undefined words phrases data store for future selection for user feedback from participating audience members. For example each of words Tru dat and bro may be added to the undefined words phrases data store for future user feedback of each.

