---

title: Hand-held device with reagents and method for detection and diagnostics
abstract: A hand-held device and method of processing a biological threat agent sample such that any infectious organism is rendered harmless while preserving it for subsequent testing, the method comprising placing a sample comprising a biological threat agent in a reservoir; adding a first reagent comprising peracetic acid in sufficient concentration to reach a predetermined minimal concentration after mixing with the sample in the reservoir; inactivating the sample upon interaction of the sample with the first reagent for a predetermined period of time at a predetermined temperature; removing the inactivated sample from the reservoir; and providing the inactivated sample for subsequent diagnostic testing, wherein the subsequent diagnostic testing is unaffected by inactivation of the sample. In another embodiment, the first reagent comprises a cupric salt, which is mixed with ascorbic acid and hydrogen peroxide to generate cupric ascorbate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063046&OS=09063046&RS=09063046
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09063046
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 13 445 490 filed on Apr. 12 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 658 088 which is commonly assigned.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 494 118 filed on Jun. 7 2011 the contents of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to diagnostic devices and methods and more particularly to a hand held device with reagents and methods for rendering safe to handle samples with infectious agents while preserving bacterial and viral signatures for immune and genetic based detection diagnostics and forensics.

The high risk associated with biological threat agents determines that any suspicious sample be handled under strict surety and safety controls and processed under high level containment in specialized laboratories. These specialized facilities are complex very expensive to operate and need to be staffed by personnel from an extremely limited pool of experts. In addition safe means of transporting samples suspected of containing highly virulent agents to specialized high level containment laboratories for analysis is also expensive requiring in many countries the custody of armed personnel. It can be estimated that several million dollars are spent annually worldwide to secure and safely transport an ever increasing stream of suspicious biological samples which are collected in theatres of war as well as in domestic environments.

As an example U.S. Pat. No. 7 851 207 issued on Dec. 14 2010 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference describes a device used to identify a variety of microbial agents simultaneously. The 207 patent is advantageous for the purposes for which it was developed. The sample agents that are tested are generally not preserved for subsequent detection diagnostics or forensics. Moreover the 207 patent provides denaturation and purification steps that prevent immune based testing. However while the 207 patent analyses the sample using a single and specific nucleic acid based methodology hybridization it does not preserve the sample for future testing. Accordingly there remains a need for diagnostic techniques that reserve potentially dangerous samples for future immune or various nucleic acid based testing.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a method of processing a biological threat agent sample such that any infectious organism is rendered harmless while preserving it for subsequent testing the method comprising placing a sample comprising a biological threat agent in a reservoir adding a first reagent comprising peracetic acid in sufficient concentration to reach a predetermined minimal concentration after mixing with the sample in the reservoir inactivating the sample upon interaction of the sample with the first reagent for a predetermined period of time at a predetermined temperature removing the inactivated sample from the reservoir and providing the inactivated sample for subsequent diagnostic testing wherein the subsequent diagnostic testing is unaffected by inactivation of the sample. Peracetic acid in the reservoir should be in sufficient concentration so as to reach after mixing with the sample a minimal concentration of 0.03 v v. For example a tested effective mixture includes placing peracetic acid of 0.06 v v in the reservoir to which an equal volume of the sample is added resulting in an active final concentration of 0.03 v v. The sample and the first reagent may be placed in the reservoir for approximately 30 minutes at approximately 21 C. The method may further comprise adding a second reagent comprising any of diluents and catalase in the reservoir to decompose any remaining peracetic acid after inactivation. The subsequent diagnostic testing may comprise any of a polymerase chain reaction test and an enzyme linked immunoassays test. The peracetic acid preferably comprises 0.03 peracetic acid as a final active concentration after diluting with the sample.

Another embodiment provides a method of processing biological threat agents the method comprising placing a sample comprising a biological threat agent in a reservoir comprising a first reagent comprising a cupric salt such as chloride or sulfate generating in situ cupric ascorbate by adding to the reservoir a second reagent comprising ascorbic acid and an amount of hydrogen peroxide that is in sufficient quantity to assure oxygenation of the mixture inactivating the sample upon interaction of the sample with the cupric ascorbate mixture for a predetermined period of time at a predetermined temperature removing the inactivated sample from the reservoir and providing the inactivated sample for subsequent diagnostic testing wherein the subsequent diagnostic testing is unaffected by inactivation of the sample. The sample with the first reagent and second reagent may be left in the reservoir for approximately 30 minutes at approximately 21 C. The subsequent diagnostic testing may comprise any of a polymerase chain reaction test nucleic acid hybridization or other nucleic acid based tests and an enzyme linked immunoassay immunoprecipitation and any other immuno based test. Moreover the cupric salt may comprise cupric chloride. The first reagent may comprise a cupric salt in sufficient concentration so as to result in a final concentration of 0.5 w v in cupric ions after dilution with the sample and the second reagent. The concentration of ascorbic acid should provide a final concentration such that mixing the sample and first reagent results in 0.1 w v ascorbate and a small amount of hydrogen peroxide to assure aerobiosis presence of oxygen in a final concentration after mixing with all others of 0.003 v vt. For example a tested mixture resulting in concentrations with adequate potency comprising 5 volumes of cupric chloride 2 w v in cupric ions in a first reservoir of the device and in a second reservoir 4 volumes of ascorbic acid 0.5 w v with 1 volume of hydrogen peroxide 0.06 v v. At the time of use 10 volumes of sample are added to the device and all components are mixed together. The mixture indicated above results in final concentrations of 0.5 w v cupric ions 0.1 w v ascorbate and 0.003 v v peroxide. The method may further comprise adding ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid to the inactivated sample. Peracetic acid is the only biocidal reagent while cupric ascorbate inactivation employs two reagents mixed in situ.

Another embodiment provides a hand held device for sample preparation of samples suspected of containing biological threat agents the device comprising a reservoir that holds a sample comprising a biological threat agent a first dispensing unit operatively connected to the reservoir wherein the first dispensing unit adds a first reagent comprising peracetic acid in sufficient concentration to reach a predetermined minimal concentration after mixing with the sample in the reservoir wherein the sample becomes inactivated upon interaction of the sample with the first reagent for a predetermined period of time at a predetermined temperature and a filter operatively connected to the reservoir and the first dispensing unit wherein the filter removes the inactivated sample from the reservoir wherein the inactivated sample is capable for subsequent diagnostic testing and wherein the subsequent diagnostic testing is unaffected by inactivation of the sample. The sample and the first reagent may be placed in the reservoir for approximately 30 minutes at approximately 21 C. The device may further comprise a second dispensing unit operatively connected to the reservoir wherein the second dispensing unit adds a second reagent comprising any of diluents catalase and a mixture of ascorbic acid and hydrogen peroxide into the reservoir. In the peracetic acid based method the peracetic acid preferably comprises 0.03 peracetic acid. In the cupric ascorbate based method the cupric salt may comprise cupric chloride as the first reagent and the second reagent may comprise ascorbic acid and a small amount of hydrogen peroxide to provide after mixing with the sample the final concentrations described above.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a cost effective method for specific microbicidal chemistry and associated hardware including a hand held device to rapidly inactivate high threat biological agents in suspected samples without hindering subsequent identification. Accordingly the embodiments herein allow for a significant cost savings of the several million dollars currently spent annually to secure and safely transport an ever increasing stream of suspicious samples suspected to contain virulent agents which are collected in military and non military settings both domestically and internationally. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The embodiments herein provide unique chemical compositions that can completely kill all organisms being tested while preserving the performance of detection and diagnostic methods. Experimental testing is performed on the effect of a wide variety of microbicidal agents on a the survival of vegetative bacteria bacterial spores DNA viruses and RNA viruses b the performance of DNA based detection and diagnostic methods and c the performance of immune based detection and diagnostic methods in order to develop the aforementioned chemical compositions.

Considerable knowledge has been accumulated regarding the efficiency of microbicidal reagents and methods particularly on inactivating bacterial spores in liquids on surfaces or in aerosols but the subsequent deleterious effect of these disinfectants on the performance of either nucleic acid or immune based diagnostics precluded their use for processing of suspected field samples. As a result the embodiments herein include experimental testing of two aldehydes formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde a halogenating agent hypochlorite two peroxides hydrogen peroxide and peracetic acid and a free radical damaging agent cupric ascorbate . In addition the experimental testing included a chaotropic agent guanidium thiocyanate with the well established ability to dissociate biological structures and liberate intact nucleic acids for analysis. Spores of . are selected as an example microbial target because these have been frequently used in sporicidal studies and also because spores of show similar sensitivity to chemical germicides than virulent strains of . Cells of . are selected for testing because this bacterium is in the group with the highest resistance to disinfection among the vegetative cells of bacteria frequently causing human infection in hospitals.

To assess the effect of disinfectants on viruses mainly on the potential hindrance on virus detection the Vaccinia virus VACV is included in the experimental testing which is an orthopoxvirus with DNA genome generally used as a surrogate for the Smallpox virus and Pixuna virus PIXV which is an alphavirus that has been used as a simulant or surrogate for the Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus and other highly pathogenic RNA viruses. The inactivation of all these microorganisms is followed for more than 6 log since this is the standard assurance level generally accepted for safety of medical devices and contaminated environments based on the American ASTM Standard E 2414 05 . The effect of germicidal agents is studied on the performance of polymerase chain reaction PCR tests as it is one of the most frequently used nucleic acid based diagnostic methods and an enzyme linked immunoassays ELISA which is one of the most widely used immunedetection methods.

The embodiments herein provide for the screening of chemical methods that completely inactivate pathogens with minimal impairment of diagnostics. The concentrations generally employed for chemical disinfection and sterilization of microbial pathogens correspond to hypochlorite 0.05 v v volume volume volume concentration glutaraldehyde 2 v v peracetic acid 0.03 v v formaldehyde 8 v v hydrogen peroxide 10 and cupric ascorbate at 0.5 in cupric ions w v mass volume mass concentration . Bacterial spores and viruses are exposed to the different chemical germicides at the following concentrations hypochlorite 0.05 v v glutaraldehyde 2 v v peracetic acid 0.03 v v formaldehyde 8 v v hydrogen peroxide 10 and cupric ascorbate at 0.5 in cupric ions w v as well as to one lower generally one tenth and one higher generally 10 fold concentration.

In addition to commonly used germicides the effect of guanidium thiocyanate which is known to disrupt cells and liberate nucleic acids without damaging them is also included in the experimental testing. One requirement for selection of disinfecting agents is the complete fast and reliable inactivation of spores at or near room temperature since any method to be developed should be rapid and fieldable. The results of these exploratory experiments with common disinfecting and inactivating chemicals are summarized in . The efficiency of the reagents is rated not only for their reduction of infectivity but also for their preservation of immunological reactivity and nucleic acid detection.

As demonstrated by the data in some chemical germicides such as hydrogen peroxide formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde did not completely kill all of the spores challenged in testing. These same chemicals at their concentration of use also impair the performance of PCR and ELISA tests to detect spores and viruses as illustrated in .

This impairing effect on PCR and ELISA is more pronounced on viruses than on spores for example see . are graphical representations illustrating the deleterious effect of selected germicidal agents on PCR assays according to an embodiment herein. More particularly depict the deleterious effects of different concentrations of formaldehyde and sodium hypochloride treatment at a reaction time of 30 min at 21 C. on PIXV and spores PCR analysis in comparison to untreated controls. Microbes are treated with either water as a non microbicidal control To or with Formaldehyde FA or sodium hypochlorite NaClO at the concentrations indicated inside the legend boxes in . The PCR proceeded as described further below in the listing of materials and methods and the relative fluorescence as a function of number of amplification cycles is shown for PIXV in or for spores of in .

Formaldehyde 8 decreases the relative fluorescence of PCR testing of spores but has only a minimal effect on their Ct value see . In contrast sodium hypochlorite at the concentration generally used in liquid sterilization 0.05 v v completely inhibits PCR assays of spores and viruses see as well as the ELISA of PIXV. Guanidium thiocyanate at 3.5 M close to its maximal aqueous solubility does not hinder PCR or ELISA but has little inactivating effect on spores and PIXV see FIG. . Incubation at room temperature 21 C. with either 0.5 cupric ascorbate or with 0.03 peracetic acid reduces spores and virus titer by at least 6 loghindering diagnostic performance of PCR and ELISA slightly except that for PIXV the preliminary ELISA results are negative.

The embodiments herein provide for selected chemical inactivation methods suitable for subsequent diagnostics. The results from the agent screening shown in FIG. I clearly indicates peracetic acid and cupric ascorbate as the two most promising chemical inactivating reagents for development of a fieldable inactivating method that will not impair subsequent diagnostics. For further and more detailed studies VACV is also included as a surrogate for the Smallpox virus and vegetative cells from as a bacterium with relatively high resistance to disinfection. Peracetic acid which at 0.03 v v kills beyond detection levels spores 6 logand PIXV 7 log affects the corresponding PCR and ELISA assays differently as shown in .

For both spores and viruses PCR sensitivity is only marginally affected see and the immunoassay of viruses are completely inhibited as the inactivating concentrations see . The ELISA signal results obtained for spores see are only affected by PAA at a concentration ten times higher than the concentration providing high microbicidal efficacy 0.03 and are generally used.

Accordingly the effect of cupric ascorbate at a concentration of 0.5 in Cu ions on PCR and ELISA assays is presented in showing that the impact of disinfection on PCR assay of spores or viruses is neglectable. At a five fold higher concentration than generally recommended for liquid sterilization the PCR signal is lost for PIXV and VACV but does not impair PCR of spores or

The data presented in indicate that peracetic acid and cupric ascorbate increase the number of PCR cycles relative to the number of cycles in the controls not exposed to germicidal agent to detect PIXV and VACV by about 4 cycles and 0 cycles respectively. also demonstrate that no change is observed in the number of PCR cycles to detect spores or vegetative bacteria between 0 and 1 cycle respectively after inactivation with either peracetic acid or cupric ascorbate.

The limit of detection of ELISA tests to determine spores is marginally reduced after treatment with peracetic acid or with cupric ascorbate. In contrast using ELISA to detect viruses is sensitive to disinfection see . Several substances are included in the experiments in an attempt to minimize the impairing effect of peracetic acid and cupric ascorbate on viral ELISA. The addition to post disinfection mixes of catalase 32 to 320 units or of Tris EDTA pH 8 in order to degrade the remaining peroxide radicals in peracetic acid or neutralize acid cannot restore the PIXV ELISA signal after disinfection with peracetic acid. Among all the substances under testing EDTA best prevents the impairment of viral ELISAs by disinfection with cupric ascorbate. The results shown in indicates that cupric ascorbate without post treatment with EDTA completely inhibits immunological reactions with the PIXV and the VACV. However the addition of EDTA pH 8 up to a final concentration of 100 mM after the disinfection with cupric ascorbate protects the ELISA signal from VACV a virus whose genome is DNA to about 90 compared to the untreated sample. Immunoassays to detect PIXV a virus with RNA genome are more sensitive to cupric ascorbate since EDTA retains only about 20 of the signal compared to the untreated antigen. These results suggest that viral PIXV antigens are more sensitive to oxidation and inactivation by cupric ascorbate than VACV antigens.

Peracetic acid reduces the sensitivity of spores immunoassays to nearly 20 of the results obtained with untreated controls while cupric ascorbate has no impact on these assays. Moreover inactivation of vegetative bacteria bacterial spores or viruses with these reagents does not lead to false positive signals in subsequent PCR or ELISA testing.

As shown in with respect to the embodiments herein further include a hand held device to inactivate microbes in suspected samples without hindering subsequent diagnostics or detection. The device is dimensioned and configured to accommodate one or more of the reagents described above. The device includes a sample reservoir for example a jar or bottle with or without a rib etc. where the sample is resuspended or diluted in saline and a head unit which operatively connects to two dispensing mechanisms for example syringes for dispensing reagents. The head unit further includes a filter gripping ribs a pair of conduits and seal . The reservoir may include threads to engage with corresponding threads not shown of the head unit to create a connection between the reservoir and head unit . A corresponding seal may be included on the reservoir which may align with the seal of the head unit to create a liquid tight connection between the reservoir and head unit . The gripping ribs allow a user to rotate the head unit to open close the device .

In a first embodiment using peracetic acid as described above one of the dispensing mechanisms for example contains peracetic acid and the other dispensing mechanism for example can contain diluents catalase or left empty. The sample is introduced in the reservoir and mixed with saline for example. Dispensing mechanism with peracetic acid is emptied into reservoir via conduit and is left for approximately 30 minutes at room temperature. Afterwards discharging dispensing mechanism via conduit with catalase is optional depending on the type of subsequent analysis diagnostics to be performed. The device is then inverted and the inactivated sample is aspirated through the filter and into dispensing mechanism via conduit . Dispensing mechanism with the inactivated and filtered organisms is removed from the device and subjected to further analysis diagnostics under low containment requirements.

In a second embodiment cupric chloride or other cupric salt is in dispensing mechanism and a proper mixture of ascorbic acid and low amounts of hydrogen peroxide are in dispensing mechanism . Operation of the device is the same as described in the first embodiment with the subsequent addition of the treated samples to EDTA used as a preservative.

Seven commonly used liquid disinfectants are experimentally tested in accordance with the embodiments herein. The majority of these substances either partially inactivates the microbial load or severely impairs subsequent PCR and ELISA tests. The embodiments herein provide a rapid reliable and straightforward method for the complete inactivation of a wide range of pathogens including spores vegetative bacteria and viruses while preserving microbial nucleic acid fragments suitable for PCR reactions and proteinaceous epitopes for the detection of immunoassays. The experimental data demonstrates that a high level inactivation more than 6 log of vegetative bacteria bacterial spores and DNA or RNA viruses can be attained within approximately 30 minutes at 21 C. with either peracetic acid 0.03 or cupric ascorbate 0.5 in Cu treatment with only minimal hindrance in the subsequent performance of PCR.

Although sensitivity of immunoassays depends on the affinity and concentration of available antibodies the numerous ELISA that are experimentally performed with diverse liquid disinfectants and various microbes provide support to the conclusion that in general PCR assays withstand treatment with a variety of disinfectants better than immunoassays.

Peracetic acid disinfection maintains ELISA sensitivity from 84 to 90 of that of untreated controls during the detection of spores and vegetative bacteria nearly 50 for detection of VACV and completely inhibited ELISA detection of PIXV.

Disinfection with cupric ascorbate preserves the sensitivity of ELISA for vegetative bacteria and bacterial spores within 80 90 of untreated controls but without further treatment impairs the results of viral immunoassays. The addition of EDTA after incubation with cupric ascorbate preserves the signal in ELISA to detect VACV at nearly 90 of that in untreated controls and at 20 of the signal obtained with PIXV. Inactivation does not lead to false positive signals. These signal levels are adequate for environmental detection and identification of environmental samples.

The relatively rapid inactivation of the high microbial loads in the experimental samples at room temperature by cupric ascorbate or peracetic acid used as described herein are effective means of quickly rendering field samples suspected of containing infectious agents safe for further analysis under lower containment and at considerably lower costs. Moreover sample disinfection with peracetic acid is simple and can be used before shipping suspected samples to those laboratories relying exclusively on PCR methods for the rapid detection of hazardous infectious agents. However decontamination with peracetic acid should be selected only if certain that immunoassays will never be performed on the disinfected samples since the inhibition of immunoassays by peracetic acid is considerable.

Although an additional step involving the addition of EDTA is used to preserve immunodiagnostic performance the relatively rapid and complete inactivation of all tested microbes at room temperature by cupric ascorbate appears as the most promising method to render field samples non infectious and thus easily and safely transportable for subsequent analysis and diagnostics by PCR and or immunodiagnostics. Some loss in immune reactivity for viruses should be expected during disinfection of samples with either cupric ascorbate or peracetic acid but this result should be more than compensated by the concomitant gains in surety safety and economy resulting from handling samples as non infectious and thus at a much lower containment level.

The experimental materials and methods used in accordance with the embodiments herein are described below. The listed materials and methods are examples only and the embodiments herein are not limited to these particular materials and methods.

Microbial species and sources strain ATCC 9372 is obtained from the American Type Culture Collection USA . Spores of are prepared in accordance with the DIN EN 14347 EN 14347 2005. Chemical disinfectants and antiseptics. Basic sporicidal activity. Test method and requirements phase 1 step 1 and resuspended at a concentration of 2 10spores per mL. strain DSm 1253 is obtained from the German strain culture collection Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH DSMZ Braunschweig Germany . On the day previous to each experiment one colony of originally isolated in Tryptone Soya Broth TSA Oxoid Wesel is seeded into 50 ml media and grown for approximately 20 hours at 37 C. with agitation. On the day of the experiment cells near the end of their exponential phase of growth are washed three times by centrifugation and resuspended in sterile distilled water. The titer of in the final working suspension ranges from 0.8 to 2.4 10 cfu mL. PIXV strain BeAr 35645 Brazil 1961 ATCC VR 371 is propagated in Baby Hamster Kidney cells BHK cells DSKZ ACC 33 DMSZ Braunschweig Germany at 37 C. in Eagle s Minimum Essential Medium EMEM available from Biochrom Berlin Germany containing 10 FCS and 0.1 penicillin streptomycin and harvested from infected cell monolayers at a concentration of 1.2 10TCID ml. VACV strain Elstree B5 Lister WHO reference strain Czerny and Mahnel 1990 is grown in BHK cells at 37 C. in Eagle s Minimum Essential Medium EMEM containing 10 FCS and 0.1 penicillin streptomycin and used at a TCID mL ranging from 2 10to 4 10.

Chemical disinfectants Formaldehyde and guanidium thiocyanate are available from Roth GmbH Karlsruhe Germany with the later being dissolved at a concentration of 7 M in sterile distilled water and its pH adjusted between 7 to 8 at room temperature with Tris HCl. Peracetic acid and sodium hypochlorite containing 6.7 active chlorine as determined by iodometric determination are available from Sigma Aldrich Taufkirchen Germany . Before use the hypochlorite solution is adjusted to pH 7.5 with hydrochloric acid. Glutaraldehyde available from Sigma Aldrich Taufkirchen Germany is activated before each experiment by adjusting it to pH 9.3 with sodium bicarbonate. Hydrogen peroxide 30 is available from Merck VWR International Darmstadt Germany. Cupric chloride dehydrate 99 ACS reagent Sigma Aldrich Taufkirchen Germany and 0.003 hydrogen peroxide with this last substance being added to assure instant liquid oxygenation for efficient free radical generation.

Microbial inactivation A microbial suspension typically 50 l containing either 1 10spores mL 0.8 to 2.4 10cells mL 1.2 10PIXV Tissue Culture Infectious Dose 50 TCID mL or 4 10VACV TCID mLis dispensed into 1.5 ml Eppendorf type tubes carefully avoiding microbial contamination of the inside walls of the tube above liquid level. An equal volume of either PBS as a control without inactivating effect or disinfectant at various concentrations is added and the mixture with microbes and disinfectant is incubated at 21 C. for 30 minutes with a 10 second initial mixing at 300 rpm Eppendorf Thermomixer comfort Eppendorf AG. Hamburg Germany . Only cupric ascorbate is prepared in situ by adding to 50 l of microbial suspension 25 l cupric chloride at 4 fold the intended final concentration followed by 20 l of ascorbic acid at 5 and finally 5 l of hydrogen peroxide at 20 the intended final concentration. After disinfectant treatment nine volumes 900 l of either ice cold Tryptone Soya Broth TSB Oxoid Wesel Germany for bacteria or ice cold EMEM with 10 fetal calf serum for viruses are added to the treatment mixes in order to slow down any remaining inactivation process. Surviving bacteria are analyzed in aliquots by serial dilution and titration onto TS agar plates. Viruses are serially diluted in EMEM supplemented with 5 fetal calf serum and in dilutions ranging from between 10to 10plated on to BHK cell monolayers in 96 well cell culture microtest plates. The medium is removed from cells and the virus in the sample 25 l is adsorbed for one hour. The inoculum is removed and replaced with fresh EMEM with 10 FCS 25 l per well before the plates are incubated overnight at 37 C. in 4 COatmosphere. The amount of surviving virus is determined by the TCIDmethod on BHK cell monolayers. Other aliquots of the same exposed sample are tested by PCR and ELISA as described below.

DNA and RNA preparation Nucleic acids DNA or RNA from VACV or PIXV respectively are extracted from a 100 l aliquot of the sample inactivated with the studied disinfectants. Purification is performed by using either the QIAamp DNA Mini Kit or the QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit Qiagen Hilden Germany according to the manufacturer s instructions with minor modifications. Viral DNA and RNA are eluted with 100 l of the cognate buffer. Generally 1 l of DNA is subjected to the VACV specific real time PCR rtPCR and 5 l of the cognate buffer. Generally 1 l of DNA is subjected to the VACV specific real time PCR rtPCR and 5 l RNA is subjected to the PIXV specific real time Reverse Transcriptase PCR rtRT PCR .

rtPCR and rtRT PCR For real time PCR either the one step RT PCR the HotStarTaq system or the TaqDNA Polymerase system from Qiagen GmbH or either ice cold Tryptone Soya Broth TSB Oxoid Wesel Germany for bacteria or Hilden Germany chemistries are used with either TaqMan or SYBR Green1 TIB Molbiol GmbH Berlin Germany respectively. The fluorescent reporter dye of the viral probe is a 6 carboxyfluorescent FAM located at the 5 end in all 5 nuclease assays. The quencher a 6 carboxy tetramethyl rhodamine TAMRA is located at the 3 end. Purified nucleic acids are used in viral PCR assays and extensively washed and resuspended spores or vegetative cell suspensions are directly applied to the respective PCR test. The rtPCR as well as the rtRT PCR assays are performed in microtest plates Biozym Scientific GmbH Germany in a final volume of either 25 l or 20 l on an Opticon device Type 1 BioRad Laboratories Inc. USA . Primer 5 nuclease probe SYBR Green I Mg and dNTP concentrations are optimized by titration. Each real time PCR and RT PCR is performed in duplicates or triplicates and individual experiments are repeated two to four times. Negative controls contain water instead of a potential nucleic acid template. Impairment of disinfectants on either PCR or RT PCR tests are correlated to the C Cycle threshold which corresponds to the first cycle number in which the fluorescence signal significantly increases from the baseline and background.

Enzyme linked immunoassay ELISA All ELISAs are performed in 96 microwell plates Maxisorb Thermo Fisher Scientific Dreieich Germany that are coated with 3 to 4 g antibody per well either by incubation over night at 4 C. or by incubation for two hours at 37 C. while plates for viral ELISAs are washed and blocked with 1 FCS in PBS T PBS plus 0.01 Tween 20 for I hour at room temperature RT . Plates for bacterial ELISAs are blocked with 1 low fat milk powder in PBS for 30 minutes at RT. In addition plates for viral ELISA are overlayed with liquid plate sealer Candor Bioscience GmbH Wangen Germany and are used for ELISA studies within three to four weeks. Plates for bacterial ELISAs are used and freshly coated each time.

For the detection of PIXV the species specific monoclonal antibody PixcT 6 2 are used available from the University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover Germany as the capture antibody. For the detection of VACV an equimolar mixture of the monoclonal antibodies mAB 5B1 and 5B4 can be used. and endospores are captured with specific rabbit polyclonal pAb antibodies produced in a laboratory setting. Antigen incubation is performed for either one or two hours at room temperature 21 C. or at 37 C. Bound viral and bacterial antigens are detected by using either biotinylated species specific monoclonal mAb WIS pAb anti 1 400 and after extensive washing the conjugate Streptavidin horseradish peroxidase PSA available from GE Healthcare USA is added to the wells diluted 1 6000 in PBS FT. Plates are incubated for 30 min at 21 C. with agitation and after three washes with PBS T staining is performed with the colorimetric substrate 3 3 5 5 tetramethylbenzidine TMB available from Serva Heidelberg Germany for 10 minutes. Furthermore color development is stopped with 2 M sulphuric acid and absorbance is measured at 450 nm. Improvement of ELISA results obtained after cupric ascorbate disinfection is evaluated by the addition of EDTA pH 8 in a final concentration of 2 10 20 40 and 100 mM . The enhancement of ELISA results after peracetic acid can be attempted by the addition of either 1 M Tris pH 8 or catalase in a final concentration ranging from 32 to 324 units . All three potential ELISA enhancers EDTA Tris and catalase are available from Sigma Aldrich Germany and are added to samples after the 30 min inactivation with disinfectants.

The high risk associated with biologically threat agents determines that any suspicious sample should be handled under strict surety and safety controls and processed under high level containment in specialized laboratories. Accordingly the embodiments herein provide a rapid reliable and simply method and device for the complete inactivation of a wide range of pathogens including spores vegetative bacteria and viruses while preserving microbial nucleic acid fragments suitable for PCR reactions and other nucleic acid based methods and proteinaceous epitopes for the detection by ELISA or other immunoassays. Conventional methods and devices for providing disinfectants either do not inactivate completely high titers of bacterial spores or viruses or show high microbicidal activity but obliterate future PCR or ELISA diagnostic testing to detect bacterial spores or viruses. Among all the formulations experimentally tested only high level inactivation more than 6 log of bacterial spores vegetative bacteria an RNA virus the Alphavirus PIXV or a DNA virus the Orthopoxvirus VACV is attained within 30 minutes at 21 C. by treatment with either peracetic acid or cupric ascorbate with minimal hindrance of subsequent PCR tests and immunoassays. The method and device provided by the embodiments herein enable quick rendering of field samples of biological agents and permit further analysis under lower containment and at a lower cost than conventional solutions.

Accordingly the embodiments herein provide liquid reagents with high efficiency to inactivate microbial organisms and viruses that simultaneously preserve the high sensitivity of subsequent diagnostics performed at a lower level of containment and cost. The identified reagents are integrated into a self contained device for inactivation of microbes in environmental samples for subsequent detection and diagnostics.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

