---

title: Surface functionalization of metal organic frameworks for mixed matrix membranes
abstract: Mixed Matrix Membrane (MMM) are composite membranes for gas separation and comprising a quantity of inorganic filler particles, in particular metal organic framework (MOF), dispersed throughout a polymer matrix comprising one or more polymers. This disclosure is directed to MOF functionalized through addition of a pendant functional group to the MOF, in order to improve interaction with a surrounding polymer matrix in a MMM. The improved interaction aids in avoiding defects in the MMM due to incompatible interfaces between the polymer matrix and the MOF particle, in turn increasing the mechanical and gas separation properties of the MMM. The disclosure is also directed to a MMM incorporating the surface functionalized MOF.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09597643&OS=09597643&RS=09597643
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09597643
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141021
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The invention pertains to functionalized metal organic frameworks for incorporation into mixed matrix membranes for use in separation of gas mixtures. More particularly the invention pertains to surface functionalization of a metal organic framework through the addition of a pendant functional group in order to increase the compatibility of the metal organic framework with the surrounding polymer matrix of the mixed matrix membrane.

Membranes are a promising area of research for energy related gas separations such as COremoval from flue or fuel gas streams as well as natural gas sweetening. Polymeric membranes are cost effective and widely used for gas separation due to the ease of processing. However in polymeric membranes there is a tradeoff between improving selectivity and permeability. This tradeoff manifests itself in the Robeson upper bound which establishes upper limit combinations of permeability and selectivity for the best performing membranes. At the upper bound an increase in permeability is met with a decrease in selectivity. Conversely inorganic membranes have perm selectivities that are many times higher than traditional polymeric materials but are not economically feasible for large scale applications. Most ceramic glass and zeolitic membrane materials exhibit costs which are orders of magnitude higher per unit of membrane area when compared to polymeric membranes. Furthermore inorganic membranes are extremely difficult to fabricate into large defect free areas. Low surface area unit volume reproducibility and long term stability of inorganic membranes remains a challenge. A promising route to enhance gas transport properties and fabricate membranes which exceed the Robeson upper bound involves forming composite membranes between polymeric materials and inorganic filler particles to yield mixed matrix membranes MMM . In theory the advantages of both the polymer ease of processing low cost and the inorganic material favorable separation properties can be realized in a MMM.

MMMs traditionally employ rigid hydrophilic zeolites or carbon molecular sieve particles as the inorganic filler phase. These fillers have surfaces usually not compatible with glassy polymers and this incompatibility of surfaces results in defective polymer filler interfaces. J. R. Li et al. Chem. Rev. 112 869 932. The different non ideal structures in MMMs have been characterized as interface voids or sieve in a cage rigidified polymer layer around the inorganic fillers and particle pore blockage. In order to surpass the Robeson upper bound the structure of the MMM has to be defect free at the polymer filler interface. This ideal morphology is difficult to achieve due to poor polymer filler adhesion. Overcoming poor adhesion requires careful selection of a filler and polymer which are likely to interact well. However this limits the selection of polymers and fillers to only those that are likely to form a defect free interface.

The metal organic framework MOF is a relatively new class of porous materials which show promise as adsorbents and membranes for gas separation applications. MOFs are periodic structures that consist of metal ions or clusters interconnected by organic linking ligands. As a result of their organic inorganic hybrid structure MOFs may be made more compatible with polymers and show promise as filler materials in MMMs.

MOF structures are highly tailorable by varying the linking ligand and or metal ion one can introduce new functionality adjust the pore size and tune the chemical and gas transport properties to a specific application. Additionally it is possible to control and optimize the interactions between the polymer and the porous MOF filler particles thereby improving the mechanical and gas separation properties of the MMMs.

Provided herein is a metal organic frameworks functionalized by addition of a pendant functional group. The resulting functionalized metal organic framework has particular applicability to incorporation in a mixed matrix membrane for use in gas separation. Also provided herein is a mixed matrix membrane comprising the functionalized metal organic framework dispersed throughout a polymer matrix.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The present invention describes metal organic frameworks MOFs modified by post synthetic addition of a pendant functional group for use as fillers in mixed matrix membranes MMM . The functionalized MOF fillers have highly porous crystalline structures and exhibit characteristics such as large and accessible surface areas and interconnected micropores. MMMs incorporate the surface functionalized MOF fillers into a continuous polymer matrix. The polymer matrix can be selected from all kinds of one or more polymers. Exemplary glassy polymers include but are not limited to polyimides polyetherimides polysulfones and cellulose acetates. Exemplary rubbery polymers include but are not limited to polydimethylsiloxanes and polyethylene oxides. The MMMs bearing uniformly disbursed surface functionalized MOFs combine the properties of both the polymer matrix and the dispersed modified MOF fillers and are useful in gas separation operations.

Through the use of an organic pendant the present invention controls the interaction at the polymer MOF filler interface. By controlling the interaction at the interface on of the major challenges with MMMs poor interaction between the polymer and filler is mitigated. The surface functionalization of the MOFs presented here enables modification with a wide variety of functional groups while not altering the internal i.e. bulk structure of the MOF. The end result is a robust modified MOF to ensure good adhesion with the surrounding polymer matrix for fabricating MMMs with improved gas separation properties.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a metal organic framework MOF functionalized by post synthesis addition of a pendant functional group and a mixed matrix membrane MMM incorporating the surface functionalized MOF dispersed throughout a polymer matrix.

The functionalized MOFs of the present invention can have a selectivity that is significantly higher than the pure polymer membranes for separations. These MOFs are crystalline structures comprising repeating metal building units connected by linking ligands via metal ligands bonds. The MOF materials exhibit analogous behavior to that of conventional microporous and mesoporous materials such as large and accessible surface areas with interconnected intrinsic micropores or mesopores. As such the MOFs of the invention have very high surface area per unit volume and very high porosities. The pore sized may be controlled with the choice of linking ligand where larger linking ligands can provide for larger pore size. Additionally the materials comprising the MOF may be tailored to optimize the separation efficiency for a given gas mixture such as COfrom flue gas.

To control and optimize the interactions between the surrounding polymer of a MMM and a MOF structures are analyzed to determine functional groups that are likely to form an ideal interface between the polymer and the MOF. Organic pendant moieties with potential for highly favorable polymer interactions are then chemically linked to the surface of the MOF particle.

The materials of use for the present invention include MOFs with metal building units which may be base metal metal oxide metal cluster or metal oxide cluster building units where the metal is selected from the transition metals the alkali metals the alkaline earth metals and the icosagens. Preferentially the metals of the metal building units are selected from Co Cu Cd Fe Mg Mn Ni Ru Zn and Zr. More preferentially the metals of the metal building units are Co Cu Cd Fe Mg Mn Ni Ru and Zn.

The metal building units are connected by organic compounds known as linking ligands to form a porous crystalline structure. A practitioner will recognize the compounds available for use as linking ligands are numerable. Representative linking ligands for linking the adjacent metal building units include 1 3 5 benzenetribenzoate BTB 1 4 benzenedicarboxylate BDC cyclobutyl 1 4 benzenedicarboxylate CB BDC 2 amino 1 4 benzenedicarboxylate HN BDC tetrahydropyrene 2 7 dicarboxylate HPDC terphenyl dicarboxylate TPDC 2 6 naphthalene dicarboxylate 2 6 NDC pyrene 2 7 dicarboxylate PDC biphenyl dicarboxylate BDC or any di tri or tetra carboxylate having phenyl compounds.

Functionalization of the MOF of the pendant functional group to form an ideal interface between and surrounding polymer matrix and the MOF is performed after synthesis of the MOF as is represented in . Consequently functionalization necessarily requires the surface of the MOF to be accessible to the addition of the possible pendant functional groups. MOFs represent by UiO 66 NH via their linking ligands contain functional groups available as reaction sites for the addition of the pendant functional group represented by a phenyl acetyl group . The addition of the pendant functional group to the MOF results in a functionalized MOF with positive characteristics for an ideal interface between the functionalized MOF and polymer matrix of a MMM. Linking ligand functional sites available include for example carboxylates amines azides hydroxyls halogens aliphatic amines methyl ethyl and phenyl. Further the MOFs may include more than one type of open reaction site for example both exposed metal sites and amine groups.

Further linking ligands can be selected from those constructed using carboxylate based ligands imidazolate based ligands tetrazolate based ligands pyrozolate based ligands pyridyl based ligands triazolate based ligands tetrazolate based ligands. Representative MOF s incorporating these linking ligands include Zr carboxylate MOFs Al carboxylate MOFs Cr carboxylate MOFs zeolitic imidizolate frameworks ZIFs Fe carboxylate MOFs Ti Carboxylate MOFs and MOFs constructed using DOBDC dioxybenzene dicarboxylate or DOBPDC dioxybiphenyldicarboxylate . Ideal MOFs include water stable Zr carboxylate MOFs Ti carboxylate MOFs ZIFs and MOF 74 analogues those MOFs constructed with DOBDC or DOBPDC linkers .

Surface functionalization of the MOF to form an ideal interface between the polymer matrix and the MOF is performed by addition of a pendant functional group to the MOF post synthesis of the MOF. The organic pendant may be selected for characteristics favorable for interaction with the polymer such as polarity or bond conjugation. Further specific functional groups may be chosen such as allyls amines ethers halides phenyls hydroxyls and carboxyls.

The pendant functional groups may be C Csaturated or unsaturated straight chain branched or cyclic alkane alkene alkyne or esters and may incorporate single and multiple functional groups. They may incorporate heterocyclic or homocyclic ring systems that may be aromatic. The pendant functional groups may incorporate hydrocarbyls halides and oxygen nitrogen and sulfur based functional groups. Representative hydrocarbyl groups include aklenyl alkynyl phenyl and benzyl functional groups. Representative oxygen nitrogen and sulfur based functional groups include carbonyls aldehydes esters ethers hydroxyls thiols acetals carboxyls amides amines imides imines azides cyanates N heterocyclic rings thiols sulfides sulfoxides and sulfones. Preferentially the pendant functional group incorporates a functional group selected from alkenyl 4 8 member heterocyclic or homocyclic rings carbonyl carboxyl hydroxyl amine amide imine imide thiols sulfides and sulfones. Most preferentially the pendant functional group incorporates a functional group selected from alkenyl 5 6 member homocyclic or heterocyclic rings carbonyl carboxyl hydroxyl amine imide and thiols.

The mechanism for addition of the organic linker to the surface of the MOF is dependent on the MOF and pendant functional group. For example the type of reactions used to functionalize the MOF could include acid chloride reactions when the MOF linking ligand presents either an amine or an alcohol reaction of carboxylate moieties on the surface with an alcohol or amine using carbodiimide based reactions S2 reactions to form ether based linkages and quarternization of amines.

The degree of functionalization by addition of the pendant functional group onto the MOF may be controlled. Selection of pendants of sufficient size to have difficulty entering the pores of the MOF promotes addition of the pendant functional unit only to the linking ligands exposed at the surface of the MOF. Limitation of addition to the surface of the MOF safeguards the interior of the porous MOF to ensure gas permeation through the MOF is largely unaffected by the addition of the pendant functional unit itself. The percentage of linking ligands in a given MOF modified by addition of the pendant functional unit may be determined by methods known in the art such as H NMR. Preferentially less than or about 30 of the linking ligand in a MOF is modified by the addition of the pendant functional group. More preferentially less than or about 20 of the linking ligand in a MOF is modified by the addition of the pendant functional group. More preferentially less than or about 10 of the linking ligand in a MOF is modified by the addition of the pendant functional group. Most preferentially less than or about 5 of the linking ligand in a MOF is modified by the addition of the pendant functional group.

When the functionalized MOF is incorporated into a MMM the MOF is dispersed throughout a polymer matrix as is represented in . The MMM is comprised of a MOF dispersed throughout a polymer matrix . When used in gas separation permeate gas is able to quickly traverse the MMM by traveling through the porous MOF . A more hindered non permeate gas must travel around the MOF slowly traversing the MMM . The difference in rate of travel through the MMM allows for the separation of the individual gas components.

The polymer matrix is comprised of one or more polymers suitable for use in a MMM and may include grafts blends and substituted polymers thereof. Suitable polymer materials will pass the selected permeate gas preferentially over the other gasses of the gas mixture. Generally glassy polymers provide a selective environment for gas diffusion and are favored for gas separation applications. Rigid glassy polymers describe polymers with rigid polymer chain backbones that have limited intramolecular rotational mobility and are often characterized by having high glass transition temperatures Tg 150 C. . While glassy polymers are preferred rubbery polymers are contemplated for use in some applications of the invention.

Typical polymers suitable for the polymer matrix can be selected from but are not limited to polysulfones sulfonated polysulfones polyether sulfones PESs sulfonated PESs polyethers polyetherimides such as Ultem or Ultem 1000 sold under the trademark Ultem manufactured by GE Plastics poly styrenes including styrene containing copolymers such as acrylonitrilestyrene copolymers styrene butadiene copolymers and styrene vinylbenzylhalide copolymers polycarbonates cellulosic polymers such as cellulose acetate cellulose triacetate cellulose acetate butyrate cellulose propionate ethylcellulose methyl cellulose nitrocellulose polyamides polyimides such as Matrimid sold under the trademark Matrimid by Huntsman Advanced Materials Matrimid 5218 refers to a particular polyimide polymer sold under the trademark Matrimid and P84 or P84HT sold under the trade name P84 and P84HT respectively from HP Polymers GmbH polyamide imides polyketones polyether ketones poly arylene oxides such as poly phenylene oxide and poly xylene oxide poly esteramide diisocyanate polyurethanes polyesters including polyarylates such as poly ethylene terephthalate poly alkyl methacrylates poly acrylates poly phenylene terephthalate etc. polysulides polymers from monomers having alpha olenic unsaturation other than mentioned above such as poly ethylene poly propylene poly butene 1 poly 4 methyl pentene 1 polyvinyls e.g. poly vinyl chloride poly vinyl fluoride poly vinylidene chloride poly vinylidine fluoride poly vinyl alcohol poly vinyl esters such as poly vinyl acetate and poly vinyl propionate poly vinyl pyridines poly vinylpyrrolidones poly vinyl ethers poly vinyl ketones poly vinyl aldehydes such as poly vinyl formal and poly vinylbutyral poly vinyl amides poly vinyl amines poly vinylurethanes poly vinyl ureas poly vinyl phosphates and poly vinyl sulfates polyallyls poly benzobenzimidazole polyhydrazides polyoxadiazoles polyvinyl triazoles poly benimidazole polycarbodiimides polyphosphazines cyclic olefic polymers and its copolymers such as TOPAS Advanced Polymer s TOPAS Mitsui Chemical s APEL Japan Synthetic Rubber s ARTON Zeon Chemical s Zeonex and Zeoner and its modified polymers microporous polymers and interpolymers including block interpolymers containing repeating units from the above such as terpolymers of acrylonitrile vinyl bromide sodium salt of para sulfophenylmethallyl ethers and grafts and blends containing any of the foregoing. Typical substituents providing substituted polymers include halogens such as fluorine chlorine and bromine hydroxyl groups lower alkyl groups lower alkoxy groups monocyclic aryl lower acryl groups and the like.

Some preferred polymers such as the continuous blend polymer matrix include but are not limited to polysulfones sulfonated polysulfones polyethersulfones PESs sulfonated PESs polyethers polyetherimides such as Ultem or Ultem 1000 cellulosic polymers such as cellulose acetate and cellulose triacetate polyamides polyimides such as Matrimid poly 3 3 4 4 benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride pyromellitic dianhydride 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl 4 4 methylene dianiline poly BTDA PMDA TMMDA poly 3 3 4 4 benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride pyromelliticdianhydride 4 4 oxydiphthalicanhydride 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl 4 4 methylene dianiline poly BTDA PMDA ODPA TMMDA poly 3 3 4 4 diphenylsulfone tetracarboxylicdianhydride 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl 4 4 methylene dianiline poly DSDA TMMDA poly 3 3 4 4 benZophenone tetrocarboxylicdianhydride 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl 4 4 methylene dianiline poly DSDA PMDS TMMDA poly 2 2 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenyl hexafluoropropane dianhydride 1 3 phenylenediamine poly 6FDA m PDA poly 2 2 bis 3 4 dicarboxyphenyl hexa uoropropane dianhydride 1 3 phenylenediamine 3 5 diaminobenzoic acid poly 6FDA m PDA DABA P84 or P84HT polyamide imides polyketones polyether ketones and microporous polymers.

The most preferred polymers of the polymer matrix include but are not limited to polyethersulfones polyimides such as Matrimid P84 and poly 3 3 4 4 diphenylsulfone tetracarboxylic dianhydride 3 3 5 5 tetramethyl 4 4 methylene dianiline polyetherimides such as Ultem polysulfones cellulose acetate cellulose triacetate poly vinyl alcohol s and microporous polymers.

The loading of the functionalized MOF fillers in the MMM can be varied by a broad range from less than 1 to 50 by weight. The weight of surface functionalized MOF added to the polymer matrix is expressed as a percent of the total weight of the polymer and MOF. For example 40 wt of MOF dope was prepared by mixing 1.33 g of MOF and 2 g of polymer in the chloroform solvent.

Preparation of surface functionalized MOFs and MMMs incorporating them is generally described to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention. The selected MOF is synthesized or purchased from a vender. A representative MOF is UiO 66 NH. Functionalization of the MOF is accomplished by addition of an organic pendant such as phenylacetyl chloride. The surface functionalized MOF is then dispersed throughout an appropriate solvent and a polymer such as Matrimid 5218 available from Huntsman Chemical is added in portions. A film is then cast by addition of the loaded solution on glass plate with a casting knife in a glove bag. The solvent is then evaporated away slowly and the resulting MMM is dried and annealed. The MMM may then be utilized for gas separation operations such as removal of CO2 from a flue gas stream.

MMMs were developed using neat and surface functionalized UiO 66 NHas the dispersed phase and Matrimid as the polymer matrix. Matrimid was selected as the polymer for this study because it is a well characterized glassy polymer and incorporation of fillers into such glassy polymers like Matrimid has proven difficult. Four MOFs having polar non polar or aromatic surface functional groups were compared to demonstrate the effectiveness of the invention neat UiO 66 NH I aromatic modified I I aliphatic C modified I I and acid modified I I . UiO 66 NHwas chosen as the base MOF filler because the Lewis basic amino groups promote selective adsorption of COand can serve as open reaction sites for addition of a pendant.

Within the demonstration it was expected interaction between the MOF and polymer would be most highly optimized with the aromatic modified I I serving as the pendant functional unit. The steric and bonding characteristic of the moiety would most favorably interact with the Matrimid through hydrogen bonding and stacking.

For preparation of the neat Matrimid dense membrane Matrimid was dried in a vacuum oven at 120 C. overnight. Next a dope solution was formed by dissolving the Matrimid in chloroform followed by mixing on a roller mixer. Then the dope was kept stationary overnight to remove any retained gas bubbles. Prior to casting a glove bag was purged with Nto remove any humidity and was saturated with chloroform to slow the rate of solvent evaporation from the membrane. Matrimid dense membranes were cast onto a glass plate in the glove bag using a casting knife. The resulting membrane was kept for 2 days in the glove bag as the chloroform evaporated slowly from the membrane. The membrane was dried at 100 C. overnight followed by annealing at 225 C. in a vacuum oven for 2 hours. Finally the membrane was slowly cooled to room temperature.

Stock solutions of ZrCl 0.1 M 2 aminoterephthalic acid 0.1 M and HCl conc. 1 M in DMF were first prepared. To a 40 ml vial were added 10 mL ZrCl 1 mmol 20 mL 2 aminoterephthalic acid 2 mmol and 3 mL HCl 3 mmol . The vial was capped and heated in a 120 C. oven for 24 hours. Yellow microcrystalline product was centrifuged 5 min 1000 rpm and washed first with DMF 3X and then with CHCl 3X . The product was then dried in a 130 C. oven 24 h collected and stored in a capped vial and used for subsequent functionalization steps without further purification.

I 2.0 g 0.63 mmol was suspended in CHCl 20 mL in a 40 mL vial. While stirring phenylacetyl chloride 1.5 mL 11.4 mmol and triethylamine 1.4 mL 10 mmol were added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature 16 h . The yellow product was centrifuged 5 min 1000 rpm washed with chloroform 3X and dried in a 130 C. oven 16 h . The product was stored in a capped vial.

I 2.0 g 0.63 mmol was suspended in CHCl 20 mL in a 40 mL vial. While stirring decanoyl chloride 2.4 mL 11.4 mmol and triethylamine 1.4 mL 10 mmol were added and the resulting mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature 16 h . The yellow product was centrifuged 5 min 1000 rpm washed with CHCl 3X and dried in a 130 C. oven 16 h . The product was stored in a capped vial.

I 2.0 g 0.64 mmol was placed in dry DMF 20 mL with 3 molecular sieves 5 10 sieves dried for 2 d at 200 C. and then evacuated prior to use . While stirring succinic anhydride 2.0 g 19.9 mmol was added and the mixture was heated in a 60 C. oil bath 16 h . The yellow product was centrifuged 5 min 1000 rpm washed with DMF 3X washed with CHCl 3X and then dried in a 130 C. oven 16 h . The product was stored in a capped vial.

For preparation of the MMMs both the Matrimid and MOF were dried in a vacuum oven at 120 C. overnight. Preparation of a dope solution followed the standard priming technique in which the MOF particles were first dispersed in chloroform solvent using an ultrasonication water bath for 2 hours to obtain a homogenous dispersion. Next the MOF crystals were primed by adding 30 of the total Matrimid to the MOF chloroform solution followed by roller mixing and sonication for another 2 hours. The remaining Matrimid polymer was added in two steps 30 and 40 followed by stirring and sonication after each addition. The mixed matrix membranes were formed by casting the mixed matrix dope as discussed above for the neat Matrimid membranes.

The MOF loading was controlled by changing the mass ratio of MOF to Matrimid in the mixed matrix dope solution. MMMs with low 12 wt medium 23 wt and high 40 wt loadings of MOF were fabricated using I MMM I and I MMM I . MMMs were also prepared using 23 wt I MMM I and 23 wt I MMM I to study the effect of different surface functionalizations on the Matrimid MOF filler adhesion and the gas separation performance. The loadings represented here 12 wt 23 wt and 40 wt correspond to volume percentages of approximately 11 22 and 38 respectively.

The base and functionalized MOFs and the MMMs incorporating them where thoroughly characterized. Powder X Ray diffraction PXRD patterns of I before and after functionalization are in good agreement with the simulated XRD pattern confirming formation of the pure phase crystalline I and as I I and Iwere also consistent with the pattern of I confirming that the crystallinity was maintained even after functionalization. SEM images of each of the MOF analogues were used to determine the average particle size. The average particle size of all these MOF analogues was 200 nm. An image of Iparticles is shown in as an example no changes in the particle morphology were observed after the modification.

The composition of I I and Iwas determined by collecting XPS spectra of as prepared and crushed samples and H NMR spectra for digested MOF samples H NMR was used to determine the ratio between unfunctionalized and functionalized ligand for I I and I. The percentage of functionalized ligands was found to be 5 for I 2 for I and 32 for I. It is expected that for Iand I the phenyl substituents and Cchains are located on the external surface of the MOF particles because functionalization at internal amino sites would be significantly limited by diffusion of the large phenyl and Creactants. XPS analysis of the functionalized MOFs before and after crushing also indicated that the pendant was likely predominantly on the external surface of the MOF particles. The observed BET surface areas for Iand Iare similar to that for I which is consistent with this interpretation. It is noted from the results that the SA groups react significantly with internal amino sites because 32 of the ligands are functionalized with SA. SA is smaller than phenylacyl chloride and decanoyl chloride and its reaction with the internal amino groups would not be nearly as diffusion limited. The BET surface area for Iis significantly lower than I which again is consistent with the observed degree of functionalization.

Pure gas COand Npermeation measurements of neat Matrimid and the MMMs were completed using an isochoric permeation system at room temperature and 20 psia pressure. The results are presented in .

The transport properties for the MMMs with the Iand Ifunctionalized MOFs are also shown in . The IMMMs showed only slight improvement in selectivity over pure Matrimid while Ishowed a decrease in selectivity. These membranes were also the most brittle. The decreased performance was predicted by examining the structure of Matrimid which contains aromatic and imide groups. The pendants SA polar C non polar alkyl were not expected to interact well with the functional groups in the Matrimid polymer. Conversely for NH and PA surface functionalized MOFs the aromatic groups present in the polymer were expected to interact favorably through stacking with the aromatic ring of the PA group and the imide groups in the polymer were expected to interact favorably with the NHgroups and amide linkages through hydrogen bonding. Furthermore since all four MOF analogues have nearly identical internal structure and functionality and only differ by the pendant at the surface it is shown that simply changing the pendant can significantly affect whether the polymer filler interface is truly detect free.

The invention disclosed is particularly useful for the fabrication of mixed matrix membranes for use in separation of gas mixtures. In certain embodiments a metal organic framework is surface functionalized with an organic pendant. Subsequently the surface functionalized metal organic framework is incorporated into a mixed matrix membrane.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

