---

title: Collaborative production asset management
abstract: In an approach, a method of spotting music for a motion picture comprises: receiving music editor (MXE) cue related data defining a plurality of cues each having a start timecode value and an end timecode value; based on the MXE data, creating and storing an MXE timecode path, a composer (CMP) timecode path, and a cue sheet timecode path; copying one or more of the MXE cue related data to CMP cues in the CMP timecode path in a CMP spotting dataset; receiving one or more changes to the CMP cues without also modifying the MXE cue related data; applying an editing lock to the CMP cues; auto-populating the CMP cues to cue sheet cues in the cue sheet timecode path; receiving one or more changes to the cue sheet cues without also modifying the CMP cues; finalizing and distributing a cue sheet based on the cue sheet cues; wherein the method is performed by one or more special-purpose computing devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09070415&OS=09070415&RS=09070415
owner: QWIRE HOLDING, LLC
number: 09070415
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140718
---
The present application claims the benefit as a Continuation of application Ser. No. 13 931 532 filed Jun. 28 2013 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a Continuation of application Ser. No. 13 896 273 filed May 16 2013 and as a Continuation of international application PCT US13 41469 filed May 16 2013 which both claim benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of priority to provisional application 61 648 035 filed May 16 2012 the entire contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as though fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure generally relates to obtaining during processes of producing an audiovisual program production related data from a plurality of separate parties who are involved in the production authoritatively binding the production related data to timecode data of the audiovisual program and providing data output that integrates the production related data in ways that have been previously unavailable. The present disclosure relates more specifically to computer based techniques supporting processes involved in managing data and assets related to music original and licensed for audiovisual programs.

Every film and television show presents numerous opportunities for commerce. For example a viewer watching his her favorite show may be interested in purchasing music from the episode being viewed before the show has even ended. As another example a viewer may want to buy a pair of shoes or other product that a character is wearing in a particular scene. In yet another example a viewer may be interested in staying at a hotel where a certain scene was filmed.

Although many exciting consumer devices and applications are currently being introduced to enable these types of transactions they all lack the most important ingredient specific and detailed information about the program and its elements. In order for these transactional engines to operate they need accurate data as fuel.

An abundant wealth of information is produced during the making of a TV show or film. Composers music editors music supervisors and picture editors generate essential information about the music created or licensed for a TV show or film. The location manager must track each location where the filming takes place costume designers have detailed information about each piece of clothing and picture editors know precisely where each of these elements appears in the program. Yet much of this detail rich data is discarded during the process of creating the show or film. What does survive is often stored in isolated and poorly designed systems or worse on paper where the critical information is notoriously difficult to retrieve and easily lost.

In the description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Techniques are provided for obtaining during processes of producing an audiovisual program production related data from a plurality of separate parties who are involved in the production authoritatively binding the production related data to timecode data of the audiovisual program and providing data output that integrates the production related data in ways that have been previously unavailable. Using these techniques a data processing system can integrate data from various parties who are typically associated with different companies that do not ordinarily share production related data. Further production related abstract labels such as acts scenes and shots or other values that relate to other production trades may be bound to specific timecode points in the audiovisual program and used to generate output such as reports that include production related data from a plurality of parties who typically do not share such data in ordinary production processes.

Techniques are provided for collaborative product asset management. In an embodiment a cloud based data processing platform provides data and media management features to improve workflow from inception to delivery for people involved in selecting creating recording manipulating placing producing managing licensing delivering and administering music for film and television programs or any medium where music accompanies a moving image . By creating value for everyone connected to the production including production studios music publishers performance rights organizations PROs and record labels the platform helps streamline the collection and management of music rights enabling quicker and more accurate royalty payments.

For purposes of illustrating clear examples certain description herein refer to specific roles such as MXE and CMP but in other embodiments different persons not actually having those roles may perform the specified steps. Further the responsibilities and features associated with the roles may in other embodiments be merged or overlapped with other roles in many various combinations.

In some cases for convenience specific examples of audiovisual programs will be described in reference to particular features. In such cases the features apply to audiovisual programs generally in addition to the specific examples provided. In this context audiovisual programs includes television film movies video games steaming media commercials and all other forms of visual media.

Every film and television show utilizes music from Hollywood blockbusters to low budget reality TV series. Billions are paid annually in licensing fees and royalties for this music. Yet the current tools for managing this process tend to be antiquated disjointed labor intensive and manual. This creates redundant work for many individuals and business entities involved and results in lost and delayed revenue for the major production studios and for composers music publishers and record labels. It can even lead to costly litigation due to inefficiencies in tracking music rights.

In an embodiment the platform provides a comprehensive tool for tracking music rights by embracing the entire audiovisual program ecosystem. For example by collecting information from the content creators themselves during production rather than hastily assembling the information after the audiovisual program has been fully completed from many scattered and hard to access sources. As a result the platform is able to collect the highest quality and most accurate information for a television film production directly from the users responsible for coordinating that content in the production. The platform provides content creators with a wide array of user specific workflow improvement tools. For example a utility to convert scenes into music cues can be provided. Further each user may be provided with permissions and tools corresponding to their specific job composer music supervisor music editor wardrobe manager assistants etc. and the ability to share information needed to coordinate their efforts. The platform thus encourages collaboration and sharing of jointly used data while using secure encryption or other security techniques to keep each user s sensitive information safe. Thus the platform encourages the content creators to take advantage of its services by providing convenient tools to assist in the production and as a result collects valuable music scoring and product placement information. This information can then be used for other purposes such as obtaining or tracking rights to the music paying royalties or providing advertisers with accurate timings for when certain music tracks original or licensed or products appear in the production.

The information collected by the platform s users can be used to enable impulse purchases consumer purchases made as a direct result of watching a TV show or film. One example is music. Studies have shown that 49 of consumers discover music through television yet there is currently no easy way for consumers to instantly identify a specific song in a TV show and purchase it. Since users are far more likely to purchase music at the moment of impulse the opportunities to boost music sales are significant. For example the music rights information captured from the various users and the music media itself via the platform during the creation of the TV show film may be provided to advertisers. The advertisers are then able to provide targeted advertisements to consumers watching the production enabling them to purchase tracks associated with a scene they are currently viewing or had previously viewed. In some embodiments the target advertisements may also be extended into non music purchases as well such as clothes vehicles hotel stays or other products or services depicted in the production. For example a costume manager may use the platform to coordinate which scene a character will be wearing a particular jacket. That information may then be exported to advertisers who can provide advertising associated with those scenes to offer users the opportunity to purchase the jacket while the impulse is still fresh in their minds.

In an embodiment a method of spotting music for a motion picture comprises receiving music editor MXE cue related data defining a plurality of cues each having a start timecode value and an end timecode value based on the MXE data creating and storing an MXE timecode path a composer CMP timecode path and a cue sheet timecode path copying one or more of the MXE cue related data to CMP cues in the CMP timecode path in a CMP spotting dataset receiving one or more changes to the CMP cues without also modifying the MXE cue related data applying an editing lock to the CMP cues auto populating the CMP cues to cue sheet cues in the cue sheet timecode path receiving one or more changes to the cue sheet cues without also modifying the CMP cues finalizing and distributing a cue sheet based on the cue sheet cues wherein the method is performed by one or more special purpose computing devices.

In an embodiment a method of licensing music for a motion picture comprises receiving music related data defining a plurality of music events each having a start timecode value and an end timecode value wherein the music related data is one or more of MXE data CMP data or VDE data based on the music related data creating and storing an MSP timecode path based on the MSP timecode path displaying information related to the music events receiving MSP user input defining one or more request letter templates generating one or more request letters based on the one or more request letter templates wherein the one or more request letters contain at least a portion of the information related to the music events sending the one or more request letters to one or more recipients wherein the method is performed by one or more special purpose computing devices.

Embodiments may be implemented in a variety of distributed systems or systems that provide high availability. An example is Qwire commercially available from Qwire Holdings LLC Irvington N.Y. which provides a cloud based platform and collaborative editing tools for managing cue scene and other information related to an audiovisual production.

Series A collection of TV episodes under a singular title often airing one week apart from one another. Examples include Seinfeld and 24 . Series are broken down into seasons reflecting a package of shows bought by a distributor. A single season of a series can contain a widely different number of episodes. For example some seasons may contain as few as 4 5 episodes and as many as 30 40 or more.

Act For TV episodes acts are defined as where commercial breaks appear. Act 0 refers to anything prior to the opening titles. Acts contain scenes. Scenes contain music cues. Music cues may span more than one scene. In the context of films the reels are often used in place of acts.

Scene Within a given production scene refers to one or more locations in which a unit of dramatic action occurs. Scenes have scene numbers scene locations and scene descriptions. A scene can be either interior INT or exterior EXT . For example a scene appearing on a continuity report might read EXT Night Parking Lot with the description Bob s van pulls up and 3 gunmen get out. An altercation with police ensues .

Cue A single piece of music occurring over a particular time range in the episode either within a specific scene or bridging 2 or more scenes. Cues refer to either an original composition or a licensed piece of existing music. Cues can be assigned both numbers and names. In some contexts the cue numbers often follow the act number or reel number in the naming schema with an m in between standing for music. For example 3m4 means act 3 cue 4.

Starts Another name for cues often refers to the number of cues in a given act or scene. For example Act 3 may have 12 starts meaning 12 cues .

Timecode The timing convention used to mark each frame of a production with a number representing time such as by hours minutes seconds and frames e.g. 1 05 23 11.

Offset When timecode values need to be adjusted to accommodate a change in the production s video edit. For example scenes may be shortened or extended resulting in other scenes needing to be moved forward or back in time. Thus there may be an updated edit of an episode where everything after act 3 scene 4 needs to be moved forward by 16 seconds and 23 frames.

Temp Stands for temporary music. Temp is often inserted by the video editor during the video editing process to be replaced later with a combination of original score by the composer and licensed pre existing music.

Spotting or Spot The process of viewing a production s video and deciding where music needs to be. Cues are created during spotting and each cue is given a start timecode and an end timecode.

Cue Sheet A report required by the PROs in order to pay royalties to its composer and publisher members. The report often contains cue numbers cue titles cue lengths composers and publishers who wrote and own the cue and their respective percentage splits. In TV each episode generally requires a corresponding cue sheet. In film only one cue sheet is typically provided for the whole film.

Publishers Refers to entities that own the rights to a song or track s composition but not necessarily the recording of the track .

Master Owners Refers to entities that own the recording of a particular song but not necessarily the composition of said song .

Assignee A person who composes original music or otherwise creates music via editing or some other process for a given series or episode.

Composer A member of the production team whose responsibilities typically go beyond composing original music and may include matching assignees to cues reviewing an assignees progress revising spotting managing a music budget hiring musicians orchestrating music and other managerial tasks for a series or episode.

Music Editor A member of the production team whose responsibilities typically include performing the initial spotting and finalizing the cue sheet. His duties may also include helping to choose temp music keeping track of critical data during live recording sessions and assembling all of the final music assets for delivery.

Music Supervisor A member of the production team whose responsibilities typically include determining those cues which require licenses and negotiating with licensors. The music supervisor may also recommend licensable songs to be used in a production.

Video Editor A member of the production team whose responsibilities typically include combining and assembling raw footage into scenes to tell a story. In some cases the role of the video editor is also referred to as picture editor since the VDE is not necessarily limited to editing video and can edit still pictures as well.

Option Cell a widget that pertains to a particular piece of pre existing music in consideration for licensing. The option cell is used by the MSP to bring up fields pertaining to a particular song and track its licensing progress.

Hybrid Layout a composer layout where both the CMP and MXE timings and notes are conveniently presented simultaneously for easy comparison and copying.

CueLinks a unique tool that allows certain descriptors icons and colors to be attached to cues based on story location character and other user defined tags.

In an embodiment client represent software being hosted on a host computing device not depicted . For example desktop or mobile computing devices may execute instructions that perform the functions attributed to the client . As another example client may represent a mobile application executing on a smartphone. In other embodiments client may themselves represent host computing devices containing hardware components that perform the aforementioned functions. In an embodiment client represent computing devices such as the computing devices described below in the section titled Hardware Overview . The client provides user interfaces or layouts to assist users to in collaboratively developing TV film productions. In addition the client collects information from the users regarding the production which is then sent over network to server or to other external destinations. In some embodiments the client is a thin client designed to run the user interfaces but is otherwise configured to perform minimal processing and instead delegate tasks such as retrieving and analyzing information to the server .

In an embodiment network represents any combination of one or more local networks wide area networks internetworks or service provider networks. Data exchanged over network may be transferred using any number of network layer protocols transportation layer protocols and or application layer protocols. In some embodiments network represents one or more interconnected internetworks such as the public internet.

In an embodiment server represents software being hosted on a server computing device not depicted . For example the server may be executing within a data center or a cloud storage service system. In another embodiment server represents a host server containing hardware components for performing the functions attributed to the server . In yet another embodiment server represents a computing device such as the computing device described below in the section titled Hardware Overview . The server collects information regarding a TV film production from users via the client . The server then uses the collected information to analyze the information and share certain information between different users while maintaining the security of less public information. In addition the server may use the information provided by the client to produce specialized reports and template emails to assist the users of the client with tasks related to TV film production.

For the purpose of convenience the term client without a particular reference numeral will refer to any of client or . Furthermore the term production management system refers to the collection of client server and database . Thus if the production management system is described as performing a task the task may be performed by any or all of the components comprising the production management system depending on the embodiment. Thus for example if the production management system is described as calculating total expenses for a production the step of calculating may be performed by the client in one embodiment the server in another embodiment or a combination of both in yet another embodiment.

In this arrangement embodiments provide an integrated data collection system that is configured to receive data values directly from production personnel as production tasks are performed without the need for personnel to record data on paper sheets for re entry by other staff at another time. Consequently important data relating to production tasks becomes available in the database far earlier in the production process and normally before the airdate or release date of the production. As a specific benefit music cue sheets may be produced on or before the air date or a show or the release of a film typically weeks or months earlier than with prior approaches and may include data that has been previously unavailable such as start and stop times of each cue. The early availability of this data enables technical processes that have not been previously possible as detailed in subsequent sections such as customization of advertisements in a television program based on the substantive content of a scene or other scene detail and offering sales of products including music or other products based upon the specific placement of the products at a particular start and end time in the program the identity of performers in that scene at that particular start time and end time and other data.

Embodiments further enhance the operating efficiency of a networked computer system by permitting communication of data among various parties to a production who are in independent organizations that do not normally share data orally or via paper processes.

Embodiments can provide frame based accurate metadata about a production that is authoritatively tied to the timecode values of the production recording. Metadata may be obtained from production professionals involved in any of music costumes props casting and other trades or professions. The metadata may be obtained during the process of production rather than after the airdate or release and may be supplemented with frame accurate timecode values to produce an authoritative binding of timecode values to production values qualities or abstractions.

The database stores information received by the server for use in various features such as collaborative editing reporting to various users or agencies billing automatic email generation etc. The information may be received from users of the client but in other cases may be automatically obtained from one or more other external data repositories. For example a PRO or PUB may make licensing information and member lists available on an external database which the server can query to extract and transform the information for insertion into the database .

In an embodiment the server includes database software that manages access to the information stored in the database . For example the server may execute software for managing relational or object oriented databases such as SQL MySQL FileMaker etc. or software custom designed in languages such as C Ruby on Rails Java Visual Basic etc. The server may also implement some functions in web based languages such as HTML and PHP for communicating with the client. In other embodiments the tasks performed by the server may be shared or divided among multiple specialized servers such as a server for authenticating the client a server for managing the database a server for communicating information to the client etc.

For the purpose of illustrating clear examples the database will be assumed to be a relational database. However in other embodiments the database may also be an object oriented database an object relational database or other type of database.

In an embodiment the database includes a relationship graph that follows an anchor buoy method of connectivity but may use a spider web approach when appropriate. The naming conventions used in the relationship graph on the table occurrences the buoy are to first define what the table occurrence is used for and then to define the master table it references the anchor . For example table Offset CUE means that the table occurrence offset uses the table CUE for its subset of data. Table occurrences are generally used to collect and filter a subset of information.

In an embodiment the information depicted in the relationship graph is organized into tables as follows 

In an embodiment the production management system is designed to let collaborators share data that is common while keeping secure their confidential data. The following is one example of how the users may be grouped and privilege sets defined 

In some embodiments users are divided into various user groups for the production. illustrates an example user group master hierarchy according to an embodiment. As depicted in members falling into different user groups receive different permissions and thus may have access to different sets of tools e.g. layouts and data. For example the user groups may include wardrobe 1assistant director 1AD Hair Makeup Prop Master etc. The users in user groups may extend beyond those individuals which are specifically involved in music video and can provide frame accurate metadata and time stamping for virtually any kind of product that may eventually be involved in the production process.

In some embodiments versioning and simultaneous managing of multiple picture video edits in the production management system as well as layouts can be linked to an identifier such as an episode number. In the case of a film or a single episode TV production not a series the production may be divided into various stages with edits associated with them e.g. rough cut director s cut locked cut etc . In an embodiment each tool and layout provided by the production management system supports versioning and archiving with the ability for a user e.g. an administrator to switch between versions. For example when timecode values are used the timecode values can be version aware and will update or change when the production management system switches from version to version. Similarly scene orders and scene inclusion itself may be different as versions change and the production management system adapts accordingly. The same also holds for cue order and inclusion. The versions may be explicitly set by the user e.g. via a widget or may be set automatically such as by an automatic backup tool that records a new version every set period of time or after specified events.

In some embodiments each user group has its own home page layout and custom navigation. Each group adheres to a permissions schema whereby there is a single group admin role and multiple group users all flowing down from the Master Admin for the production management system. A Master Admin assigns the various group admins a group admin assigns roles and permissions for members of that group.

In an embodiment throughout the production management system there are one or more communication tools that provide users various ways to communicate among one another a instant message application chat window review notes auto email etc . In some cases the communication tools will be context aware keeping track of which scenes cues etc. has focus who gave a particular note or posted a particular comment etc. The production management system may also utilize time stamping and or archival of communications as needed.

In an embodiment the client follows a visual design paradigm whereby layouts are used to limit the information provided to a user based on the job or task that the user needs to perform. For example the layout may be based on the user s level of permission or on the user s job CMP MSP MXE etc. . For clarity the user interacting with a layout may be described with reference to the role to which the layout caters in practice. For example the MSP worksheet layout may be described as being utilized by the MSP. However the layouts are not necessarily restricted to being used by any particular user.

Keeping the layouts relatively free of superfluous data helps keep the user interface cleaner and easier to read. Furthermore data descriptions can be visually distinguished from the data itself e.g. by shading or coloring to make it easier for the user to read the data provided by the layouts. The layouts may also include various widgets such as dropdown menus to help the user to enter information when a select number of valid choices can be entered for a given field.

In an embodiment the production management system aids users by automatically entering redundant information and default values which the user can then use as a starting point to begin the editing process. In some embodiments the production management system follows a data entry paradigm whereby once data is entered e.g. for a particular episode that data remains fixed even if the default values for that data is later modified.

The title information displays information regarding the production such as the series title and an icon or image identifying the series. However in some embodiments the title information may also display the name of the layout currently being shown in the layout content area .

In an embodiment the episode widgets and series widgets can be selected by the user to cause the client to present a corresponding layout in the layout content area . For example the episode widgets may provide access to layouts pertaining to a particular episode whereas series widgets may provide access to layouts pertaining to the series generally. As the user selects a new widget the client updates the layout content area to display the layout associated with the newly selected widget. In some embodiments the user may be presented with a particular layout by default and may then navigate via the episode widgets and series widgets to a new layout. In some embodiments the client provides the user with an option to modify which layout is shown by default.

The layout widgets contain widgets which control functionality related to the currently selected layout such as uploading exporting data adding deleting episodes etc. Since the layout widgets are specific to a given layout the layout widgets may be updated by the client depending on the layout selected by the user. In some cases the selected layout may not have any functionality linked to the layout widgets . In such cases the client may display the layout widgets as blank or may not display the layout widgets at all.

In some embodiments the layout widgets episode widgets and series widgets form a banner that is displayed at the top of the user interface regardless of the layout currently selected for display in the layout content area . Thus the banner serves as a tool for the user to navigate the various displays and options provided by the production management system.

In some embodiments the production management system associates certain users or layouts with a particular color. For example the layouts for the MXE may be displayed as tinted one color and the layouts for the CMP may be tinted another color. As a result the color provides a quick visual marker to help the user understand where they are when navigating the layouts of the production management system. Furthermore data entered by a user may be displayed with the user s associated color when imported into another user s layout. As a result users can intuitively grasp the source of the data without further inquiry.

In an embodiment the series setup layout is where the default values that the client uses to automatically populate other layouts are set. For example the data filled out in the series setup layout may be used to fill in default values for the fields in episode specific layouts. In some embodiments editing a default value field within the series setup layout changes the defaults for any newly created episodes but does not change the fields for episodes which have already been created. In addition information that is automatically populated into layouts as defaults act as a starting point for users working on the episode which may be customized as needed.

In an embodiment when a user enters information into the fields of the series setup layout the client sends that information to the server for storage in the database . Thus when auto populating fields the client can contact the server to retrieve the information stored in the database . In some embodiments the process of saving the information to the database may occur dynamically after each field has been entered. However in other embodiments the process may be batched such as by saving entered information to the database every set period of time or in response to a user selecting an option to save the information. Although the aforementioned saving techniques are described in reference to series setup layout the saving techniques are applicable to information entered into any layout described herein.

In some embodiments the episode setup layout and potentially other episode specific layouts includes an episode closing widget for closing reopening an episode. The collaborative nature of the production management system creates the potential for one user to modify information for an episode after another user has already assumed that the information has been finalized. As a result in some embodiments the production management system offers a safeguard to protect the integrity of the information. Thus the episode closing widget locks users from being able to change the fields of closed episodes and also causes the production management system to generate one or more reports or notifications. In some embodiments the episode closing widget is restricted to only be accessible the CMP.

In an embodiment the tabs provide the user with the option of accessing one or more of the following sets of fields 

In an embodiment the episode setup layout is available to both the MXE and the CMP but provides different functionality for each role. For example the episode closing widget may be reserved for the CMP and not available on the MXE s version of the episode setup layout . Furthermore the MXE s version may be restricted from modifying particular fields in the episode setup layout or may be restricted from making modifications altogether read only .

Spotting is the process of viewing a production and determining where music needs to be included. Timecode refers to a stamp that marks each frame of video with a number representing a point in time such as hours minutes seconds and frames hh mm ss ff .

In an embodiment the spotting process begins with the VDE creating a continuity report specifying the scenes that will be included in the episode. In some cases the VDE may indicate temporary music at scenes and times where the CMP MXE should include music. The continuity report is then provided to the MXE who performs the initial spotting by numbering and naming cues along with start and end timecode values. Data as recorded in the continuity layout throughout the editing process then flows to the spotting layout to populate fields in the spotting notes. The MXE provides the initial spotting notes to the CMP who reviews and edits the MXE s spotting notes. During the closing of an episode the MXE performs a final editing revision to the CMP s revised spotting notes to reflect how the cues actually appear in the final production. This final spotting information can then be used by the production management system to generate cue sheets and other reports.

When numbering the cues the production management system allows for the traditional cue numbering industry standard whereby 2m3 means act 2 scene 3 the m stands for music . For sorting purposes the production management system assigns a unique calculated value to each cue whose calculation is based on the traditional numbering schema. This value is typically hidden from the user. For example the production management system may associate the cue 1m4 with 104.052 specifying a unique cue in act 1 scene 4. In this way the production management system can sort cues based on either creation order or numerical order by act scene. In some embodiments the cue numbering may be calculated differently depending on the type of video production.

In an embodiment once the MXE is finished with spotting the MXE can select an option which auto informs e.g. via email both the CMP and the MSP and attaches forms where appropriate so that both parties may begin their respective work on the production. Notifications or informing as described herein may occur via email instant messaging or via software implemented communication processes. Further when a specific example of an electronic communication mechanism is described in relation to a feature e.g. email the feature can also utilize other electronic communication mechanisms in other embodiments.

In an embodiment the production management system incorporates a timecode calculator. Once timecode start and end times are entered the production management system automatically calculates the cue length based on the difference between the start time and the end time. However although a production may have one primary set of timecodes timecode path for the cues of a TV episode film the production management system may maintain separate but related timecode paths for different users or functions. For example the production management system may maintain a timecode path for the MXE a timecode path for the CMP and a timecode path for the cue sheet. The different timecode paths may be edited independently of one another but the default values for each path are based on the path that preceded it. For example the default CMP timecode path may be based on the MXE timecode path and the default cue sheet timecode path may be based on the CMP timecode path.

In practice the independent timecode paths allow the MXE to enter spotting timecode information for cues in the MXE spotting layout with the CMP having the option to copy some or all of those cue timecodes into the CMP spotting layout. The CMP can then change the values as needed without changing the MXE s original values. The CMP further has the option of sending the new values back to the MXE. Since the MXE often works for the CMP the power to change values and choose if the MXE layout should include those revised values rests with the CMP. Once the CMP is satisfied with the spotting notes the CMP can lock the spotting which means that the MXE can no longer alter the spotting data for the episode in the MXE spotting layout. An indicator on the MXE layout specifies when spotting is locked and if the MXE attempts to make a change the client displays a warning dialog which informs the MXE that the CMP must be contacted to unlock spotting before changes can be made.

When it comes time to finalize the cue sheet at the end of a production that job often falls back to the MXE. In an embodiment the cue sheet timecode is auto populated by the CMP s timecode path. The production management system then allows the MXE to make alterations to the timecode values during the final mix of a production to reflect the cues which actually made it into the final mix. In practice the CMP is often not aware of these last minute changes performed to the cue sheet timecode values. However the MXE s editing does not affect the CMP s timecode path or the MXE s original timecode path. As a result the MXE s and CMP s timecode paths remain stored in the production management system for archival purposes in case review of those paths is needed at a later time. As a result the production management system maintains data related to the MXE s original spotting the CMP s revision to the spotting and the final spotting that appears on the cue sheet for the production.

The spotting layout contains timing information for the cues of a production. In an embodiment the cues are displayed with a scroll bar or other widget that can be selected by the user to scroll through the cues. The spotting layout also includes a cue summary area where the client provides summary information totals and data associated with the cues defined in the spotting layout . In an embodiment the cue information area contains data pertaining to the cues such as the cue numbers cue names start end notes uses information vocal information provided by and existing or created dropdowns etc. The timecode information area contains the start time end time length and use attributes e.g. underscore song underscore tracked Source Source On Camera Song Main Title End Credits Logo etc. related to a cue.

In an embodiment both the CMP and MXE or user s with appropriate permissions have access to the spotting layout . However the options available to each user and the functionality of the spotting layout may differ depending on the user s role. For example the CMP version of the spotting layout may contain a spot locking widget and an episode closing widget that may not be available to the MXE version of the spotting layout . The spot locking widget can be selected by the CMP to lock or unlock the spotting of the current episode. The episode closing widget can be selected by the CMP to close or reopen the current episode.

In an embodiment when values in the cue information area are modified by the CMP the changes are automatically propagated to the MXE s version of the spotting layout . For example the data stored in the cue information area for both versions of the spotting layout may reference the same CUE table in the database . Thus modifying the fields in the CMP layout automatically causes the MXE s version to incorporate the same values for those fields. However the information stored in the timecode information area is maintained separately for both the CMP and the MXE. For example the fields of the timecode information area for each user may be stored in a separate table in the database . Thus modifying the fields in the timecode information area in one user s layout does not automatically affect the data displayed by the other user s layout. Similarly the data contained in the note information area may be maintained separately for each user.

In an embodiment when the CMP initially accesses the spotting layout for an episode the client provides blank fields for the cue information area and timecode information area . However the spotting layout provides the CMP with layout widgets for importing exporting data between the CMP s layout and the MXE s layout for non shared information areas such as the timecode information area and the note information area . Thus the CMP can automatically populate the fields in the timecode information area and or cue information area by copying over the corresponding fields from the MXE s version of the spotting layout . The CMP is then free to modify those fields without risk of overwriting the MXE s work. Once the CMP has finished editing the fields the CMP can then use the layout widgets to automatically export the data back to the MXE s version of the spotting layout .

In some cases the MXE and the CMP may be working on the spotting layout concurrently. Thus in an embodiment the production management system implements a conflict resolution mechanism to ensure the integrity of the data. As the CMP and MXE work on their respective layouts and before spotting is locked by the CMP if there exists a difference between the MXE timecode values and or notes and the CMP timecode values and or notes for a particular cue the client provides two arrow widgets to the CMP that appear on the right hand side of the row representing the affected cue. In the event that the CMP selects the first arrow widget the production management system copies the CMPs timecode information area and or cue information area for the cue to the MXE s version of the spotting layout . In the event that the CMP selects the second arrow widget the production management system replace the CMP s timecode information area and or note information area for the cue with the corresponding fields from the MXE s version of the spotting layout .

When the CMP closes an episode via the episode closing widget the fields in the spotting layout are used to auto populate fields for the cue sheet. For example the timecode start time end time and length may be exported automatically to the cue sheet.

In an embodiment the timecode information area includes a vocal checkbox which when checked indicates that the cue has a vocal component. When the vocal checkbox is checked the client displays the cue on the CS along with a By background vocal or VV visual vocal marker . In addition the timecode information area also includes a use attribute dropdown menu that allows a user to designate how the cue will be used. The use attributes and or vocal markers selected by the user are then represented on the cue sheet in the vicinity of the associated cue.

In an embodiment the cue information area includes a drop down list of assignees that may be assigned to the cue. For example the client may include an entry in the drop down list for each assignee defined in the series setup layout . For cases where the cue is an already existing piece of music provided by the MXE or MSP an assignee may not be required and the field can be left blank. As an added visual aid the client displays each assignee in a unique color defined in the series setup layout . In an embodiment the client displays the color as a flag on the cue e.g. on the right or left hand side of the cue s column once an assignee selection has been made. In an embodiment the cue information area also includes a create existing dropdown menu that indicates whether the composer needs to compose an original piece of music or the cue is an already existing track. Furthermore the cue information area includes a provided by dropdown menu that indicates whether a cue needs to be provided by the producer as in the case with licensed music not provided by the composer or if the cue needs to be provided by the composer whether or not it is existing and licensed or originally composed . In an embodiment the client displays any cue that is marked both with create and composer with a border box to provide a visual sign that the CMP needs to supply newly created original music for that cue.

In some embodiments the user can select a cue number to visually flag the cue e.g. with a border box or other visually distinguishable marker for later work or review.

In an embodiment the cue summary area contains information that summarizes the cues. Information included in the cue summary area may include assignee starts music starts per act counts uses subtotals composer provided cues further distilled into create or existing production provided further distilled into create or existing grand total etc.

In an embodiment the client allows a user to select the name of an assignee in the assignee starts section of the cue summary area to automatically generate an email to that assignee with a PDF Portable Document Format of the assignee s cues for that assignee to address. The client automatically populates the subject of the email with the series name episode name and episode number.

In an embodiment the spotting layout provides a Master PDF button or other widget that will generate a PDF containing all cues for a particular episode with the option of displaying assignees for each cue which can then be printed or emailed or otherwise communicated.

In an embodiment the spotting layout provides an option to the user to mark and group cues according to user definable text such as a character name or a reoccurring theme. In another embodiment the client enables users to view the video of the TV film production within the spotting layout . For instance an additional column may be added to the spotting layout containing clips of the production to assist the MXE CMP when performing spotting. Furthermore the client may allow a user to select a given cue and have the video automatically locate to the timecode value of that cue in that specific version of the video or edit.

In an embodiment the client provides alternative views for the spotting layout . For example the client may provide an option or widget that allows the user to view the spotting layout without the cue summary area and or without the cues being displayed in a tab but rather in a standard list format. As another example the client may provide a hybrid layout that contains information from both the CMP and the MXE simultaneously. As a result the user is able to review his her own timings and notes alongside the other user s timing and notes. Particularly for the CMP this option can be useful when choosing which timings and notes should be exported to the MXE s version of the spotting layout . Thus during a spotting session the CMP and MXE can each be at their own workstation with the CMP being able to view a continuously updated cue list from the MXE thus streamlining the spotting process.

In an embodiment the MXE s version of the spotting layout differs from the CMP s version in the following ways 1 The MXE is prevented from viewing and selecting assignees 2 The MXE is prevented from copying data from the CMP or sending data to the CMP this type of transfer has to be initiated by the CMP 3 If the CMP has locked spotting or closed the episode the MXE cannot make further changes in the spotting layout 4 When the MXE has finished providing spotting notes an option is available to notify the CMP via email 5 The MXE has no access to the hybrid layout discussed earlier and 6 The MXE may not have permission to lock or close an episode.

In an embodiment the MXE s version or the CMP s version of the spotting layout includes an option for automatically converting the VDE s continuity report discussed later into an initial set of cues. For example the VDE may indicate in the continuity report one or more places where temporary or placeholder music has been entered. Thus when the MXE selects the option to automatically populate cues the production management system can inspect the continuity layout and add a cue for each place where temporary music has been indicated. The production management system may also automatically fill in default names e.g. the name of the temporary song start time end time cue number and other fields for the automatically generated cue. In some embodiments the production management system may provide the MXE with an option to view a scene assignment layout described more fully in a later section that displays the cues and the scenes indicated by the VDE in the continuity layout side by side. Thus allowing the user to discern which cues are included in which scenes. In some embodiments the VDEs continuity report may specify whether temporary music needs to be scored or licensed and the cues generated from the report may be displayed with a marker indicating the requirements e.g. a cue that needs scoring may be displayed in blue and a cue that needs licensing may be displayed in red . In some embodiments the spotting layout provides an option to the MXE to specify how multiple occurrences of temporary music is to be handled. For example multiple tracks of temporary music can be aggregated into one cue or each can be added as a separate cue. In another embodiment the MXE is provided the option of either performing the temporary music to cue conversion via a batch convert for the entire episode or may specify to perform the conversion on a scene by scene basis.

In some embodiments the spotting layout provides an option to bring up a CueLinks layout that allows certain descriptors icons and colors to be attached to cues based on story location character and other user defined tags. illustrates a CueLinks layout according to an embodiment. In the CueLinks layout there is a main link and many sublinks are definable for each cue. This provides additional context for each music cue that helps the composer create the architecture for the score and also has subsequent value for other purposes for users. For example the CueLinks layout is valuable for archival purposes particularly when production studios want to repurpose music they own at a future time and need a way to search tracks they have created used and or licensed previously. Furthermore the information provided by the CueLinks layout can help give further context to music marketed to consumers and thus may be included in a report directed towards product placement advertisers. For example a consumer could buy music associated with a particular character location or story point. The CueLinks layout can also be displayed in MSP layouts to provide context to licensed music or music to be licensed.

In some embodiments the production management system tracks how close the end of one cue entered into the spotting layout is to the start of another cue. If the start of one cue is within a user defined threshold of the end of another cue the user is informed. For example when sending assignments to assignees each assignee could be notified in emails or reports generated by the production management system of cues that fall within the threshold so they can perform checks on key tempo length of fadeout etc.

In many cases a video edit the cut may change after a composer has finished spotting and has begun his work. With timecode values no longer matching the previous cut the composer has traditionally been forced to manually go through the cut to calculate the new timings. This process would sometimes take hours to complete and even then would provide no guarantee that the timings would not change yet again. As a result the composer might be required to stop his work until such details have been resolved.

In an embodiment the production management system helps to alleviate such issues via the offset layout . For example one or two scenes may be lengthened or shortened. The offset layout includes an offset modifier widget that allows a user to choose a timecode value to add or subtract from the current spotted time. In an embodiment the user inputs the timecode value into the offset modifier widget selects whether to add or subtract from the dropdown menu and selects e.g. highlights the cues for which the offset should apply. In response the client presents the user with a confirmation dialog to confirm the change. If the user chooses to execute the change the production management system adjusts the selected cues timecode by the offset amount.

The cue review layout allows users to keep track of review notes cue approvals and cue completions. In an embodiment the cue review layout maintains an individual set of review notes for each session that is then distributable to individual assignees e.g. composers musicians assistants orchestrators or others defined by the user .

In an embodiment the user selects via a drop box or other widget which assignee s cues to review. In response the client displays that assignee s cues in the cue review layout . The cue review layout indicates how many cues there are for the selected assignee and displays each cue with a number of radio buttons or other widgets that may include for example 

In an embodiment the right side of the cue review layout displays a notes area for the user to submit notes related to a given assignee. The notes area is a continually scrollable field able to hold any number of notes displayed in the order of creation with the most current note at the top.

Within a given cue the user is able to select the notes icon to begin the review process. In response the client switches the radio buttons to indicate notes and places a timestamp in the notes field with the cue number in the vicinity. In addition the client parks the user s curser to the right of the cue number to ready the user to begin typing their review notes.

To approve the notes the user can select a checkmark widget next to the given cue. In response the client adds a cue number and a short sentence or word indicating that the cue has been approved to the notes area for the cue. In addition the client adds a graphic or indicator such as a large green checkmark to the row representing the cue.

Once the user has completed entering notes the user can choose to email the notes to the assignee by selecting a mail icon in the notes area . When the mail icon is selected by the user the client presents a dialog to the user asking if the user wants to send all the notes for the assignee or just the notes that have not previously been sent to the assignee. After obtaining this information from the user the client opens the user s email creates a new message and populates the body of the message with the appropriate notes. In addition the client also adds a timestamp to the top of the notes area indicating when this round of notes has been completed and if the email contained all the notes below or just the most recent notes. In other embodiments the assignee can view the notes via a client of the production management system or can access the notes via external software.

In an embodiment the notes area includes a trash can icon to delete all notes for the assignee and a stamp icon to manually place a timestamp in the notes area at any time.

In an embodiment the billing and expenses layout tracks expenses relating to the production. In some cases the user may have independent software such as Quicken or Quickbooks for managing invoicing and expenses. Thus the expense information may be inserted manually into the billing and expenses layout or may be imported automatically from or exported to an external software program via inter application communication mechanisms such as APIs Application Programming Interfaces .

The billing and expenses layout includes fields for the total budgeted amount for the current episode. The user may enter the total income that is being received for the episode and may also enter some subsets of that amount assignee pay bonus pay and the pay for union musicians e.g. provided by the musician contractor if available . The production management system uses these amounts to perform calculations for the rest of the billing and expenses layout and for generating reports in other layouts.

The billing and expenses layout includes a summary area which displays a summary of expenses entered by the user imported from an external source or calculated by the production management system. In an embodiment the summary area includes the expenses mentioned previously assignee pay bonus pay and union musicians and calculated amounts for non union musicians and other expenses. In addition the summary area may display the total income for the episode minus all expenses. The billing and expenses layout also includes a workflow area for indicating when the episode has been paid and the date of payment should the user need to track that information within the production management system.

In the billing and expenses layout the expenses are divided by category into one or more expense tabs . In an embodiment the expense tabs contain the following categories 

In many cases the MXE is ultimately responsible for preparing the final cue sheet data for the production. The cue sheet layout brings together data from the other layouts and takes away the burdensome and repetitive tasks traditionally associated with cue sheet creation. When the production management system is utilized across all users nearly all of the cue sheet data is already available for auto population when the MXE arrives at the cue sheet layout to finalize the cue sheet. In other embodiments the cue sheet layout provides a populate widget in the layout widgets that auto populates the appropriate fields. For example the production management system may populate fields pertaining to cue numbers names assignees use attributes start and end times cue lengths etc. from the spotting layout . However in other embodiments the fields of the cue sheet layout may be filled in automatically when the CMP closes the episode.

In an embodiment the MXE cannot enter the cue sheet layout until the CMP has closed the episode thus preventing other users from changing the data that is populated into the fields of the cue sheet layout . These timings are further editable by the MXE to reflect any last minute changes to the production.

To populate the writer publisher splits the user selects the populate widget in the layout widgets . In response the production management system runs a detailed script to gather all the relevant data from database . The production management system then correlates the assignee assigned by the CMP for each cue with the assignee information entered into the series setup layout and fills the writer publisher info percentage splits and PROs into the corresponding fields of the cue sheet layout . In the event that an underscore cue has no assignee the production management system looks for the default as defined in the cue sheet tab of the series setup layout . In the event that any percentage splits do not add up to 100 the cue s writer or publisher percentage subtotal is visually distinguished e.g. displayed as red to alert the MXE. The production management system allows each cue to have a virtually unlimited number of writers publishers.

For licensed music provided by the MSP the production management system grabs the writer publisher data from the MSP s layouts described in more detail later . In addition the production management system also changes the cue names entered into the fields of the cue sheet layout to the licensed song names so that proper attribution can be made on the cue sheet.

In an embodiment when the information for certain fields of the cue sheet layout is not available for auto population the production management system leaves the fields blank for manual entry by the MXE.

In an embodiment the cue sheet layout provides a print send widget in the layout widgets that the MXE can select to generate a printed cue sheet or PDF suitable for submission to PROs or other entities requiring the cue sheet such as product placement advertisers.

In an embodiment the cue sheet layout provides an option for the MXE to indicate that the final cue sheet has been submitted. In the event that the CMP tries to reopen a closed episode the CMP is presented with a warning dialog indicating that the cue sheet has already been submitted and any additional changes will required a revised cue sheet to be generated and sent to applicable parties.

In an embodiment the production management system allows for more than one logo default to be entered and added to the generated cue sheet.

In an embodiment the production management system allows the MXE to automatically send the cue sheet electronically to the PRO s for the assignees who worked on the cues potentially negating the need for manual re entry in the PRO s production management systems. In an embodiment the production management system is configured to display information indicating the electronic submission of the cue sheet including information provided by the PRO such as the date time received or a confirmation number.

One potential breakdown in communication that occurs between members of the production is that the VDE and the MSPs often refer to cues in terms of scene numbers whereas the MXE and CMP refer to cues in terms of cue numbers . Since there is no direct correlation between scene numbers and cue numbers one member may have difficulty pinpointing exactly which scene the other member is attempting to reference. Thus the job of converting scene numbers often falls to the MXE. In an embodiment the production management system provides an interface which allows for automatic conversion between the various numbering schemes as further described herein in connection with .

In in embodiment the scene assignment layout displays a list of cues either auto populated from the spotting layout or as created within the scene assignment layout . Each cue is displayed with a begin scene dropdown menu and an end scene dropdown menu . The user uses the menus to determine which scene the cue starts in and which scene the cue ends in. In an embodiment the end scene by default is updated to the scene selected in the begin scene dropdown menu . Since many cues both begin and end in only one scene this default may save the user from entering unnecessary information. However if a cue spans two or more scenes the user can edit the end scene dropdown menu to change the default.

In an embodiment the scene assignment layout includes a number of brackets depicting the scene number that the cue starts in. Thus the cues may be ordered based on the begin scene dropdown menu to ensure a clean display for the brackets . If more than one consecutively displayed cue start in the same scene the client lengthens the brackets to include those cues. As a result the user has a quick visual way to determine which scenes contain which cues. In another embodiment the scene assignment layout may contain another set of brackets on the opposite side from brackets distinguishing cues that end in a different scene than the cue began. Thus providing the user with a convenient and visual way to determine the scenes that a cue spans.

In some embodiments the production management system automatically populates cues into scenes by utilizing data from the spotting layout in addition to data from the continuity layout. Since the spotting layout specifies the start and end timecode for each cue and the continuity layout specifies information from which the production management system can derive start and end timecodes order of the scenes and scene length the production management system can automatically discover which cues intersect with which scenes and automatically populate the scene assignment layout accordingly. In cases where the VDE has assigned temporary music in the continuity the production management system may add default cue information for the corresponding scenes representing the temp music. The default cues may include a default name e.g. based on the name of the episode or series and given a cue number in accordance with the cue numbering scheme e.g. based on order of cue creation .

In an embodiment the continuity layout includes act numbers scene numbers scene locations scene description and any music related or other notes. The VDE may flag any scene as needing licensed music via one or more widgets associated with a given scene. Once the continuity is complete the information displayed by the continuity layout becomes the basis for the MSP s scene layout and the MXE s scene assignment layout.

In an embodiment the VDE enters scene information in any preferred order. To add a new scene the VDE selects one of the new scene widget associated with a particular scene. In response the client inserts a new scene before or after the currently selected scene depending on which widget had been selected. In addition the VDE can select a scene delete widget to erase an associated scene or can move scenes around e.g. via drag and drop increment decrement buttons etc. to change the order in which the scenes appear. In some embodiments the continuity layout also allows the VDE to set temporary music e.g. with start and end timecodes representing windows of time where the VDE believes the MXE CMP should create a music cue. In some embodiments the continuity layout provides the VDE with the option of uploading the temporary music to the database which the production management system uses to create a playback icon associated with a generated cue in the spotting layout scene assignment layout or MSP layouts. The icon when selected by a user causes the production management system to begin playback of the uploaded temporary music. For example the VDE may have a general idea of the music that should be included at a particular scene and provide temporary music that has a similar mood so that the MXE CMP MSP know what type of music to obtain score.

In some embodiments a scene can be rendered inactive via a scene toggle widget causing the production management system to consider the scene as deleted for the purpose of generating reports or exporting data to other layouts but retaining it in case the scene needs to be added back at a later time. When a scene is deactivated the scene is visually distinguished such as being tinted red or displayed with a text strikethrough.

When the VDE is finished with the continuity the VDE can select a print send button or other widget to generate a PDF to be emailed or printed. In an embodiment the client arranges the PDF into acts with each act s running time and the scenes temporary music specified for each act. Further the continuity layout may provide the option to include the inactive but not removed scenes in the PDF while marking the inactive scenes as such e.g. with strikethrough . In some embodiments the continuity layout provides the option for the VDE to mark temporary music as either needing a license pre existing or needing to be scored originally composed or covered under a pre negotiated blanket license. Thus when the VDE has finished with the continuity the production management system sends a notification e.g. email to the MSP specifying the music that needs to be licensed and or a notification to the CMP specifying the music that needs to be originally scored. However in other embodiments any cues automatically generated in the spotting layout or MSP layouts may be displayed with the aforementioned notifications to inform the MXE CMP MSP of the status of the temporary music.

In an embodiment the VDE has a button or other widget that can be selected to signal that the continuity is complete and automatically notify the MSP and MXE to begin their respective tasks using the newly created continuity.

In an embodiment the VDE instead of working within the production management system works to create the continuity using external software databases. As a result the production management system may automatically interface with the external software database e.g. via the external source s API to extract the continuity data to populate the MSP and MXE layouts.

In an embodiment the production management system interfaces with a video editing platform e.g. Avid Media Composer Final Cut Pro Adobe Premiere or any other video editing platform whereby scene information and temp music info with metadata can be input directly into the production management system from external software used to edit the video.

Sending quote request and confirmation letters are often a very large portion of the MSP s duties. For example in many cases the MSP needs to contact each master owner and each publisher of every licensed track and at some point will need to provide both these letters. For an ordinary production this could potentially result in hundreds of emails. To make matters more difficult each studio will often have their own language and format that needs to be included in the letters. Thus the letter template layout allows the MSP to customize letters for repeated use. In this context the content of the letters may be communicated electronically or provided through a layout generated using the platform.

In an embodiment the MSP can use the templates to dictate the language each potential licensed letter will use what data is included and what entity is sending the letter. In addition the MSP can add a digital signature and optional countersignature line. The information provided in the templates then become a default for quote request and confirmation letters generated for a track via the MSP s various layouts. Thus when generating a letter the production management system auto fills the MSP s template information into the letter. Furthermore after the defaults have been entered the MSP is provided the opportunity to perform additional editing before the letter is finalized and emailed to the respective entities listed in review emails or license emails as defined in the MSP series setup layout .

In an embodiment since each kind of license requires both a quote request and a confirmation letter each template layout allows for at least three customizable templates covering Master Owner Publisher and Master Sync letters respectively. In some embodiments different templates having different content or form may be provided for specific publishers. Thus in an embodiment both template layouts provide buttons tabs or other widgets for selecting the exact template to modify.

In some cases the letters may need to appear as having come from the MSP while in other cases the letters may need to appear as coming from the production studio. Thus in an embodiment the template layouts maintain multiple letterhead options that the user can customize separately. For example the letterhead options may include one or more of the MSP s letterhead the studio s letterhead the production s letterhead or a text based letterhead that pulls information from the MSP s contact information . Furthermore the letterhead images chosen named and added to the templates can be pulled from the data previously entered into the MSP series setup layout .

In an embodiment the template layouts contain fields for paragraphs that would be common in letters such as the opening statement a few different rights warranty and a closing line. In addition there are also fields for default subject and body language of the email as well as who should be cc d.

In some embodiments the template layouts support a tagging production management system for certain variable information. Thus template layouts allow the MSP to create a template in plain English with variable data tags inserted into regular sentences which refer to information fields collected by other layouts. The data tags may be identified by markers such as two hash tags surrounding the data tag. For example take the following sentence 

In some embodiments the production management system provides a collection bin where the MSP may store all the tracks for consideration and the different means of obtaining them local hard drive iTunes Internet CD etc. . The bins act as a playlist from which the MSP can select music to listen for playback and or obtain timing information for other features of the production management system. In an embodiment multiple bins may be maintained with each bin corresponding to a particular category such as series wide scene style of music vocal non vocal etc. In an embodiment the platform may be configured with a search facility to enable searching for items in the bins.

The MSP worksheet layout provides the MSP with an overview of each scene in an episode and the possible tracks associated with the scene in the compact track information area . The MSP worksheet layout is auto populated with data from the VDE s continuity layout and includes act numbers scene numbers scene locations scene descriptions and any music related or other notes in the information area . After auto population the production management system provides the VDE with the option of modifying this information as needed. However in cases where the VDE did not participate in creating a continuity report or has yet to create the continuity report the VDE may enter the pertinent information manually. In some embodiments the MSP worksheet layout imports data for the information area from an external source such as via an API or other communication mechanism.

In the MSP worksheet layout the MSP can flag scenes as needing licensed music via one or more widgets. In some embodiments the MSP worksheet layout provides an option for the MSP to filter the scenes displayed in the information area to only those scenes flagged as requiring licensed music. Furthermore a scene can be deactivated or reactivated without being removed from the list via the toggle widgets. The deactivation may be visually represented such as by tinting the scene red displaying a strike through or via any other distinguishing marker. In some cases after a continuity report has been completed by the VDE the edit may change and scenes can be moved around or deleted. Since deleted scenes may be added back in a final cut deactivation without removal prevents the MSP from needing to add the information back in at a later time. In some embodiments if the VDE has modified scenes in the continuity layout after the MSP has already begun work the production management system notifies the MSP e.g. via a dialog box and provides the MSP with the option of viewing and importing the VDE s modifications.

The compact track information area also allows the MSP to enter tracks to process for licensing. In the fee section of the compact track information area the MSP can enter a dollar amount or type l to indicate thousands which the production management system will automatically convert to the appropriate dollar amount. For example 3 k will translate into 3000 7.5 k will translate into 7500 etc. The fee section also provides a summary at the bottom to show the total license fees for the episode. In an embodiment the fee section does not include the fees for deactivated scenes in the total. However the scene itself may still appear in the fee area with strikethrough color shading or other marker.

In some embodiments the production management system may limit the number of tracks that can be entered in the compact track information area for a scene to a particular number such as three tracks. However in other embodiments the number of tracks can be virtually unlimited. The fields in which tracks are entered in the compact track information area correspond with the option cells in the MSP worksheet layout . In an embodiment when a field row of the licensed track information area for a scene is filled in the corresponding cell in the option cells lights up to indicate a track has been entered for that cell. The option cells when selected bring up extended track information which includes the information in the compact track information area in addition to further details about the track.

In the extended track information layout the user can view and manage various aspects of the track s licensing process. In the industry each track considered for license follows a particular workflow a quote request letter is sent to the master owners and publishers offering the proposed fee and terms a quote is accepted or changes requested and then once an agreement is reached a confirmation letter is sent with the terms of the license. To provide perspective a series with 24 episodes will often have upwards to 10 tracks that require licensing. Performing the workflow for each track requires a massive amount of coordination and effort. In an embodiment the production management system handles the workflow process by automating the generation of a significant portion of the letters and automatically tracks the process for the MSP. Furthermore since the letters and track information is stored in the database the MSP can review and edit the letters or track information at any time and from anywhere. In this context the content of the letters may be communicated electronically using software.

In an embodiment the extended track information layout contains cell tabs that allow the user to switch which track s information is being displayed for the currently selected scene.

In an embodiment the extended track information layout shares fields with the compact track information area . As a result modifying a shared field in the extended track information layout also changes the corresponding field in the compact track information area and vice versa. Thus the compact track information area serves as a shortcut to certain fields track information descriptions etc. within the extended track information layout . In some embodiments the extended track information layout maintains many of the same functions as the compact track information area such as the ability to deactivate tracks.

In an embodiment option cell widgets in the left most column of perform functionality common to all option cells. For example the option cell widgets may provide links to the letter templates. In addition the option cell widgets may provide options to clear data relating to a particular or all option cells post and email data pertaining to option cells associated with active tracks and the ability to switch scenes e.g. to previous or next without the need to leave the extended track information layout . In such case the cell displayed will remain the same but will be adjusted to display that cell for the scene to which the user navigated. In the event that the scene does not have an enabled cell in the corresponding position the next closest cell may be chosen for display or the fields of the extended information layout may be left blank.

In an embodiment each option cell contains data pertaining to licensing the track represented by the cell. In some cases the option cell may also contain a link or option to display the track itself. In some embodiments status icons under the option cells present the user with a visual depiction of the status of licensing for the corresponding track. For example red may mean that the track is unlicensed yellow may mean that the license is currently being negotiated and green may mean that licensing for the track had completed.

In an embodiment the production management system provides multiple ways the user can add a track to a cell. In one embodiment the extended track information layout provides an option to read metadata from the media containing the track and import information into the fields automatically. For example the media may be located on the user s hard drive located over the internet or discovered via a third party software platform e.g. iTunes . In another embodiment the user can add the information manually by filling in the corresponding fields.

The license info box contains data relating to the use of the track. For example the fee for the license the type of license use e.g. Background Instrumentals BI Background Vocal BV Visual Vocal VV Main Title MT End Credits EC Logo L Visual Instrumental VI etc. which default to settings the MXE CMP chose during spotting the duration of the use and or a description of the use which defaults to the scene description but can be independently edited .

The contact box contains contact information for the master owner recording and sync owner publisher for the track in the cell. In an embodiment the production management system populates maintains and updates this information from within the corresponding tables of the database . In addition the contact box displays ownership information such as percentage ownership and fees. In some embodiments the production management system accommodates different percentage splits based on country. Thus the percentage split for one country can be modified or erased independently of another country s percentage splits. In the absence of specific information the production management system defaults to an even split for master owners and publishers which can be updated by the user. Furthermore in an embodiment the production management system provides an option to update the defaults so that a greater percentage can be associated with the sync owner over the master owner and vice versa. For more than two parties e.g. cases where the master owner or sync owner represents more than one entity the percentage split for the position may be further divided among the members of that position. The fee and percentage subtotals are displayed in the vicinity of the information pertaining to each position. In the event that the percentages do not add up to 100 the production management system informs the user with a visual alert e.g. tinting the entries red displaying an exclamation mark etc. .

The letter widgets provide the user with the option to create and track necessary correspondence for obtaining a license. In an embodiment the letter widgets provide the ability to create a new or view an existing quote request letter indicate that a quote request was approved and or create a new or view an existing confirmation letter. In an embodiment the letter widgets change color depending on the status of communication. For example grey may indicate no communication has been sent yellow may indicate that a corresponding letter has been generated but not yet sent and green may indicate that the corresponding letter has been sent or approval indicated. The colors thus allow the user to quickly infer the state of a license without needing to read through an extensive amount of text. In an embodiment the letters are sent via electronic communication software or other communication mechanisms.

In the cue sheet information fields the MSP can enter composers and publishers for the currently selected cell s track. In some embodiments the fields in the cue sheet information fields are automatically populated based on metadata embedded in the media containing the track. When the MXE generates the final queue sheet the production management system may access the information in these fields in order to automatically fill in corresponding fields in the cue sheet layout . In addition in the event that the percentage splits imported by the cue sheet layout do not add up to 100 the production management system may display an alert to the MXE or on the resulting cue sheet indicating that an error may have been introduced.

In the general notes area the user can enter information regarding batch processing and a workflow summary. In an embodiment the general notes area contains a number of widgets for sending or printing all quote request letters marking all quotes as being approved and or sending or printing all confirmation letters. In an embodiment date stamps are added in the vicinity of the widgets and can be changed by the user and each contact s status icons are updated accordingly. In addition the widgets may provide an option for the user to mark a scene as having an approved final license. In an embodiment the information area contains icons whose display is linked to the status icons of the extended track information layout .

In an embodiment the production management system tracks the overall license status through the use of icons. Thus if all quote requests for all active tracks have been sent the corresponding icon indicates such by turning a particular color e.g. by turning green . However if a letter for an active track has not been created or sent the icons indicate as such by turning a different color e.g. yellow . The extended track information layout may also display similar icons related to queue approvals and confirmation letters. In addition the overall license status may display an icon that indicates whether all the quote request letters approvals and confirmation letters have been confirmed or sent. Thus the icon may display grey if no action has been taken in the cell red if any activity has been taken in the cell to affect its licensing status and green when the MSP has indicated that the license has been committed. In some embodiments the extended track information layout includes the option for the MSP to indicate a license has been committed even in the absence of sending letters or indicating approval. For example the MSP may want to use external software to send the letters but still use the production management system for tracking license approvals and thus can bypass the checks ensuring that the letters were sent out and approvals obtained.

In an embodiment the production management system provides a product placement layout for members of the production team involved with supplying products or services which may be candidates for product placement advertising. For example members of this sort may include the prop director costume director advertising agents special effects coordinator vehicle supplier or any other individual whose job it is to supply an item used in a production or to procure a product or service for use in the show. Thus the users who enter product service data as described below need not be actively involved in product placement or procurement they may be involved only in issues such as set decoration costuming props or other production values without having a direct role in product placement. However the data they contribute can be usefully applied in other contexts when entered using the production management system as described herein and bound to timecode data.

In an embodiment the product placement layout contains fields specifying information such as the scene the product service will appear in a description of the product service manufacturer or supplier of the product service and make model version of the product service. In some embodiments the production management system automatically correlates the products entered into the product placement layout with the scene begin and scene end times that were entered by the VDE during the creation of the continuity. Thus in response to a user entering a scene number and product service information the production management system automatically determines the timecode start time and timecode end time for the associated scene. As a result the product service information is automatically supplemented with and authoritatively bound to timecode data and the production management system maintains an accurate listing of windows of time closely approximating the times when the product service is visible within the production. This information remains current even if the VDE later edits the time codes for the scene. Consequently the value of the product placement data increases substantially because other production management systems can use the data for ancillary purposes for example to determine when to make product sales offers at the time that the audiovisual program is played broadcast or exhibited based upon detecting the then current timecode position of the program at playback broadcast or exhibition and which product service data is associated with that position.

The product placement layout or any layout previously mentioned may be displayed with a widget configured to cause communicating a report organized by scene and or time frame of each product and service appearing in the production as indicated by the product placement layout. For example the product placement report may be sent to an advertiser to allow for targeted impulse advertisements to the added during the production s commercial breaks or provided as notifications to the user during playback of the production.

In some cases the product placement layout may be utilized by many different users with many different roles. Thus in an embodiment the product placement layout filters product placement information entered into the layout to only those entries supplied by the current user to avoid unnecessary clutter. However when it comes time to produce a product placement report the production management system may include all product placement information entered by any user. In some embodiments the production management system may organize the products and services listed in the report based on the description e.g. keyword searches or based on the job of the user entering the information. For example the report may organize the products or services displayed in each scene by subject matter a category for costumes cars food video games etc. .

In some embodiments the product placement layout may be implemented by a set of layouts specific to each user s role.

In one embodiment the production management system provides a 1assistant director AD with a layout for creating scene breakdowns. Before the VDE creates the continuity report much of the information is taken from a form known as a Scene Breakdown aka Day out of Days or One liner . The 1AD is responsible for creating and maintaining this document. The scene breakdown layout is a tool similar in function and design to the VDE continuity layout described above. The scene breakdown layout includes fields for scene description and location which can be automatically populated into the continuity layout . Additionally there are fields for other scene relation information including but not limited to character list wardrobe list populated from wardrobe log make up hair list populated from make up hair log prop product placement list populated from prop product log specific scene location information and production music notes on set production music when applicable . The logs are produced via layouts associated with other user roles examples of which will be described below. The logs serve to inform the 1AD which shots need to be captured. For example a deal could require that a specific shot of a car s sun roof appear in the cut and would show up in the scene breakdown layout. As a result the 1AD is reminded to get the correct shot and may appear in the VDE s layout so the shot can be properly represented in the cut.

In one embodiment the production management system provides a wardrobe designer layout. The wardrobe department in practice often has a lot of inventory to manage. The production management system thus provides tools to help keep track of the wardrobe department s inventory. Additionally the wardrobe designer layout can perform other asset management tasks such as maintaining photographs scanned receipts signed release forms etc.

The overall functionality of the wardrobe department layout begins with a logging tool whereby each article of clothing is assigned an item number. Groups of items can be assigned unique group ids for example an entire wedding outfit would be a group the shoes dress and veil would be separate items with separate item numbers . Each item and group has the ability to attach multiple photographic assets and tagged with user defined descriptors. Source information such as website and store addresses phone numbers contact info etc. is captured via the wardrobe designer layout. A dropdown list easily allows assignment to pre defined characters appearing in the production. Other information obtained through various scripts executed by the production management system could also be presented as dropdown like location descriptions.

To handle agreements and licenses between clothing designers and the production the production management system models tools based on the same functionality of the MSP license tracking tools e.g. status icons . Form letters can be generated automatically using variable data hash tagging template methods described earlier in reference to the letter template layout . Software and other communication mechanisms may be used to send letters generated based on the fields of the letter template layout .

A detailed sheet for each item or item group can be printed or emailed detailing all of the metadata and photographic assets. Optionally the detailed sheet may include pricing licensing information. A full report with thumbnail images can be generated showing item and group uses by act scene character location or any other metric captured by the production management system. Software and other communication mechanisms may be used to send report.

In some embodiments the production management system provides a make up hair layout. The make up hair layout provides logging tools similar to the wardrobe designer layout described above and can be used to capture products used styles photos continuity notes and other data related to important props. In addition for inventory tracking of props and products used the make up hair layout functions similar to the wardrobe designer layout. Photographic assets can be captured within the make up hair layout as well. In some embodiments props and products that have been included due to product placement deals will be covered by other special tools and layouts. During pre production and early stages of production when many of these deals are made these tools help to assist the negotiation between the product placement team or whoever at the studio level is assigned this role and the products to be included in the production. A layout similar to the MSP licensing tool described earlier can be used to track the status of negotiations with potential placements and generate any necessary agreements. As with other layouts any data captured is contextualized within the production management system and where possible is assigned frame accurate timing data upon picture edit creation and completion by supplementing the data with information from other layouts.

In some embodiments the product management system provides a product spotting layout. illustrates a product spotting layout according to an embodiment.

Production assets tracked through the production management system licensed or fair use gain act and scene specific context tying it to all other relevant data stored in the database . For frame accurate description of when products appear and disappear from view a member of the product placement team or editorial staff will in practice require timecode values. As a result the production management system can provide a tool similar to the spotting layout described earlier but specific to tracking the timecodes associated with products. Just like cues in the spotting layout products are identified by start and end timecode values. Furthermore the products can be organized based in order of appearance scenes product types etc. Information from the various production logs can be utilized by the production management system to automatically populate the corresponding information in the product spotting layout . Within each scene products appear as line items. The fields for the start timecodes and end timecodes can be entered manually or captured in real time by pressing a key command or selecting a widget as video playback begins in the video playback window . As the cut evolves the production management system automatically adjusts the timings in the product spotting layout . For example if a scene is modified using the offset layout corresponding changes are performed in the product spotting layout for affected scenes. In addition to the spotting information the product spotting layout may also display general information related to the series episode version such as series name episode name episode number cut edit description version number date mix date air date etc. which can be automatically populated from other layouts.

In some embodiments the production management system utilizes object recognition technology to identify objects in a frame. For example the production management system may run an object recognition algorithm on a clip of the production s video and identify individual objects along with the start and end timecodes for when those objects are visible. The production management system may then automatically populate the fields for a given scene with a general descriptor for each object and the start and end timecodes for when those objects appear.

In an embodiment once product spotting is complete e.g. the user selects a widget that locks product spotting the production management system has access to frame accurate timing information in addition to other context the database provides . For example other context that the production management system may provide includes but is not limited to what character is involved where the scene is taking place e.g. a particular restaurant hotel or vacation destination where a product is from i.e. a website that was captured by logging during creation of the production what music is playing while the product is on screen which commercial break is coming up after the product s appearance allowing an advertiser to buy a commercial slot after their product appears etc. Since all of this data is captured by the product management system during production by the people who have the greatest stake in getting the information correct the product management system can provide advertisers with quick and efficient access to accurate product placement details even prior to initial release or broadcast.

In an embodiment the production management system provides a B2B business to business music search portal that serves as a single destination where users can go to find music to license or add as temporary music for a production. Example users include all those defined herein as PUB. Music obtained through the music search portal passes relevant tagging information and equivalent e.g. iTunes tags via Gracenote or other metadata provider but once chosen is also given any available context from within the database . For example the track may be associated with an episode name number act number scene number CueLinks and any other relevant data. Additionally non publicly available dynamically changing data on current ownership and royalty splits stored in the database may also be made available.

One reason music publishers and record labels may find the music search portal useful is that they retain control at all times of when certain non public ownership information and high quality assets themselves are released. For example they can decide to publish license rates for each track or identify tracks which require a negotiation. As ownership information changes the publishers and labels may choose when to update the database with the changes. Further they are on the desk and embedded in the workflow of those in the best position to choose licensed music. Music supervisors on the other hand find utility because the forensic research that traditionally would need to be done to find those who own the track and split amounts can be discovered automatically if the information is available in the database or via a searchable database provided by the PUB. Furthermore the music editor may find utility because the music search portal can automatically populate cue sheet information upon the grant of a license and automatically obtain the media itself for inclusion in the final mix of the production.

In some embodiments the music search portal provides a feature for VDEs where any originally composed music on a production will at the composer s and or publisher s discretion become available for search via the portal. The music may or may not be licensable but would be available to VDEs looking to choose temporary scores. Thus the VDE becomes able to choose temporary music from sources not traditionally available. For example the VDE may be able to search by score oriented or context descriptions such as action romance car chase etc. in addition to standard musical terminology such as jazz or pop rock . In practice composers tend to prefer the VDE to choose temporary music composed by themselves since that can lead to being hired to score original music for the production.

At block the production management system receives search criteria from the VDE or other user . For example the VDE may specify to search for music with a certain name length media format context descriptor composer publisher etc.

At block the production management system searches the database and displays results to the VDE which match the criteria received at block . In some embodiments the production management system may also search external databases outside the production management system e.g. databases belonging to PROs or publishers when searching for music to display.

At block the production management system receives user input indicating selection by the VDE of one or more tracks from the tracks displayed at block . In an embodiment the tracks selected at block represent tracks that the VDE intends to preview before selecting a track to add to a collection bin or to insert as temporary music into a continuity report.

At block the production management system streams one or more tracks for the VDE. In some embodiments rather than streaming one or more tracks the production management system may send the media container as one unit. In some embodiments in order to save bandwidth the tracks streamed by the production management system may be lower quality e.g. subject to heavier compression lower rate etc. than when the track is sent using a non streaming mechanism.

At block the production management system receives selection of a particular track from the VDE. In some embodiments the VDE previews tracks via block and block and block represents selection of a particular track to add to a collection bin or to insert into the continuity report for a production.

At block the production management system places the user s selected track in a music bin for the VDE or directly into the current production. For example if a VDE had been searching for temporary music the production management system may allow the VDE to specify via a temp music cell where the music should be inserted in the continuity layout . In response the production management system automatically adds the fields necessary to add the temporary music. Furthermore tracks selected via the production management system can be made context aware as the production management system can correlate the selected track with act and scene numbers through information provided by the various layouts. Additionally with video editing platform integration the VDE can replace a piece of music directly with a new selection from the music search portal.

At block the production management system alerts the MSP to obtain licensing for the track. For example the production management system may ultimately update the MSP s worksheet layout and extended track information layout with licensing and or track information obtained from the database or potentially external databases . MSP can then contact the licensing entity via internal communication or outside e.g. sending an ordinary email to obtain license to use the track. In some embodiments the database contains an extensive archive of licensing information for tracks e.g. how much the track was licensed for contact information for the licensor etc. that the production management system can use to populate the fields in the MSP layouts. In some cases the pertinent information may not be available and the MSP will need to perform research outside the production management system to obtain the contact information. However when the information is added to by the MSP during the process of negotiation that information is automatically stored in the database for referencing when the same track is licensed by another user or during another production. In some embodiments the storing operation described herein is permitted when the user has appropriate security privileges. In some embodiments the production management system provides an interface or layout for publishers which allow them to dynamically update licensing information for tracks which they own and the types of licensing information that makes available to its users. In some embodiments the licensing information for each track is stored in the database with a time to live timestamp which when exceeded causes the production management system to inform e.g. via email the licensing entity to update or confirm the information provided by the production management system. In other embodiments the licensing entity may maintain an external database of licensing information with which the production management system can interface with when the time to live timestamp is exceeded to extract the information.

At block the production management system determines that the MSP has completed licensing for the track e.g. via the MSP worksheet layout or extended track information layout . In response at block the production management system provides a mix of the track to the MXE for inclusion in the final deliverables and ownership licensing information is automatically supplied to the appropriate fields of the cue sheet layout . In various embodiments the mix of a track may be provided directly from the production management s database or via an API to a licensor s database.

In some embodiments the production management system provides a publisher layout that provides detailed licensing history status and comparative information to publishers subject to appropriate security checks. For example the publisher layout may provide a listing of all tracks owned by the publisher with markers distinguishing the tracks which are currently under negotiations. Further each track can be selected by the publisher to bring up detailed information regarding the current and previous negotiations such as the type of production the negotiation is for the parties involved the licensing fees negotiated and or rejected concurrent negotiations that may conflict whether pre approved licensing fees for the track exists etc. Furthermore the production management system may collect scrubbed anonymous data from the negotiations performed by users to compile general comparative statistics such as averaging licensing fees for tracks in a given category e.g. music in the top 50 hits music more than ten years old etc. which can be displayed via the publisher layout. Furthermore the publisher layout can provide overview statistics to the publisher such as total number of tracks owned being negotiated average max min median license fees and most popular licensed tracks.

In an embodiment the music search portal allows for 1 non publicly available master and sync owner information to be automatically pushed to user layouts upon a license agreement 2 assets and metadata can be maintained and controlled by the content owners 3 the content owners can decide when to release ownership information and cue sheet data on a case by case basis 4 the content owners can choose to show license rates or negotiate on a track by track basis from within the production management system 5 Ownership information can be prevented from going stale since the latest most current ownership and split information from the content owner is pushed through the search portal on request and 6 temporary music can be automatically searched for and included in continuities to streamline the scoring process.

In some embodiments the production management system provides alternatives for the layouts discussed previously that may be displayed instead of the previously described layouts or provided to the user as an option. The following serve as examples of alternative layouts.

In some embodiments the production management system provides a variety of tools for specific user groups that allow specific management of details pertaining to live sessions recording of actual musicians can range from a single player to a full one hundred person orchestra or more .

In an embodiment the production management system provides a musician group tool for defining and utilizing groups of musicians. illustrates a musicians group tool layout according to an embodiment. In an embodiment the musicians group tool layout indicates specific instruments needed number of instruments and corresponding players. In addition the musicians group tool layout ties into the musician budgeting expenses and union required contracts forms provided by other layouts to populate the appropriate fields. Furthermore the musicians group tool layout allows the user to assign musician groups to cues and allows the user to sort cues by musician group or instrument type s .

In an embodiment the production management system provides a scheduling and viewing tool. The scheduling and viewing tool cross references musician groups and budgets and pushes data to the union contracts and populates appropriate fields of other layouts and forms. In addition the scheduling and viewing tool displays information regarding which cues and versions to record mix orchestrate etc. Furthermore the scheduling and viewing tool displays groups by a variety of metrics supplied by users of the production management system. For example the metrics may include information provided by the CueLinks layout .

In an embodiment the production management system provides a take tool. illustrates a take tool layout according to an embodiment. The take tool layout keeps track of each recorded pass and allows notes to be entered in the note information area . Further the take tool layout may indicate which parts of a take are usable via bar numbers timecodes ratings or other methods. In an embodiment the take tool layout provides a link to information in other industry standard recording platforms e.g. Avid Pro Tools Apple Logic MOTU Digital Performer etc. to allow for seamless integration of recording and logging takes without having to rekey data. In some embodiments the take tool layout provides a grid view that shows bars and takes with static or sectional markers allowing the user to swipe across any number of bars to indicate usable parts of a take.

In an embodiment the production management system provides a progress tracking tool. The progress tracking tool keeps track of each task as it applies to each cue for example recording mixing orchestration composing etc. . In addition the progress tracking tool provides subtotals and sorting based on the progress of the tasks. In some embodiments the progress tracking tool provides a graphical view e.g. pie chart bar chart etc. showing how many minutes of music have been recorded how many minutes are left to record and how much time is left in the recording session. Furthermore the progress tracking tool allows for filtering based on any number of criteria such as cues to record in a given day assignees engineers etc.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

25. A non transitory computer readable data storage media coupled to the one or more processors wherein the data storage media store one or more sequences of instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform a method as recited in any of clauses 1 to 22.

The disclosure further includes and encompasses the subject matter of the following numbered clauses 1. A method of spotting music for a motion picture comprising receiving music editor MXE cue data defining a plurality of MXE cues each having a start timecode value and an end timecode value based on the MXE cue data creating and storing an MXE timecode path a composer CMP timecode path and a cue sheet timecode path copying one or more of the MXE cues to CMP cues in the CMP timecode path in a CMP spotting dataset receiving one or more changes to the CMP cues without also modifying the MXE cues applying an editing lock to the CMP cues auto populating the CMP cues to cue sheet cues in the cue sheet timecode path receiving one or more changes to the cue sheet cues without also modifying the CMP cues finalizing and distributing a cue sheet based on the cue sheet cues wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

2. A method comprising receiving user input specifying one or more products and a scene when the product will be presented during a production receiving video editor VDE continuity data specifying timecodes for the scene generating a report based on the VDE continuity data wherein the report indicates the timecodes during which the product will be presented during a production wherein the method is performed before the production has been closed and the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

3. A method comprising receiving user input representing search criteria for music attributes of interest to a video editor VDE retrieving and sending one or more music tracks based on the search criteria receiving user input representing selection of a particular track of the one or more music tracks by the VDE notifying a music supervisor MSP that the VDE has selected the particular track and populating fields in a MSP layout based on information related to the particular track in response to a determination that the MSP has concluded negotiations for the particular track adding the particular track to a music editor MXE layout for review by a MXE wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

4. A data processing method comprising receiving in a computer from any of a music composer or a music publisher metadata specifying attributes of an original music composition receiving a selection authorizing availability of the metadata in a data search system and in response thereto providing the metadata to the data search system wherein without the selection the metadata is unavailable in the data search system receiving from a motion picture editor a search query directed at locating an item of temporary music for use in an editing phase of production of an audiovisual program wherein the search query includes one or more score oriented descriptor terms determining that the metadata satisfies the search query and in response thereto providing a search response that identifies the original music composition and includes information about how to obtain download or license a copy of the original music composition for use as the temporary music wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

5. A data processing method comprising receiving metadata identifying a music track based on a selection of the music track from among a plurality of music tracks storing the metadata in association with project data indicating an act number and scene of an audiovisual program receiving a request to provide ownership data for the music track sending a copy of the request to a music publisher computer associated with a music publisher of the music track receiving an authorization message from the music publisher computer that includes one or more music ownership data items of master owner data sync owner data and royalty split data relating to the music track wherein without the authorization message the music ownership data items are unavailable for use in response to the request to provide ownership data providing the music ownership data items in response to the request to provide ownership data in response to a signal indicating completion of a music licensing transaction receiving one or more mixes of the music track and storing the one or more mixes in association with the audiovisual program and automatically storing the music ownership data items in a cue sheet associated with the audiovisual program wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

6. The method of clause further comprising performing sending the copy of the request to the music publisher computer associated with a music publisher of the music track in response to every request over time to provide ownership information for the music track.

7. The method of clause further comprising receiving the authorization message only for one music track that is controlled by the music publisher and not receiving another authorization message for one or more other music tracks that the music publisher also controls.

8. A data processing method comprising receiving music editor MXE cue data defining a plurality of MXE cues each having a start timecode value and an end timecode value based on the MXE cue data creating and storing an MXE timecode path a composer CMP timecode path and a cue sheet timecode path copying one or more of the MXE cues to CMP cues in the CMP timecode path in a CMP spotting dataset auto populating the CMP cues to cue sheet cues in the cue sheet timecode path receiving one or more descriptors and storing the descriptors in association with the cues wherein the descriptors are based upon any one or more of story location character costume prop or other production values associated with an audiovisual production finalizing and distributing a cue sheet based on the cue sheet cues wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.

9. The method of clause further comprising generating one or more reports that identify a music composition associated with one of the music cues and including each of the descriptors that is associated with that music composition.

10. The method of clause further comprising automatically determining a cue length of each of the MXE cues based on the start timecode value and end timecode value of each of the MXE cues.

11. The method of clause further comprising receiving scene data identifying scene numbers for scenes in the audiovisual program determining whether each of the scenes based on the scene data contains a music item and in response thereto determining whether the music item is a temporary score or is requiring a license creating and storing cue data relating to the music item storing in association with the cue data a starting scene number and an ending scene number for a first scene in which the cue starts and a second scene in which the cue ends causing display of a user interface layout that includes the cue data the music item the starting scene number and the ending scene number.

13. The method of clause wherein the cue sheet cues comprise at least a first cue and a second cue and further comprising determining that the second cue starts within a specified time of the first cue generating a notification message identifying the first cue and the second cue.

14. The method of clause further comprising generating a spot composer hybrid user interface display that comprises a first region displaying the CMP cues and a second region displaying the MXE cues wherein the first region and second region are adjacent.

15. The method of clause wherein the first region and second region comprise parallel adjacent columns.

receiving the MXE cue data from a first computer at a first time receiving the one or more changes to the CMP cues from a second computer at a second time that is close to the first time performing the copying applying and auto populating based upon the MXE cue data changes and the copying applying and auto populating causing updating both the first region and the second region in first and second graphical user interface displays of both the first computer and the second computer at approximately a same time.

17. The method of clause further comprising receiving assignee data that identifies a plurality of different assignees each of whom is associated with one or different music items of an audiovisual production determining for each particular assignee among all the assignees a workload value based upon a proportional contribution to all the music items in the audiovisual production of that particular assignee obtaining a budget amount applicable to all assignees determining an optional pay amount based upon the budget amount and the workload value of each of the assignees causing generating a computer screen display that indicates the optional pay amount for one or more of the assignees.

18. The method of clause further comprising excluding from the optional pay amount one particular assignee in response to receiving a selection of an opt out option that identifies that particular assignee.

19. The method of clause wherein the determining the optional pay amount is based upon a percentage of the music items that the particular assignee contributed.

20. The method of clause wherein the determining the optional pay amount is based upon a number of minutes of each music item contributed by the particular assignee.

21. The method of clause further comprising receiving scene data identifying scene numbers for scenes in the audiovisual program determining whether each of the scenes based on the scene data contains a music item and in response thereto determining whether the music item is a temporary score or is requiring a license creating and storing cue data relating to the music item determining a cue name for a cue represented in the cue data wherein the cue name is based upon an act number of the first scene and optionally based upon one or more of a number of other cues that precede the current cue and whether the music item is a temporary score or is requiring a license automatically determining and storing in association with the cue data one or more scene numbers for a scene in which the cue starts causing display of a user interface layout that includes the cue data the music item and the one or more scene numbers.

22. The method of clause wherein the one or more scene numbers comprise a starting scene number of a first scene in which the cue starts and an ending scene number of a second scene in which the cue ends.

23. A special purpose computer system comprising one or more processors and one or more non transitory computer readable data storage media coupled to the one or more processors wherein the data storage media store one or more sequences of instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform a method as recited in any of clauses 1 to 22.

24. A computer program product one or more sequences of instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform a method as recited in any of clauses 1 to 22.

