---

title: Resource management in machine to machine networks
abstract: The disclosure is related to managing resources in an M2M network. Particularly, the present disclosure relates to performing a resource management by using a substitute resource in place of a failure resource in an M2M network. More specifically, in the case that a failure occurs in a specific resource associated with a request message, the present embodiment may select a substitute resource using a correlation between resources, and transfer the request message to the selected substitute resource. Herein, the resource management may be performed by a virtual service capability layer (SCL).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215551&OS=09215551&RS=09215551
owner: KT CORPORATION
number: 09215551
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140204
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0012342 filed on Feb. 4 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to performing a resource management in a machine to machine MM network and in particular to replacing a specific resource with another resource i.e. a substitute resource when a failure occurs in the specific resource in an MM network.

A machine to machine MM communication refers to any communication scheme which does not require human intervention in the process of communication. In other words the MM communication refers to a communication for providing persons or intelligent equipment with object information using communication networks or allowing persons or intelligent equipment to control states of objects. The MM communication may be variously referred to as a machine type communication MTC Internet of things IoT a smart device communication SDC a machine oriented communication MOC or an object to object intelligent network O2N .

A variety of technology such as a location awareness a context awareness an augmented reality and so forth may be introduced in an MM service or an MM network. Accordingly a purpose of the MM communication is to further improve the quality and stability of MM communication services while automatically performing operations customized to users and or situations without a human intervention or in a state in which a human intervention is minimized.

An MM network communication may be employed for overcoming a variety of social issues e.g. a disaster prevention an energy saving through u City u Health u Transportation u Environment industries and so forth. An MM service associated with the MM network communication may include a remote metering a building facility management a vending machine management an indoor lighting adjustment a traffic information vehicle control an emergency rescue a fire alarm a security alarm a telemetric a wireless payment and so forth. Particularly the MM service has recently been applied to medical equipment such as a pulsometer and an electrocardiograph. Accordingly the MM service is being actively applied to a variety of e Health fields e.g. a remote patient monitoring .

An MM communication is an object to object communication. Therefore the MM communication may have different characteristics from a human to human H2H communication. Essential techniques may be changed due to such difference of characteristics. Necessary characteristics may be changed according to use fields of the MM communication. Standard groups of all the countries of the world including ETSI European Telecommunication Standard Institute have conducted research and development for successful MM communication standardization.

Particularly the present ETSI standard recognizes an MM network an MM gateway and an MM device as resources by applying the RESTful architecture and adopts a scheme of managing the resources through a plurality of methods e.g. CREATE RETRIEVE UPDATE DELETE methods . Access to the resources is possible only if there is universal resource identifier URI information. In order to increase efficiency of access to the resources a concept of announced resource consisting of attribute of resource has been introduced.

A typical resource management according to the ETSI standard is performed based on the announced resources. Accordingly a typical resource management may be effective as a scheme of finding a primary resource. However in the case that a failure occurs in a called announced resource the typical resource management merely processes as a failure of an access to the corresponding resource. Therefore a resource fault recovery scheme may be necessary such as a replacement with another resource in the case that a failure occurs in the announced resource.

In addition in the case that a specific resource is frequently accessed there may be a need for minimizing or optimizing a preparation time or a response time for use of the corresponding resource by considering a frequency of use associated with the corresponding resource.

For example a typical MM service according to the ETSI standard may provide e Health service for a patient treatment. In this case when a treatment device does not work properly an access to the corresponding treatment device is merely processed as failure without considering a substitute resource. Even in the case of medical devices for a repetitive or continuous treatment the frequency or history associated with use thereof is not considered. Therefore the same preparation time i.e. resource preparation time is required whenever an MM service is provided thereby making it difficult to provide a rapid MM service.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that is further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present invention overcome the above disadvantages and other disadvantages not described above. Also the present invention is not required to overcome the disadvantages described above and an embodiment of the present invention may not overcome any of the problems described above.

In accordance with an aspect of the present embodiment a resource management in an MM network may be performed by using a substitute resource in place of a failure resource. More specifically in the case that a failure occurs in a specific resource in an MM network the present embodiment may replace a specific resource e.g. MM device with other resource having a higher correlation. Herein the resource management may be performed by a virtual service capability layer SCL .

In accordance with an aspect of the present embodiment a method may be provided performing a resource management in a machine to machine MM network. The method may include receiving a request message associated with a specific resource from an issuer determining a substitute resource to replace the specific resource based on correlation information between resources when the specific resource is unavailable obtaining location information of a service capability layer SCL where the substitute resource resides and transferring the request message to the SCL of the substitute resource by using the location information.

At least one of the receiving the determining the obtaining and the transferring may be performed by a virtual SCL included in at least one MM entity in the MM network.

The correlation information may include at least one of correlation coefficients for reachability of the resources and correlation coefficients for reusability of the resources.

The correlation coefficients for the reachability may be calculated based on a history of accesses to each of the resources. The correlation coefficients for the reusability may calculated based on a history of calls from other resources with respect to each of the resources.

The correlation coefficients for the reachability may be calculated using device reachability addressing and repository DRAR and gateway reachability addressing and repository GRAR . The correlation coefficients for the reusability may be calculated using device history and data retention DHDR and gateway history and data retention GHDR .

The correlation information may include correlation information between announced resources associated with the MM network.

The obtaining the location information may include requesting by the virtual SCL the location information to an announced to SCL and obtaining by the virtual SCL the location information of the SCL from the announced to SCL.

The location information of the SCL may include a universal resource identifier URI of the SCL where the substitute resource resides.

The transferring the request message may include transferring hop type information of the substitute resource together with the request message.

The determining the substitute resource may include retrieving one or more substitute resource candidates based on the correlation information between the resources and determining a substitute resource candidate having a greatest correlation coefficient as the substitute resource.

The determining the substitute resource may include re determining a substitute resource candidate having a next greatest correlation coefficient as the substitute resource when a response message to the request message is not received from the SCL of the substitute resource.

The method may further include transferring the request message to an SCL where the specific resource resides when the specific resource is available.

The transferring the request message to the SCL of the specific resource may further include transmitting hop type information of the specific resource to the SCL of the specific resource.

In accordance with another embodiment an apparatus may be provided for performing a resource management in a machine to machine MM network. The apparatus may include a monitoring processor an analysis processor and a virtual SCL creation processor. Monitoring processor may be configured to collect attributes of resources associated with the MM network. The analysis processor may be configured to analyze the collected attributes of the resources and to obtain information on correlation between the resources. The virtual SCL creation processor may be configured to create a virtual SCL based on the correlation information. Herein the virtual SCL may be configured to i receive a request message from an issuer ii select a substitute resource based on the correlation information when a resource associated with the request message is unavailable iii obtain location information on the selected substitute resource and iv transfer the request message to an SCL of the substitute resource by using the location information.

The virtual SCL may be configured to retrieve one or more substitute resource candidates based on the correlation information and to determine a substitute resource candidate having a greatest correlation coefficient as the substitute resource.

The virtual SCL may be configured to re determine a substitute resource candidate having a next greatest correlation coefficient as the substitute resource when a response message responding to the request message is not received from the SCL of the substitute resource.

When transferring the request message to the selected substitute resource the virtual SCL may be configured to transfer hop type information of the substitute resource together with the request message.

The correlation information may be correlation information between announced resources associated with the MM network.

The virtual SCL creation processor may be configured to update the virtual SCL at least one of i when an architecture of the MM network is changed and ii when request and response processes are performed between the resources.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain embodiments of the present invention by referring to the figures.

The present embodiment may perform a resource management by using a substitute resource in place of a failure resource in an MM network. More specifically in the case that a failure occurs in a specific resource associated with a request message the present embodiment may select a substitute resource using a correlation between resources and transfer the request message to the selected substitute resource. Herein the resource management may be performed by a virtual service capability layer SCL . Furthermore when transferring the request message to the selected substitute resource corresponding hop type information may be transferred together.

Referring to MM devices and are terminals that perform communication without a human intervention or in a state in which human intervention is minimized. In particular MM devices and may refer to any type of devices that send and forward data stored therein in response to an external request or automatically.

According to the ETSI standard in the case that MM device directly connects to access network MM device may run MM applications using MM service capabilities SCs . Herein the MM applications may be referred to as device applications DAs . Meanwhile MM device may connect to access network via MM gateway . In this case MM device may use MM service capabilities SCs of MM gateway .

MM area network may provide connectivity between MM device and MM gateway . For example MM area network may include a personal area network PAN and or a local area network LAN but is not limited thereto. The PAN may include IEEE 802.15.x Zigbee Bluetooth IETF ROLL ISA100.11a and so forth. The LAN may include PLC M BUS Wireless M BSU KNX and so forth.

MM gateway may run MM applications using MM service capabilities SCs . Herein MM applications may be referred to as gateway applications GAs . MM gateway may act as a proxy between MM device and access network .

Access network may allow MM device and or MM gateway to communicate with core network CN . For example access network may include xDSL HFC FTTH PLC satellite GERAN UTRAN eUTRAN Wireless LAN and or WiMAX WiBro but is not limited thereto.

Core network CN may provide an IP connectivity an access network control network service control functions an interconnection with other networks roaming functions and so forth. For example core network may include 3GPP CN ETSI TISPAN CN 3GPP2 CN and or IMS but is not limited thereto.

MM service capabilities SCs in a network domain may provide functions that are to be shared by different applications and environments that allow access to other service capabilities through open interfaces. The use of such MM service capabilities may make it possible to develop and deploy optimized applications without considering characteristics of lower network layers.

MM applications of the network domain may run an MM service logic and use MM service capabilities through an open interface provided in the MM system. Herein MM applications may be referred to as network applications NAs . 

Referring to the network domain may include MM management functions and network management functions . MM management functions may include all the functions required to manage MM service capabilities in the network domain. The management of the MM devices e.g. and the MM gateways e.g. may use a specific MM service capability. Network management functions may include all the functions required to manage access network and core network . Network management functions may include a variety of functions such as a provisioning a supervision a fault management and so forth.

According to the ETSI standard MM service capabilities in the network domain may be referred to as a network service capabilities layer NSCL . MM service capabilities in MM gateway may be referred to as a gateway service capabilities layer GSCL . MM service capabilities e.g. in MM devices e.g. may be referred to as a device service capabilities layer DSCL . The NSCL the GSCL and the DSCL may be collectively referred to as a service capabilities layer SCL . The NSCL may refer to individual platforms established for services by MM service providers.

The service capabilities SCs of the GSCL may include the following SCs. A gateway reachability addressing and repository GRAR capability may provide the functionalities of i managing a reachability status of an MM device and scheduling information pertaining to a reachability of the MM device ii allowing to create delete and list a group of MM devices and iii storing MM applications e.g. NA DA and GA and SCL e.g. GSCL or NSCL data and making it available.

A gateway history and data retention GHDR capability may provide the functionality of archiving relevant information pertaining to messages exchanged over a reference point or internally to the GSCL.

Like the GSCL the SCs of the DSCL may include a device reachability addressing and repository DRAR capability and a device history and data retention DHDR capability. Herein the DRAR capability may provide the functionalities of i allowing to create delete and list a group of MM devices ii storing DA related registration information and NSCL information and iii informing the NSCL about reachability and scheduling information pertaining to reachability of the MM devices. The DHDR capability may provide the functionality of archiving relevant information pertaining to messages exchanged over a reference point and or internally to the DSCL.

The ETSI standard specifies how MM applications DA GA or NA and MM SCLs exchange information with each other by applying RESTful architecture to an MM network. Representational state transfer REST refers to a software architecture style. The REST may be used for data access on a web. Such RESTful web service may have a characteristic that is accessible with only an HTTP protocol regardless of server client types as long as a resource URI is known. The ETSI standard specifies a method of transferring representation information associated with resources uniquely defined using the RESTful architecture. In addition the ETSI standard defines specification about resources that reside in an SCL.

Referring to at step S when data resource data associated with an MM device is updated created DA may write the created updated data to container of NSCL through DSCL .

At step S NSCL may notify NA about the writing update of the data. At step S when receiving a notification from NSCL NA may read the data from container of NSCL .

As in the example of a resource may be a uniquely addressable entity in the RESTful architecture of the ETSI standard. The resource may have a representation that shall be transferred and manipulated with verbs. The resource may addressed using a universal resource identifier URI .

Methods associated with the verbs described above in the ETSI standard may be referred to as CRUD methods e.g. CREATE RETRIEVE UPDATE and DELETE . In other words when handling resources in a RESTful architecture there are four basic methods e.g. CREATE RETRIEVE UPDATE and DELETE that are applied to resources.

In addition to these basic methods additional methods such as NOTIFY and EXECUTE may be defined. The NOTIFY method may be used to indicate an operation for reporting a notification about a change of a resource as a consequence of a subscription. The NOTIFY method may map to a response of a RETRIEVE method in case that a long polling mechanism is used or to an UPDATE method in case that an asynchronous mechanism is used. The EXECUTE method may be used for executing a management command task which is represented by a resource. The EXECUTE method may correspond to an UPDATE method without any payload data.

According to the ETSI standard an actor performing a request may be defined as an issuer. The issuer may be either an MM application or an SCL. The content of an announced resource may refer to a resource hosted by a hosting SCL Master original resource . The purpose of the announced resource is to facilitate a discovery of an original resource so that the issuer of the discovery does not have to contact all SCLs in order to find the resource.

With respect to SCLs more details will be described below. As described in the ETSI standard a local SCL may be the SCL where an application or an SCL shall register to. The local SCL may be a first SCL that receives a request from an original issuer e.g. an application or an SCL of the request. If an NA is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding NSCL. If a GA is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding GSCL. If a DA in a D device e.g. is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding DSCL. If a DA in a D device e.g. is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding GSCL. If a GSCL is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding NSCL. If the DSCL in a D device is the original issuer the local SCL may be a corresponding NSCL or GSCL. The hosting SCL may be the SCL where an addressed resource resides.

A resource may be announced to multiple SCLs. In this case an SCL that contains the announced resource may be referred to as an announced to SCL. Herein the announced resource may point to the original resource hosted in another SCL. The announced resource may be configured with a limited set of attributes which are searchStrings a link to the original resource and an access right. The purpose of the announced resource is to facilitate a discovery of the original resource when querying the announced to SCL so that the issuer of the discovery does not have to contact all SCLs in order to find the resources. The announced resource itself may be directly accessed through its full URI. During a discovery process a direct reference to the original resource may be returned. The ETSI standard defines that only locally created resources can be announced. Removing an announced resource for example due to deregistration of an SCL may not remove the original resource. Reversely when the original resource is removed an announced resource may be removed.

First a RETRIEVE operation of CREATE RETRIEVE UPDATE ELETE CRUD operations will be described in more detail with reference to . For example as shown in a local SCL and a hosting SCL may be the same entities and therefore no hop is needed. At step S in order to access a certain resource an issuer may send a request for a resource discovery to a local SCL hosting SCL. Herein the issuer may be one of a NA a DA a GA and an SCL. In this case a RETRIEVE method may be employed.

At step S when receiving the request the local SCL hosting SCL may check an access right for the resource and perform a local processing procedure. More specifically the local SCL hosting SCL may perform the local processing procedure discovering the specific resource.

At step S the local SCL hosting SCL may send a discovery response to the issuer according to discovery results. More specifically if a corresponding resource is found the local SCL hosting SCL may send a success response to the issuer. Herein the success response may include URI information of a discovered resource. If a corresponding resource is not found the local SCL hosting SCL may send an error response to the issuer.

Meanwhile illustrates a case that 2 hop is needed to access a resource. For example in the case that i a local SCL SCL 1 an intermediate SCL SCL 2 and a hosting SCL SCL 3 are different from one another and ii an issuer may not directly communicate with the hosting SCL 2 hop may be required.

As described above with reference to at step S an issuer may send a resource access request to the local SCL SCL 1 in order to access a specific resource.

At step S the local SCL SCL 1 may perform a resource check procedure. More specifically the local SCL SCL 1 may determine whether the local SCL SCL 1 has the requested resource i.e. addressed resource .

At step S when the local SCL SCL 1 does not have the requested resource i.e. addressed resource the local SCL SCL 1 may determine to forward the resource access request. Particularly if the local SCL SCL 1 cannot directly communicate with the hosting SCL SCL 3 the local SCL SCL 1 may determine to forward the resource access request to the intermediate SCL SCL 2 e.g. NSCL preregistered in the local SCL SCL 1 .

At step S the local SCL SCL 1 may forward the resource access request to the intermediate SCL SCL 2 . Before forwarding the resource access request the local SCL SCL 1 may optionally check access rights and syntax.

At step S when receiving the resource access request the intermediate SCL SCL 2 may determine to forward the resource access request to the hosting SCL SCL y preregistered in the intermediate SCL SCL 2 .

At step S the intermediate SCL SCL 2 may forward the resource access request to the hosting SCL SCL 3 . Before forwarding the resource access request the intermediate SCL SCL 2 may optionally check access rights and syntax.

At step S the hosting SCL SCL 3 may check the access right s for a corresponding resource i.e. the requested resource . At step S if permitted the hosting SCL SCL 3 may access the requested resource and create a success response message for the issuer. Meanwhile if the issuer does not an access right the hosting SCL SCL 3 may create an error response.

At steps S S and S the hosting SCL SCL 3 may send a success response or an error response to the issuer through the intermediate SCL SCL 2 and the local SCL SCL 1 . In other words a success response or an error response from the hosting SCL SCL 3 may be sequentially forwarded to the SCLs SCL 2 SCL 1 and the issuer.

MM resource management apparatus in accordance with at least one embodiment may be included in at least one MM entity provided in a device and gateway domain and or a network domain. Alternatively MM resource management apparatus may be implemented as a separate independent entity. An MM resource management apparatus e.g. according to the present embodiment may perform a resource management in an MM network and include at least one hardware processor. More specifically at least one of constituent elements e.g. may be configured with a hardware processor. As shown in MM resource management apparatus may include monitoring processor analysis processor and virtual SCL creation processor .

Monitoring processor may collect attributes of resources associated with the MM network. In other embodiments monitoring processor may monitor whether announced resources exist at least one of i when an MM network is first constructed ii when the MM network is reconstructed due to addition deletion change of new MM devices i.e. when the architecture of the MM network is changed and iii when a request for resources from an issuer is generated and the issuer receives a corresponding response i.e. when call request and response processes are performed between the resources .

In this case when it is determined that the announced resources exist monitoring processor may collect attributes of the announced resources. In other embodiments analysis processor may collect attributes of resources associated with the MM network.

Analysis processor may analyze the collected attributes of the resources and create information on correlation between the resources. In other embodiments in the case that monitoring processor collects attributes of the announced resources analysis processor may analyze the collected attributes of the announced resources and create information on correlation between the announced resources. Hereinafter for convenience of descriptions correlation between the resources associated with the MM network will be described in more detail. However such correlation determination scheme may be identically applied to a case of determining correlations between the announced resources.

The correlation between resources which is analyzed by analysis processor may include correlation for reachability of each resource and or correlation for reusability of each resource. 

The correlation for the reachability of the resource may use reachability addressing and repository RAR among MM service capabilities SCs . That is analysis processor may collectively analyze mapping information a reachability and scheduling information with respect to MM entities e.g. MM devices and or MM gateways by using RARs of the MM entities. Herein the RAR may be an RAR according to the ETSI standard. Analysis processor may calculate correlations for reachability of resources based on the analysis results. The calculated correlations may indicate correlations associated with a situation in which a corresponding resource is used. The correlation for reachability of each resource may be calculated by a correlation coefficient formula as expressed in Equation 1 below.

Equation 1 above may be a correlation coefficient calculation formula based on an access history associated with each resource e.g. a history of accesses to each resource . In Equation 1 DRAR represents the number of returns or responses of a resource value and or a URI value requested by a GSCL or an NSCL attempting to access a corresponding MM device. GRAR represents the number of returns or responses of a resource value and or a URI value requested by a DSCL or an NSCL attempting to access a corresponding MM gateway. and represent average values of DRARs and GRARs respectively.

In addition analysis processor may analyze a reusability of each resource. In particular analysis processor may calculate correlation for reusability of each resource by using history and data retention HDR among MM service capabilities SCs . That is analysis processor may analyze an access frequency and or a call frequency associated with resources by using HDRs of MM devices and or MM gateways. Herein the HDR may be an HDR according to the ETSI standard. Analysis processor may calculate correlations for reusability of resources based on the analysis result. The calculated correlation may indicate a correlation for which resources of MM entities e.g. MM devices or MM gateways are interworked and how frequently the resources are used. The correlation for reusability of each resource may be calculated by a correlation coefficient formula as expressed in Equation 2 below.

Equation 2 above may be a correlation coefficient calculation formula based on a history of calls from other resources with respect to each resource. Assuming that each MM device e.g. device A is a resource DHDR represents how many other resources e.g. device B call a corresponding resource e.g. device A and or deliver values to the corresponding resource e.g. device A . Assuming that each gateway is a resource GHDR represents how many another resource calls a corresponding resource or delivers a value. and represent average values of DHDRs and GHDRs respectively.

In summary as described in Equation 1 a correlation coefficient for reachability of each resource may be calculated using reachability addressing and repository RAR e.g. DRAR GRAR among SCL capabilities of an MM device and an MM gateway. As described in Equation 2 a correlation coefficient for reachability and reusability of each resource may be calculated using history and data retention HDR e.g. DHDR GHDR among SCL capabilities of an MM device and an MM gateway. The correlation coefficient for reachability and the correlation coefficient for reachability may be calculated for each resource. However Equation 1 and Equation 2 are merely exemplary and it will be understood by those skilled in the art that known or other correlation coefficient formulas may also be used to calculate the correlation for reachability and reusability of resources.

Meanwhile virtual SCL creation processor may create a virtual service capability layer SCL based on correlation information created or calculated in analysis processor . Herein the created virtual SCL may reside in one or more MM entities e.g. an MM devices and or an MM gateway of a corresponding MM network. The resource structure of the virtual SCL will be described below in detail with reference to . Furthermore such creation operation of the virtual SCL will be described in more detail with reference to .

The virtual SCL may be configured to i receive a request message from an issuer ii select a substitute resource based on the correlation information when a resource associated with the request message is unavailable iii obtain location information on the selected substitute resource and iv transfer the request message to an SCL of the substitute resource by using the location information.

More specifically when a resource request i.e. a resource request message is generated from an issuer the virtual SCL may determine whether a resource response associated with the resource request is possible. When the resource response is possible the virtual SCL may obtain a location of a corresponding resource and directly forward the resource request to the corresponding resource. When the resource response is impossible a substitute resource may be determined based on correlation information created by analysis processor the virtual SCL may forward the resource request to the substitute resource. Such operations of the virtual SCL will be described in more detail with reference to and .

Like a typical resource structure the virtual SCL defined as may include a plurality of resources such as attribute scls applications groups accessRights and discovery. Attribute may include creationTime that is information on a creation time of a resource and lastModifiedTime that is information on last modified time.

Unlike the typical resource structure the virtual SCL in accordance with at least one embodiment may further include correlation resource . The correlation resource may include correlation of reachable and correlation of reusable as shown in . Herein the correlation of reachable may be associated with correlations for reachability of resources described in . The correlation of reusable may be associated with correlations for reusability of resources described in . For example the correlation of reachable and the correlation of reusable may include a URI for a corresponding correlation table. The correlation table may include correlation coefficient values for reachability and reusability of each resource .

Referring to at step S monitoring processor may monitor whether there are announced resources among resources associated with a corresponding MM network.

When the announced resources do not exist No S monitoring processor may repeat the monitoring process S until the announced resources exist. The announced resources may be managed in an announced to SCL.

At step S when the announced resources exist Yes S monitoring processor may collect attributes of the announced resources. In other embodiments monitoring processor may collect attributes of all or parts of resources associated with the corresponding MM network.

At step S analysis processor may obtain or create information e.g. correlation coefficient values on correlations between the announced resources based on the collected attributes. More specifically analysis processor may analyze the collected attributes of the announced resources and create information e.g. correlation coefficient values on correlations between the announced resources using the above described scheme e.g. Equation 1 and Equation 2 . Herein the correlation information may be created in a form of a table. Since a creation calculation operation of correlation information e.g. correlation coefficient values was already described with reference to the detailed descriptions thereof are omitted.

At step S virtual SCL creation processor may create a virtual SCL based on the correlation information obtained at step S. Herein the virtual SCL may store i the correlation information e.g. a correlation table or ii a URI of the correlation information so as to preferentially process a request from an issuer for MM resources. Since a creation operation of a virtual SCL and a resource structure of the virtual SCL were already described with reference to and the detailed descriptions thereof are omitted.

Furthermore the procedure shown in may be performed i when a corresponding MM network is reconstructed by addition deletion and change modification of MM devices or ii when a resource request message is generated from an issuer and a response message is received from an SCL of a corresponding resource through procedures of and . More specifically in these cases correlation information may be changed and thus an updated virtual SCL may be created by performing the procedure of again.

In the embodiment of correlations between the announced resources may be analyzed but the present embodiment is not limited thereto. In at least one embodiment the virtual SCL may be created with respect to all resources of the corresponding MM network.

At step S the virtual SCL created in may monitor whether a request message e.g. C R U D request for a specific resource is received from an issuer.

At step S when the request message is received from the issuer Yes S the virtual SCL may analyze information on the specific resource associated with the request message.

At step S the virtual SCL may determine whether the corresponding resource is available based on the analysis result of step S.

At step S when the corresponding resource is available Yes S the virtual SCL may forward the request message to an SCL of the corresponding resource. In this case the virtual SCL may also forward hop type information to a corresponding resource SCL. Herein the hop type information may be forwarded together in order to reduce a resource preparation time using location information of each resource collected by the virtual SCL. When the location information of the corresponding resource does not exist in the virtual SCL the hop type information cannot be provided at the first time. However if the corresponding resource is found hop type information on the corresponding resource may be accumulated. Therefore after that hop type information about the corresponding resource may be provided.

At step S the virtual SCL may monitor whether a response message e.g. a success message to the request message is received from the corresponding resource SCL.

When the virtual resource or the issuer receives the response message from the corresponding resource SCL Yes S the virtual SCL may end the procedure.

When the virtual resource or the issuer does not receive the response message from the corresponding SCL within a predetermined time No S the virtual SCL may proceed to the operations subsequent to step S i.e. the operations using a substitute resource .

Meanwhile when the resource associated with the request message is unavailable due to failures e.g. failure of a device or gateway itself a network failure and so forth No S the virtual SCL may perform operations S through S of forwarding the request message to the substitute resource.

More specifically at step S when the corresponding resource is unavailable due to failures Yes S the virtual SCL may retrieve substitute resource candidates using correlation information i stored in the virtual SCL or ii indicated by a URI stored in the virtual SCL. That is the virtual SCL may retrieve substitute resource candidates having correlation values higher than a minimum correlation value based on information on correlations between the requested resource and other resources. Herein the minimum correlation value may be previously set as an average value of correlation values between the entire resources but the present embodiment is not limited thereto. The minimum correlation may be an arbitrary correlation coefficient value previously set by an MM network operator or an MM service provider.

At step S the virtual SCL may determine whether at least one substitute resource candidate exists based on the retrieval result of operation S.

At step S when at least one substitute resource candidate exists Yes S the virtual SCL may determine a substitute resource candidate having the highest correlation as the substitute resource. In the case that both correlation coefficients for reachability of the resources and correlation coefficients for reusability of the resources are used to determine the substitute resource a priority between them may be determined according to an MM service type an MM network situation and or an MM service policy. In other embodiments the priority may be predetermined by an MM service provider or an MM network operator.

Meanwhile at step S when at least one substitute resource candidate does not exist No S the virtual SCL may send a fail message to an issuer. The case that the substitute resource cannot be found may include i the case that all the correlations to other resources are equal to or less than the minimum correlation value or ii the case that the corresponding resource cannot be called even though the resources equal to or higher than the minimum correlation value exists.

At step S the virtual SCL may forward the request message to a corresponding SCL of the determined substitute resource. In this case when receiving the request message from the virtual SCL the SCL of the substitute resource may send a corresponding response message to the virtual SCL and or the issuer. When the virtual SCL receives the response message from the SCL of the substitute resource Yes S the virtual SCL may ends the corresponding procedure.

When the virtual SCL does not receive the response message from the SCL of the substitute resource No S the virtual SCL may re determine a candidate having the second highest correlation as the substitute resource among the retrieved substitute resource candidates at steps S and S. Then the virtual SCL may perform the operations of S and S. The virtual SCL may perform the process of re determining the substitute resource until i the response message is received at step S or ii the operations of S through S are performed on all substitute resource candidates.

When the virtual SCL does not receive the response message even through the process of re determining the substitute resource the virtual SCL may send a fail message to the issuer at step S.

At step S an issuer may perform a discovery request for a specific resource. More specifically the issuer may request a virtual SCL to discover a specific resource. Herein the issuer is an actor performing a request. The issuer may be an application or an SCL. In this case the discovery request may be performed using a RETRIEVE method.

At step S when receiving the discovery request the virtual SCL may perform a local processing procedure using correlation information e.g. a correlation table . More specifically the virtual SCL may perform the local processing procedure using a table i.e. a correlation table regarding correlation between resources. The correlation table may be stored in the virtual SCL. That is the virtual SCL may retrieve a predetermined number of substitute resource candidates through the local processing procedure and select or determine a substitute resource from the retrieved substitute resource candidates. The virtual SCL may determine a plurality of substitute resource candidates according to correlation values. The virtual SCL may determine a substitute resource candidate having the greatest correlation value as the substitute resource.

At step S the virtual SCL may request an announced to SCL to send location information on the selected substitute resource. Herein the announced to SCL may have an announced resource associated with the substitute resource selected at step S. In accordance with another embodiment the virtual SCL may request the announced to SCL to send location information on all the substitute resource candidates selected at step S.

At step S the announced to SCL may send a response message to the virtual SCL. The response message may contain location information on the substitute resource. In accordance with another embodiment when the virtual SCL requests the announced to SCL to send the location information on all the substitute resource candidates the announced to SCL may send the response message containing the location information on all the substitute resource candidates.

At step S the virtual SCL may send a resource request message to an SCL hereinafter referred to as a target SCL corresponding to the location information on the substitute resource that is received from the announced to SCL. More specifically when the target SCL is a local SCL the virtual SCL may send the resource request message to the local SCL at step S. When the target SCL is an intermediate SCL the virtual SCL may send the resource request message to the intermediate SCL at step S. When the target SCL is a hosting SCL the virtual SCL may send the resource request message to the hosting SCL at step S. When the virtual SCL sends the resource request message to the target SCL the virtual SCL may send hop type information together with the resource request message i.e. a substitute resource request message . illustrates the case of directly sending the resource request message i.e. substitute resource request message from the virtual SCL to the corresponding target SCL. The resource request message i.e. substitute resource request message may be sent through the local SCL and or the intermediate SCL according to the hop type information. For example when the target SCL is a hosting SCL and the hop type information represents 2 hop the resource request message i.e. substitute resource request message may reach the hosting SCL through the local SCL and the intermediate SCL.

In other embodiments as described in operations S and S when the virtual SCL requests the location information on all the substitute resource candidates and receives the location information on all the substitute resource candidates from the announced to SCL the virtual SCL may send the resource request message associated with the corresponding substitute resource candidates in a broadcasting scheme.

At step S the corresponding target SCL may directly send a response message responding to the resource request message substitute resource request message to the issuer. As described in operation S each of steps Sthrough Smay be performed according to which one is the corresponding target SCL. In this case when the issuer does not receive the response message e.g. a success response message from the corresponding target SCL within a predetermined time the issuer may notify this to the virtual SCL. The virtual SCL may reselect a substitute resource having the second highest correlation value as the substitute resource among the substitute resource candidates determined at step S. The subsequent processes of steps S through S may be performed. The above procedures may be repeated until the issuer receives a response message e.g. a success response message from any one of the substitute resource candidates.

In other embodiments the corresponding target SCL may directly send the response message to the virtual SCL. In this case when the virtual resource does not receive the response message from the corresponding target SCL within a predetermined time the virtual SCL may reselect a substitute resource candidate having the second highest correlation as the substitute resource among the substitute resource candidates determined at step S. The subsequent processes of steps S through S may be performed.

In other embodiments when the virtual SCL sends the resource request message to the plurality of substitute resource candidates in a broadcasting scheme at step S the issuer or the virtual SCL may receive one or more response messages. In this case the issuer or the virtual SCL may select one of the received response messages. More specifically the issuer or the virtual SCL may select a response message of a candidate having higher order i.e. a candidate having higher correlation among the substitute resource candidates.

Hereinafter a home network security system in accordance with at least one embodiment will be described. For example the home network security system may include i an acoustic sensor for sensing a sound within a house ii an infrared sensor for sensing a motion of a person or an animal within the house iii an online monitor for monitoring information regarding the outside of the house and iv a video information monitor for recording a video of the house. The home network security system may include an MM gateway GSCL and a network application NA . The MM gateway GSCL may receive information from at least one of the acoustic sensor the infrared sensor the online monitor and the video information monitor and may transfer the received information to a server e.g. NSCL . The NA receives indoor monitoring information from the NSCL.

In the case that a failure occurs in an infrared sensor a typical home network security service using an infrared sensor is stopped until the failure of the infrared sensor is recovered. However in accordance with at least one embodiment as a result of the correlation coefficient analysis when it is determined that an acoustic sensor has a high correlation value to the infrared sensor and thus exhibits an effect similar to the infrared sensor data may be provided from the acoustic sensor instead of the infrared sensor. Therefore the home network security service according to the present embodiment may be provided stability without a service interruption.

With respect to e Health services correlations for use frequency and similarity of medical instruments may be previously grasped. Therefore when a patient receives e Health services using a plurality of medical instruments such as a pulsometer and an electrocardiograph a repetitively used instrument may be prepared to use a substitute resource immediately almost without preparation time.

As described above even in the case that a failure occurs in an MM network and or an MM device a service may be immediately provided using similar resources. In particular a virtual SCL may preferentially process a request for resources from an issuer considering correlation between resources in an MM network. According to the present embodiment a use frequency of resources may be considered in order to provide an efficient rapid MM service. In the case of a frequently used MM service a resource preparation time for providing a service may be effectively reduced thereby achieving improvement in the entire performance of an MM network.

In addition when a failure occurs in a specific instrument a substitutive instrument may be used immediately. Therefore a patient may receive a more stable medical service. Furthermore at least one embodiment of the present embodiment may implement the above described effects by applying or utilizing the functions proposed in the ETSI standard documents. Therefore without regard to a specific company or nation anyone may apply the present invention to any type of product as long as he she complies with the ETSI standard.

Reference herein to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiments. The same applies to the term implementation. 

As used in this application the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Additionally the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover the terms system component module interface model or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The present invention can be embodied in the form of methods and apparatuses for practicing those methods. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of program code embodied in tangible media non transitory media such as magnetic recording media optical recording media solid state memory floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a machine or transmitted over some transmission medium or carrier such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code segments combine with the processor to provide a unique device that operates analogously to specific logic circuits. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of a bitstream or other sequence of signal values electrically or optically transmitted through a medium stored magnetic field variations in a magnetic recording medium etc. generated using a method and or an apparatus of the present invention.

It should be understood that the steps of the exemplary methods set forth herein are not necessarily required to be performed in the order described and the order of the steps of such methods should be understood to be merely exemplary. Likewise additional steps may be included in such methods and certain steps may be omitted or combined in methods consistent with various embodiments of the present invention.

As used herein in reference to an element and a standard the term compatible means that the element communicates with other elements in a manner wholly or partially specified by the standard and would be recognized by other elements as sufficiently capable of communicating with the other elements in the manner specified by the standard. The compatible element does not need to operate internally in a manner specified by the standard.

No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or step for. 

Although embodiments of the present invention have been described herein it should be understood that the foregoing embodiments and advantages are merely examples and are not to be construed as limiting the present invention or the scope of the claims. Numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art that will fall within the spirit and scope of the principles of this disclosure and the present teaching can also be readily applied to other types of apparatuses. More particularly various variations and modifications are possible in the component parts and or arrangements of the subject combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure the drawings and the appended claims. In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts and or arrangements alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.

