---

title: Resource resolver
abstract: An automated resource resolver system receives a client request for a learning resource. The system selects a format for a target resource, to be delivered to the client device, based on user information and context information for the client device. Thus, the selected format will be accessible by the client device, utilizing the capabilities of the device, and will be the best-fit format for the user. After the system selects the format, the system determines whether the target resource stored at a resource repository is in the selected format. If not, then the system selects an instance of the target resource, not in the selected format, to convert to the selected format. The system converts the selected resource instance to produce an instance of the target resource that is in the selected format. The system makes the target learning resource, in the selected format, available to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576494&OS=09576494&RS=09576494
owner: Apollo Education Group, Inc.
number: 09576494
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140129
---
This application is related to copending application Ser. No. 13 007 147 titled Dynamically Recommending Learning Content filed Jan. 14 2011 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to selecting learning resources for user access and more specifically to selecting and delivering a learning resource in a resource format that is the best fit for a user based at least in part on user information and information indicating the context of the user s client device.

Many people would benefit from additional education but are not able to attend traditional institutions of learning. To serve people with such circumstances learning institutions make education opportunities available online via the Internet. Putting education opportunities online allows these opportunities to be accessed by a greater number of students than are able to attend classes at a traditional campus of an institution of learning.

Learning institutions spend valuable resources creating learning material to make available online. Such online learning material can stored in formats that take advantage of common capabilities of client computing systems such as Portable Document Format PDF readers video players audio players Adobe Flash players Java interpreters and other functionality with which a client device may be configured. However if a client device is not configured with particular technology required to access a particular format of learning material the user of the client device will not be able to access the learning material via the client device.

Furthermore all formats of educational content may not be suitable for all users e.g. given their disabilities or personal preference. For example a user that is hearing impaired may not benefit from educational content provided in audio format. Many times a user with a disability is not able to benefit from educational courses that are created for the general population of users and must instead take educational courses that are specially designed for users with that disability. Learning institutions may be required to spend extra time and effort to produce educational content that meets users special needs or personal preference.

Thus it would be beneficial to make educational content that is created for the general population of students more widely available i.e. to cater to specific capabilities of client devices and to the needs of individual users.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

An automated resource resolver system receives from a client device a request for learning resources which communicate learning material. The system selects a learning resource format for a target learning resource to be delivered to the client device based on user information and information about the context of the client device. Thus the selected resource format will be accessible by the client device utilizing the capabilities of the device and will be the best fit format for the user given the user information.

For example if the user information for a particular user indicates that the user has vision loss and the target resource is a video resource then the system selects an audio format for the target learning resource. As a further example if the user information for a particular user indicates that the user has both vision and hearing loss then the system selects a braille display format for the target learning resource.

After the system selects the resource format the system determines whether any instance of the target learning resource stored at a resource repository is in the selected resource format. If not then the system selects an instance of the target learning resource that is not in the selected resource format to convert to the selected resource format. The system converts the selected resource instance to produce an instance of the target learning resource that is in the selected format. The system makes the target learning resource in the selected format available to the client device.

Techniques are described hereafter for providing learning resources which communicate learning material to a requesting client device in a format that is selected based on user information and context information for the requesting client device. is a block diagram that depicts an example network arrangement for a resource resolver system that receives a request for a learning resource from a client device selects a resource format for the requested learning resource based on user information and context information for the client device and makes the requested resource in the selected format available to the client device as a response to the request.

Network arrangement includes a client device and server devices and communicatively coupled via a network . Server device is also communicatively coupled to a resource database and server device is communicatively coupled to a learning object database . Example network arrangement may include other devices including client devices server devices databases and display devices according to embodiments. For example one or more of the services attributed to any of server devices and herein may run on other server devices that are communicatively coupled to network including server devices depicted in and server devices that are not depicted in .

Client device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is communicatively connected to network . Example implementations of client device include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices such as smart phones and any other type of computing device.

In network arrangement client device is configured with a learning client a browser that displays a web page and a context client . Learning client and also context client may be implemented in any number of ways including as a plug in to browser as an application running in connection with web page as a stand alone application running on client device etc. Learning client and context client may be implemented by one or more logical modules.

Learning client is configured to communicate requests for learning resources to request processor service which is described in further detail below. Context client is configured to identify one or more aspects of the context of client device and make that information available to learning client and or request processor service . Browser is configured to interpret and display web pages that are received over network e.g. web page such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages eXtensible Markup Language XML pages etc. According to an embodiment learning client and or context client are configured to be used on a mobile device such as personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers cellular telephony devices etc. . For example context client is configured to detect that client device is a mobile device and learning client is configured to cause web pages being sent to browser to be configured for a mobile device display in response to receiving information from context client that client device is a mobile device. Client device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Further client device is communicatively coupled to a display device not shown in for displaying graphical user interfaces such as a graphical user interface of web page . Such a display device may be implemented by any type of device capable of displaying a graphical user interface. Example implementations of a display device include a monitor a screen a touch screen a projector a light display a display of a tablet computer a display of a telephony device a television a braille display device etc.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between client device and server devices and . Furthermore network may facilitate use of any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular embodiment.

Server devices and may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with other devices over network . In network arrangement server device is configured with a request processor service a resolver plugin service a resolver core service a response builder service and a rules manager service . In network arrangement server device is configured with a learning object service a profile service and a capability service . In network arrangement server device is configured with a content and metadata provider service and a usage learner and analyzer service . Server devices and may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionalities depending upon a particular implementation.

Server device is communicatively coupled to resource database and server device is communicatively coupled to learning object database . Resource database and or learning object database may reside in any type of storage including volatile and non volatile storage e.g. random access memory RAM one or more hard or floppy disks main memory etc. and may be implemented by one or more logical databases. The storage on which resource database resides may be external or internal to server device and the storage on which learning object database resides may be external or internal to server device . Furthermore while resource database and learning object database are depicted as distinct the databases may reside on the same device and may be managed by the same database management system.

One or more of services and may be part of a cloud computing service. Functionality attributed to one or more of these services may be performed by other services or clients depicted in network arrangement according to embodiments. Services and may variously be implemented by one or more logical modules and are described in further detail below. Any of learning client context client and services and may receive and respond to Application Programming Interface API calls Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messages requests via HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or any other kind of communication e.g. from one of the other services or from learning client or context client . Further any of learning client context client and services and may send one or more of the following over network to one of the other clients or services of the system information via HTTP HTTPS SMTP etc. XML data SOAP messages API calls and other communications according to embodiments.

In an embodiment each of the processes described in connection with one or more of learning client context client and services and are performed automatically and may be implemented using one or more computer programs other software elements and or digital logic in any of a general purpose computer or a special purpose computer while performing data retrieval transformation and storage operations that involve interacting with and transforming the physical state of memory of the computer.

Via an online education program a user may request learning resources in connection with a course of study e.g. as part of obtaining a degree from an institute of learning or as part of obtaining a skills certificate etc. A user may also request learning resources from an online education program that are unrelated to a course of study e.g. to learn a foreign spoken language a programming language how to grow a garden etc. Online education is accomplished by making digital learning resources available to users via the Internet.

A user may access a digital learning resource via a client device that is configured to allow access to the particular format of the digital learning resource. A particular resource format indicates the technology used to encode the one or more resource files. A user may access learning resources in a particular format via a client device such as client device when the client device has access to resources in the particular format i.e. the client device has applications running thereon that are configured to properly interpret resource information in the particular format. For example client device is configured with a PDF reader application such as Adobe PDF Reader which allows client device access to PDF files as such a user of client device may access the PDF files.

Learning client obtains the user information needed for the client request from the user login. For example upon the user initiating a session with learning client learning client authenticates the user by requesting user specific login information. The user specific login information provided by the user uniquely identifies the user to learning client . From this login information learning client determines the user s unique identifier which also uniquely identifies the user s profile information in the resource resolver system. Learning client includes the unique identifier of the user in the client request.

Learning client obtains the context information for client device needed for the client request from context client . Context client gathers this context information from client device and makes the information available to learning client . Client context information includes one or more of a type of client device a tablet a desktop computer a mobile phone etc. an operating system running on client device a type of network connection e.g. 3G 4G WiFi etc. information about the run time capabilities of the device a user agent for learning client e.g. stand alone application browser etc. a type of browser plugins available at browser specific resource formats that client device is configured to access Digital Rights Management DRM support capability to decrypt particular protected resource formats based on licensing agreements etc.

According to embodiments client device is configured with a DRM client that retrieves decryption keys from a server accessible via network . Such retrieved decryption keys are configured to decrypt encrypted content when the consuming user and or client device is authorized to access the encrypted content. Decryption keys automatically expire based at least in part on one or more of a time that a particular decryption key is retrieved authority of the consuming user and or client device to access the encrypted content etc. For example when the authority of the consuming user and or client device to access particular encrypted content is revoked by an authority granting entity an associated decryption key does not allow a access to the particular encrypted content.

Information about the run time capabilities of client device includes applications running or available at client device that allow client device to access resources that are in particular resource formats. According to an embodiment context client maintains a list of client applications that allow access to resources in particular resource formats. For example such a list includes one or more of the following 

According to an embodiment when gathering information about the run time capabilities of client device context client identifies and records in the client context information any applications from the list of client applications that are running or available on client device during the client session. According to another embodiment context client identifies and records in the client context information particular resource formats associated with applications from the list of client applications that are running or available on client device during the client session.

A user initiates a client session with learning client by logging into learning client and terminates the client session e.g. by logging out of learning client turning off client device etc. According to an embodiment when a user initiates a client session with learning client context client gathers information about the context of client device and stores the context information. In this embodiment context client keeps the client context information current by updating the stored context information upon detecting a change event in client device . Examples of change events include installation or removal of a run time application a change in the network connection for client device etc. According to another embodiment context client gathers context information for client device upon receiving information that learning client is formulating a client request. In this embodiment context client gathers fresh context information for each client request.

Context client makes the gathered context information available to learning client for at least partial inclusion in the client request. For example context client makes the client context information available by returning the client context information or a location of the client context information to learning client . As another example context client makes the client context information available at a location known to learning client and learning client retrieves the information directly from the known location. In this example context client also makes information indicating whether the client context information is up to date to learning client . Context client stores the context information for client device in an information cache on client device .

Learning client sends the generated client request to request processor service . According to an embodiment in response to receiving the client request request processor service sends a request for learning object information to learning object service . Learning object service identifies a learning object and associated learning resource for the client request from learning object database .

According to embodiments learning resources are organized via learning objects in learning object database . A learning object is a container for one or more learning resources which are configured to communicate learning material to teach a particular skill or learning goal associated with the learning object. Each learning object in learning object database is associated with at least one resource that communicates learning material for the learning object. A learning object also includes metadata for the one or more associated learning resources which metadata includes one or more of a location of a resource a unique identifier of a resource a format category of a resource whether a resource is a main resource for the learning object a name of a resource etc.

Learning object database stores information about how learning objects relate to courses of study to other learning objects etc. By associating learning resources with learning objects administrators may adjust the learning resources that are associated with particular learning objects e.g. to replace a learning resource with an updated version of the learning resource without requiring adjustment to relationships between learning objects. Also administrators may disseminate information identifying learning objects e.g. via learning client which information does not need to be updated when learning resources associated with the learning objects are replaced or updated.

According to a particular embodiment the client request is a request for a learning resource associated with a particular learning object. For example a user selects an identifier of a particular learning object displayed via web page . In response to detecting this selection learning client sends a client request for the identified learning object which client request includes the identifier of the learning object to request processor service . Learning object service identifies the requested learning object in learning object database based on the learning object identifier from the client request.

According to another embodiment the client request is a request for a learning resource associated with a learning object that furthers the user s current course of study where information for the learning object not included in the client request. For example learning client includes in a client request a request for a learning object that furthers the user s current course of study. In this embodiment in response to receiving information indicating the client request for a learning object that furthers the user s current course of study learning object service identifies a learning object for the client request based at least in part on one or more of goals of the user indicated in the user s profile e.g. the user s course of study a skill that the user has expressed interest in mastering etc. the user s demonstrated comprehension skills learning objects that the user has completed information about relationships between learning objects in learning object database etc.

After identifying a particular learning object learning object service identifies a particular learning resource associated with the identified learning object to make available to client device . According to an embodiment if there are multiple learning resources associated with a particular learning object and the user has not yet accessed any of the resources for the learning object learning object service identifies the main resource for the particular learning object as the resource to be made available to client device . The identified learning resource to be made available to client device is referred to herein as the target resource.

Learning object service returns to request processor service information for target learning resource. This information includes at least metadata indicating a format category for the target learning resource which is referred to herein as the target format category. A format category indicates a type of the resource and encompasses multiple resource formats. As such identifying a format category for a learning resource does not identify a particular resource format in which the resource is stored i.e. at resource database which is a repository for resource information. Rather identifying a format category for a learning resource identifies two or more resource formats in which the resource may be stored. Examples of format categories and encompassed resource formats include 

A subcategory of a format category is associated with a subset of resource formats in the format category. According to an embodiment a subcategory is not associated with resource formats from format categories other than the category for the subcategory. According to an embodiment a format category includes one or more resource formats that are not associated with a particular subcategory of the format category.

The resource formats associated with a format subcategory conform to one or more special requirements for the subcategory. For example subcategories of VIDEO include LOW BIT RATE VIDEO i.e. VIDEO resource formats that deliver a bit rate less than 128 kbits second HD VIDEO i.e. VIDEO resource formats that deliver a bit rate of at least 8 Mbits second VIDEO WITH CAPTIONS i.e. VIDEO resource formats that include subtitle capabilities etc. Herein reference to a format category is a shortened reference to a format category or subcategory unless explicitly indicated otherwise for ease of explanation.

According to an embodiment learning object service does not send information indicating a specific resource format for the target learning resource to request processor service . Because resolver core service identifies a best fit resource format for the client request regardless of the specific one or more resource formats in which the target resource is found in resource database information about a specific resource format in which the resource is stored is immaterial to the determination made by resolver core service as described in further detail below.

According to another embodiment learning object service includes information about a specific resource format for the target learning resource in the communication to request processor service . In this embodiment if the metadata for the target resource does not include a format category then resolver core service uses the specific resource format for the target resource to determine the format category for the resource. Resolver core service uses the format category in the determination of a best fit resource format for the client request. Nevertheless resolver core service identifies a best fit resource format for the client request regardless of the specific resource format for the target resource.

At step a format of the learning resource to deliver to the client device is selected based at least in part on the information identifying the particular user and the context information for the client device. For example request processor service sends to resolver core service the format category for the target resource and at least part of the user and client context information from the client request. Resolver core service selects which resource format is the best fit for the client request based on the received information.

Resolver core service requests the user s profile information from profile service based at least in part on the unique user identifier from the client request. According to embodiments a user s profile includes one or more of a user s preferences identified by explicit indications by the user e.g. the user prefers HD VIDEO the user prefers AUDIO over TEXT etc. historical user tendencies e.g. the user tends to fail to complete videos while the user is connected to the internet via a 3G connection etc. a preferred natural or spoken language for the user and disability information for the user e.g. explicit indications by the user of a disability given in context of previously delivered learning resources information gathered or inferred about the user that indicates a disability etc. .

Resolver core service also requests from capability service information about the resource formats that client device can access given the device context information in the client request. Capability service compiles a list of resource formats that client device can access based on a context information that indicates that client device can access particular resource formats and b information accessible by the service indicating specific resource formats that a device can access given particular device context information e.g. device type operating system etc. .

To illustrate capability service receives context information for client device that includes a type of a network connection a type of the device and an operating system running on the device. Capability service identifies a working list of resource formats that a device of the indicated type with the indicated operating system can access i.e. with a default run time configuration. According to an embodiment capability service maintains a list of applications that are run for the default run time configuration of a given type and operating system of a given device. Capability service also maintains information indicating resource formats that particular applications are configured to access. Capability service uses such information to determine the working list of resource formats that client device can access in a default run time configuration.

For example the context information for client device indicates that the device is a smart phone with the Apple iOS7 operating system installed thereon i.e. an iPhone iOS7. Capability service has information indicating that the default run time configuration of an iPhone iOS7 does not include an application that accesses resources in the Flash object resource format. As such capability service does not include Flash object in the working list of resource formats that client device can access.

According to a further embodiment capability service maintains information indicating resource formats that a device of a given type and operating system can access in the default run time configuration. Capability service creates the working list of resource formats that client device can access from the indicated resource formats for the configuration of client device .

According to embodiments capability service refines the working list of resource formats that client device can access based on further context information for client device . For example capability service refines the working list of resource formats that client device can access given a particular type of a network connection for client device . Capability service maintains information that associates the type of a network connection with an average throughput for the network connection. Capability service also maintains information indicating throughput needed to access particular resource formats. Based on this information capability service eliminates from the working list of resource formats generated for client device those resource formats that require more throughput than the network connection allows. As a further example if the network connection for client device handles only relatively low throughput then capability service determines that client device cannot access resource formats associated with the subcategory HD VIDEO which resource formats require more throughput than the network connection for client device allows. Consequently capability service removes resource formats associated with HD VIDEO from the working list of resource formats for client device .

Capability service also refines the working list of resource formats that client device is configured to access based on device context information that indicates particular applications running on client device and or one or more changes in the operating system kernel. For example if device context information of the previous example also includes a list of one or more applications capability service determines that resource formats accessible using the listed one or more applications should be added to the working list of resource formats for client device .

For example the context information for client device indicates that the device is a smart phone with the Apple iOS7 operating system installed thereon i.e. an iPhone iOS7. The context information further indicates that the run time configuration of client device includes a particular application that is not in the default configuration of an iPhone iOS7 e.g. the Photon Browser. Capability service has information that the Photon Browser accesses resource of the Flash object resource format. In this example capability service includes Flash object in the working list of resource formats that client device can access.

Capability service further refines the working list of resource formats that client device is configured to access based on device context information that indicates that an application that is normally included in the default run time configuration of client device is disabled or missing in client device . For example context information for client device indicating that a particular application is disabled which would normally be enabled in a default run time configuration of the device causes capability service to remove from the working list of resource formats for client device those resource formats that the disabled application accesses unless another application running on the device can access those resource formats.

Once capability service has processed all of the client context information capability service sends the final version of the working list of resource formats that client device is configured to access to resolver core service .

Resolver core service selects a resource format for the target resource that is the best fit for the user based on one or more of the target format category the information gathered from profile service and the information gathered from capability service . If user profile information indicates an explicit user preference that is applicable for the target resource resolver core service uses the preference information to select the best fit format for the target resource. Otherwise resolver core service uses the format category information for the target resource and any disability information for the user to determine candidate format categories for delivering the target resource. Resolver core service uses the client context information and further information from the user s profile to narrow down multiple candidate format categories to a selected format category for delivering the target resource. Resolver core service then identifies one or more best fit resource formats for the target resource that are accessible by client device based on the client capabilities information.

According to embodiments resolver core service first determines whether explicit user preference data in the user s profile or client request identifies a particular resource format that the user prefers when receiving a resource of the target resource category. An explicit user preference is an indication by the user of a user preference that is stored at the user profile. If such user preference information indicates a resource format that client device can access according to the client capabilities information then resolver core service selects the preferred resource format as the resource format for delivery of the target resource.

For example the target format category is VIDEO and explicit user preference information in the user s profile indicates that the user prefers the resource format MP4 when receiving a VIDEO resource. The resource format MP4 is in the list of resources that client device can access. In this example resolver core service selects MP4 as the resource format for delivering the target resource to client device .

As a further example explicit user preference information indicates that a user prefers that the resource resolver system perform no conversion on the target resource which preference is not subject to a current override. Resolver core service retrieves from content and metadata provider service a list of resource formats in which the target resource is stored at resource database . Resolver core service determines whether client device can access any of resource formats in which the target resource is stored. If there is only a single resource format from the list that client device can access then resolver core service identifies the accessible resource format as the selected resource format for the target resource. If there are multiple resource formats that client device can access from the list resolver core service identifies the best fit resource format based on device capabilities as described below and selects the best fit resource format for the target resource.

If resolver core service determines that client device cannot access any of the resource formats in which the target resource is stored at resource database then resolver core service causes response builder service to formulate a response that indicates that the target resource is undeliverable unless the user grants permission convert the target resource to a resource format accessible by client device . If the user gives permission for conversion then learning client causes profile service to record a temporary or permanent override to the explicit preference for no converted resources and sends another client request to request processor service .

According to a particular embodiment indication of a specific preferred resource format for the target format category causes resolver core service to skip determination of candidate categories described below and to forward the selected resource format to resolver plugin service .

According to another embodiment resolver core service selects a specific resource format based on the explicit user preference information as described above and also identifies a second specific resource format using rules that are specific to the target format category as described below. In this embodiment learning client receives information for both selected resource formats and presents the user with information requesting selection of a particular resource format in which to access the target learning resource. As such the resource resolver system provides the user with the ability to choose something different than the user chose before while giving the user easy access to the user s previously preferred resource format.

According to yet another embodiment resolver core service determines whether explicit user preference data in the user s profile identifies one or more particular format categories that the user prefers when receiving a resource of the target resource category. For example the target format category is VIDEO and explicit user preference information in the user s profile indicates that the user prefers HD VIDEO VIDEO WITH CAPTIONS AUDIO and or TEXT.

If the user preference information indicates multiple format categories that the user prefers for receiving the target format category then resolver core service identifies those preferred format categories that have associated resource formats that client device can access to be candidate format categories which are processed as described in further detail below. If the user preference information indicates a single preferred format category and client device can access at least one resource format associated with the preferred format category then resolver core service identifies the preferred format category to be the selected format category which is processed as described in further detail below. If client device cannot access any resource format associated with any of the preferred format categories then resolver core service identifies further candidate categories using rules associated with the target format category as described below.

In order to identify a resource format that best fits the user information and client capabilities information for client device resolver core service identifies a set of one or more candidate format categories for the target resource using a set of rules that are specific to the target format category. Resolver core service has access to a repository of sets of rules for each format category associated with resources in resource database . The rules in a particular set of rules identify one or more candidate format categories for delivering a resource of the associated format category that would best fit particular user disability information. For example a set of rules that are specific to the VIDEO format category are as follows 

Resolver core service identifies a particular rule from a set of rules specific to the target format category that most closely fits the user s disability information. For example resolver core service has information indicating that the user has a single one of the disabilities indicated in the set of rules specific to the target format category. In this example resolver core service applies the rule that indicates the single disability.

As a further example resolver core service has information indicating that the user has multiple of the disabilities indicated in rules specific to the target format category. In this example resolver core service finds any overlap in the candidate categories indicated by the multiple rules. For example using the rules for VIDEO indicated above if a user is both vision and hearing impaired then resolver core service identifies that the subcategory MAGNIFIABLE TEXT is common to both the rule for vision impairment and the rule for hearing impairment since the hearing impairment rule includes TEXT and the vision impairment rule includes MAGNIFIABLE TEXT which is a subcategory of TEXT. Resolver core service identifies this common subcategory is the candidate category.

If there is no overlap in the candidate categories indicated by the multiple applicable rules then resolver core service determines whether the metadata for each of the candidate categories identified by the multiple rules indicates that the category is helpful for all of the disabilities of the user or if the category is contraindicated for a user with one of the disabilities of the user. According to an embodiment resolver core service creates a single set of candidate categories from those categories indicated by the multiple rules that are helpful for a user with all of the disabilities of the user and or are not contraindicated for all of the disabilities of the user. Resolver core service processes the set of candidate categories as indicated below. According to another embodiment resolver core service identifies multiple sets of candidate categories one from each of the rules that are applicable to the user other than the default rule removing from the sets any candidate category that in contraindicated for any of the disabilities of the user. Resolver core service processes each set of candidate categories as indicated below.

Resolver core service eliminates from the set of candidate categories any format category that client device cannot access i.e. that is not associated with a resource format that client device can access . For example based on the rules for a video resource and given information that the user is hearing impaired resolver core service identifies the candidate categories for delivering the target resource to be MAGNIFIABLE TEXT BRAILLE DISPLAY and AUDIO. Resolver core service determines that client device cannot access resource of the BRAILLE DISPLAY category. In response to such determination resolver core service removes BRAILLE DISPLAY from the set of candidate categories.

According to an embodiment rules manager service manages the repository of sets of rules for each format category associated with resources in resource database . For example rules manager service retrieves usage information from usage learner and analyzer service which information includes trends of resource categories that are delivered to and or consumed by users with particular user attributes e.g. vision impaired etc. . Rules manager service adjusts rules in the repository based on the retrieved information e.g. using machine learning.

To illustrate rules manager service receives information indicating that in at least a threshold percentage of instances where a target category is VIDEO and a user is vision impaired the user explicitly prefers to receive an instance of the VIDEO resource that includes both visual and audio components i.e. to receive an instance of a VIDEO resource in a VIDEO format. In response to receiving this information rules manager service automatically adjusts a set of rules for the format category VIDEO to include VIDEO in the set of candidate categories for when the user is vision impaired.

Resolver core service processes each set of candidate format categories by selecting a particular candidate format category for each set of candidate format categories. If multiple candidate format categories in a particular set of candidate categories are identified for delivering the target resource resolver core service utilizes further user information to identify a particular resource format category for the user if further user information is available. According to an embodiment resolver core service utilizes explicit user preference information to aid in selecting a particular candidate category of a set of candidate categories. For example resolver core service identifies the set of MAGNIFIABLE TEXT and AUDIO as the candidate resource format categories. Resolver core service determines that the user s profile includes an explicit indication that the user prefers to have AUDIO delivered when the target format category is VIDEO. Since AUDIO is one of the candidate resource format categories resolver core service identifies AUDIO to be the selected format category for delivering the target resource to client device based on the user preference information. In this embodiment resolver core service does not use the explicit user preference information if the user preference information indicates a preference for a category or specific resource format that is not included in the set of candidate format categories.

According to an embodiment resolver core service utilizes information indicating historical user tendencies stored in the user profile to identify a particular format category from a set of candidate format categories. Historical user tendencies are trends in how a user has historically behaved when interacting with the resource resolver system. According to an embodiment a historical user tendency is recorded when a particular behavior is noted more than a threshold percentage of the time when the behavior is a possibility. Resolver core service utilizes historical user tendency information to select a candidate format category for the target resource. For example resolver core service identifies the candidate categories for delivering the target resource to be MAGNIFIABLE TEXT BRAILLE DISPLAY and AUDIO. Further resolver core service determines that the user s profile information indicates that the user prefers TEXT resources or resources that are in a resource format associated with the TEXT format category over any other kind of resource for a threshold percentage of instances in which the user is presented a choice that includes TEXT resources. In this example resolver core service selects MAGNIFIABLE TEXT as the format category for delivering the target resource to client device based on the historical user tendency to select TEXT resources.

According to an embodiment trends in historical user behavior will not cause resolver core service to select a format category that is not a member of the set of identified candidate categories. For example the user s profile information indicates that the user generally prefers SIMULATION resources and the candidate categories are TEXT and VIDEO WITH CAPTIONS. Since SIMULATION is not one of the candidate categories resolver core service does not use this trend information to choose a candidate format category for delivering the target resource.

As yet another example the user s profile information indicates that the user prefers AUDIO resources when the user is on a mobile phone type client device and TEXT resources when the user is on a desktop type client device. Resolver core service identifies the candidate categories to be MAGNIFIABLE TEXT BRAILLE DISPLAY and AUDIO. In this example both TEXT and AUDIO format categories are in the set of candidate categories. As such resolver core service determines what type of client device is indicated in the client context information. If the client context information indicates that the user is on a mobile phone type device then resolver core service selects AUDIO to be the format category for delivering the target learning resource to client device . Further if the user is on a desktop type device then resolver core service selects MAGNIFIABLE TEXT to be the format category for delivering the target learning resource.

Resolver core service may also use information indicating historical user tendencies to narrow a format category which has been selected by resolver core service for delivery of the target resource to a subcategory of the format category. For example resolver core service identifies VIDEO to be the format category for delivering the target resource to client device . Information in the user s profile indicates that the user tends to consume resources of the subcategory HD VIDEO over other subcategories of VIDEO. Resolver core service determines whether client device can access at least one resource format associated with HD VIDEO i.e. from the information from capability service . If client device can access at least one resource format associated with HD VIDEO then resolver core service selects HD VIDEO as the subcategory for delivering the target resource to client device .

According to embodiments resolver core service includes resource format selection rules that can override other information including information from the user s profile e.g. explicit user preferences historical user behavior etc. when selecting a format category subcategory or particular resource format for delivering a resource to a client device. For example resolver core service identifies VIDEO to be the format category for delivering the target resource to client device . Information in the user s profile indicates that the user tends to consume resources of the subcategory LOW BIT RATE VIDEO over other subcategories of VIDEO. Resolver core service identifies a resource format selection rule that states that the highest bit rate of VIDEO should be delivered to the user regardless of the user s historical user behavior. Based on this rule resolver core service identifies the highest bit rate of VIDEO that client device can access i.e. from the information from capability service . Resolver core service selects a subcategory of VIDEO or particular resource format associated with VIDEO that has the highest bit rate that client device can access and selects that subcategory or resource format for delivering the target resource to client device .

Furthermore resolver core service may identify a particular format category from the candidate format categories based on ranking information for the candidate format categories. For example an administrator may indicate within metadata for the format categories an order in which format categories are preferred for a user with particular disability information. To illustrate an administrator includes in metadata for format categories that AUDIO is ranked 1 for vision impaired users BRAILLE DISPLAY is ranked 2 and TEXT is ranked 3. Additional ranking information may be included in format category metadata for other disabilities such as hearing impairment ADHD dyslexia etc. Such ranking may be based on information about how users with the disability learn best. Such rankings may also be based on user feedback and automatically adjusted by the resource resolver system etc.

Once resolver core service has selected a particular format category from each set of candidate format categories resolver core service identifies a specific resource format for each of the selected format categories. Resolver core service identifies a particular resource format for a selected format category by selecting the resource format from the category that is the best fit for client device based at least in part on the information from capability service . Resolver core service identifies the one or more resource formats from the selected format category that client device can access based on the capabilities information for client device .

According to an embodiment if client device can access multiple resource formats from a selected format category then resolver core service identifies the resource format for the target resource based on ranks of the resource formats that client device can access. For example an administrator includes in metadata for the resource formats associated with each format category rank information that ranks each resource format among the other resource formats for the category. Such rank information may be based on which resource format is the most popular for users from user feedback which resource format is the most efficient to deliver or store which resource format provides the best educational opportunities for users etc.

In this embodiment resolver core service selects the resource format that is most highly ranked within the multiple resource formats. For example the candidate format category is VIDEO and client device can access the following resource formats associated with VIDEO MOV ranked 1 MP4 ranked 3 and FLV ranked 7 . Based on the ranks of the accessible resource formats resolver core service selects MOV as the resource format for the target resource because MOV is the most highly ranked of the accessible resource formats.

According to embodiments resolver core service identifies a resource format for each selected candidate category and compiles information on the selected resource format from each selected category for delivery to resolver plugin service as indicated below.

Returning to flowchart of at step after selecting the format of the learning resource to deliver to the client device it is determined whether the learning resource is stored at a resource repository in the selected format. For example resolver core service forwards information about the one or more selected resource formats to resolver plugin service to determine whether the target resource is stored at resource database in the one or more selected resource formats.

Resolver plugin service or one or more selected resolver plugins of the set of resolver plugins A N requests information about the target resource from content and metadata provider CMP service . CMP service provides access to resource database by receiving and responding to requests for information about particular resources and to requests for the resources themselves. CMP service responds to the request for information about the target resource with information i.e. from resource database that includes one or more of resource formats in which the target resource is stored locations of instances of the target resource data files that encode the data of one or more target resource instances title description author runtime etc.

Resolver plugin service or the one or more selected resolver plugins determines whether the target resource is stored in the one or more selected resource formats in resource database from the information received from CMP service . In response to determining that the target resource is stored in the one or more selected resource formats in resource database resolver plugin service forwards information for the one or more instances of the target resource in the one or more selected resource formats to response builder service as described in further detail below.

At step of flowchart in response to determining that the learning resource is not stored at the resource repository in the selected format the following steps are performed select an instance of the learning resource which is in a format other than the selected format from the resource repository and convert the selected instance of the learning resource to a converted instance of the learning resource in the selected format. For example resolver plugin service selects a particular resolver plugin of the set of resolver plugins A N to process the target resource for a particular selected resource format. If resolver plugin service or a selected resolver plugin determines that the target resource is not stored in resource database in the particular selected resource format then processing by the plugin includes converting a particular instance of the target resource that the plugin selects into an instance of the target resource in the particular selected resource format.

Resolver plugin service manages a set of two or more resolver plugins A N each of which correspond to a corresponding format category or more specifically to a corresponding resource format. A resolver plugin is configured to interface with CMP service and to process resources for the corresponding format category or resource format. If a particular resource plugin is configured to process resources for a corresponding format category resolver plugin service sends information to the particular resource plugin with a request to process a resource indicating a particular resource format for which the resource is to be processed. For purposes of explanation below the particular resource plugin corresponds to the resource format for which resolver plugin service has sent the plugin instructions.

To process a particular resource a particular plugin requests information about the particular resource from CMP service . The plugin uses information received from CMP service to select a particular instance of the particular resource to either a make available to client device in the case that the plugin is tasked with identifying whether the particular resource is stored in resource database in the resource format that corresponds to the plugin or b convert to a converted instance of the particular resource in the resource format that corresponds to the plugin to make available to client device . In the case that a plugin is tasked with identifying whether the particular resource is stored in resource database in a resource format that corresponds to the plugin the plugin is configured to identify an instance of the particular resource that is in the resource format that corresponds to the plugin.

To process the target resource for the particular selected resource format resolver plugin service selects a particular resolver plugin from the set of two or more resolver plugins A N that corresponds to the particular selected resource format. This selection is simply a selection of the corresponding plugin if only one resolver plugin corresponds to the particular selected resource format or to a format category that is associated with the particular selected resource format. However multiple resolver plugins of the set of resolver plugins A N may be configured to process the same format category or resource format.

Each plugin of multiple resolver plugins that correspond to the same resource format or format category are registered with resolver plugin service as part of a particular plugin group. To register a resolver plugin as part of a plugin group an administrator adds a group identifier for the plugin group to registration information for the resolver plugin maintained by resolver plugin service . Each plugin associated with a particular plugin group is also associated with rank information that ranks the plugin among the other plugins in the particular group.

Resolver plugin service identifies a particular plugin to process a resource for a selected resource format from a group of plugins based on the rank information i.e. resolver plugin service selects the plugin with the highest rank in the group of plugins that correspond to the selected resource format. Group plugin rank information may be provided by an administrator. According to an embodiment resolver plugin service automatically sets and or updates rank information based on information indicating the plugins respective suitability for processing resources for the corresponding resource format e.g. from user feedback administrator feedback etc. In an embodiment rank information is further qualified by a resource format or format category of the resource to be processed. As such rank information may be different depending on the resource format or format category of the resource to be processed. Furthermore resolver plugin service may be configured to select a lower ranked plugin over a higher ranked plugin a certain percentage of the time in order to get feedback information on how the lower ranked plugin performs.

To illustrate a resolver plugin converting an instance of the target resource into a particular selected resource format resolver plugin service selects resolver plugin A which corresponds to a selected resource format to process the target resource for a particular selected resource format. For example resolver core service has selected MOV as the resource format for the target resource.

Resolver plugin A requests information about the target resource from CMP service which returns information indicating resource formats in which the target resource is stored. For example CMP service returns information indicating that two instances of the target resource are stored in resource database as the resource formats MPEG and FLV respectively. Resolver plugin A determines whether the target resource is stored in resource database in the selected resource format i.e. MOV. In this example the target resource is not stored in resource database as an MOV.

In response to determining that the target resource is not stored in resource database as an MOV resolver plugin A selects an instance of the resource indicated in the information from CMP service to convert to a converted instance of the target resource in the resource format MOV. In the case that resolver plugin A has the capability to convert MPEG resource instances to MOV format but not FLV resource instances to MOV format resolver plugin A selects the instance of the target resource that is in the convertible resource format i.e. MPEG. According to embodiments a plugin to converts resource instances from one resource format to another format via a conversion engine to which the plugin has access. Metadata associated with a conversion engine includes information indicating one or more of one or more resource formats that are convertible by the engine rank information that ranks multiple convertible resource formats by ease of conversion using the resource formats one or more resource formats that the conversion engine can produce etc.

In the case that resolver plugin A can use multiple of the stored formats to convert to MOV then resolver plugin A uses selection rules and or rank information associated with the multiple convertible resource formats to choose a particular instance of the target resource in a convertible resource format for converting to the selected format. For example resolver plugin A includes information e.g. in metadata for a conversion engine that ranks MPEG as 1 easiest to convert and FLV 2 easiest to convert. In this example resolver plugin A selects the instance of the target resource that is in the MPEG resource format to convert to an MOV resource instance based on the rank information for the convertible resource formats.

Resolver plugin A performs conversion of the selected instance of the target resource to an instance of the target resource in the selected resource format e.g. via a conversion engine. Continuing with the previous example resolver plugin A converts the instance of the target resource that is in the MPEG resource format to a converted instance of the target resource in the MOV resource format. Resolver plugin A sends information for the converted resource instance to resolver plugin service which forwards the information for the converted resource instance to response builder service .

As a further example resolver core service has selected MOV with closed captioning to be the resource format for the target resource. Resolver plugin service selects a resolver plugin of the set of resolver plugins A N that corresponds to MOV with closed captioning e.g. plugin N. Plugin N performs conversion of a target resource instance to MOV format as described above. Additionally in response to determining that the selected instance does not include information for closed captioning plugin N converts the audio from the selected instance to subtitles i.e. using an AUDIO to TEXT conversion engine and includes that information in the converted target resource instance.

The examples above involve converting VIDEO resources to other resource formats in the VIDEO format category. However plugins may be used to convert resources in resource formats associated with a particular format category into resource formats associated with a different format category. According to an embodiment a plugin that is configured to process resources for a resource format associated with a particular format category is configured to convert instances of a resource that are in resource formats that correspond to a different format category or to the particular format category into the corresponding resource format.

In the case that resolver core service has selected multiple resource formats in which the target resource is to be made available to client device then resolver plugin service selects a plugin of the set of plugins A N for each of the selected resource formats to process the target resource for each of the multiple selected resource formats. In this case resolver plugin service receives information from each selected plugin indicating a particular instance of the target resource to forward to response builder service .

An administrator may add or remove plugins from the set of resolver plugins A N via resolver plugin service e.g. at run time. For example resolver plugin service maintains registration information for each resolver plugin in the set of resolver plugins A N. An administrator may add a new resolver plugin to the set of resolver plugins A N by making the new resolver plugin accessible to resolver plugin service and registering information for the new resolver plugin with resolver plugin service . Registering information for a resolver plugin includes providing information about the plugin to resolver plugin service including one or more of a plugin name a format category or resource format that the plugin is configured to process a group identifier for the plugin rank information for the plugin etc. A newly registered resolver plugin is available for processing resources without restarting the system or any part of the system i.e. at the next request for processing a resource that resolver plugin service receives after registering the new resolver plugin.

At step of flowchart the learning resource in the selected format is made available to the client device by making the converted instance of the learning resource available to the client device. For example resolver plugin service receives information identifying one or more instances of the target resource in one or more selected resource formats from one or more plugins of the set of resolver plugins A N. Resolver plugin service sends information identifying the one or more instances of the target resource to response builder service . Response builder service generates a response to the client request based on the received information which response includes one or more of location s at which learning client may access the one or more target resource instances identifier s that uniquely identify the one or more target resource instances to CMP service etc. Response builder service sends the generated response to learning client on client device thereby making the one or more instances of the target resource available for learning client to access i.e. via CMP service .

To illustrate response builder service receives information from resolver plugin service identifying a converted instance of the target resource with a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the instance of the target resource to CMP service . Resolver plugin service may include other information in the communication to response builder service e.g. the resource format of the target resource a name of the target resource etc. Response builder service generates a response to the client request that includes at least the unique identifier of the target resource instance and sends the response to learning client . Learning client submits a request for a resource instance identified by the unique identifier of the target resource instance to CMP service for retrieval. In response to this request CMP service makes the target resource instance available to client device for access by forwarding to learning client any information needed for client device to access the target resource instance via an appropriate application or other mechanism.

As another illustration response builder service receives information for two or more instances of the target resource with a corresponding unique identifiers that uniquely identify the instances of the target resource to CMP service and b a resource format of each resource instance. Response builder service generates a response to the client request that includes the unique identifiers of the target resource instances and the resource formats of the target resource instances and sends the response to learning client .

Learning client displays information requesting selection by a user of a particular resource instance of the two or more instances of the target resource e.g. via web page . Learning client receives information indication user selection of a particular resource instance of the two or more resource instances. In response to receiving such information learning client submits a request for the selected resource instance with the unique identifier of the selected resource instance to CMP service for retrieval. In response to this request CMP service makes the selected target resource instance available to client device for access by forwarding to learning client any information needed for client device to access the target resource instance via an appropriate application or other mechanism.

When a user accesses a particular resource instance via CMP service CMP service sends information about the user activity to usage learner and analyzer ULA service . ULA service also receives information about user activity directly from learning client e.g. based on a set of user activity recording rules. For example a particular user activity recording rule indicates that learning client should send to ULA service information about a particular type of activity any time learning client detects the activity. To illustrate a particular type of activity may be magnification of text over a certain percentage failure of a user to complete a resource with related client context information such as a network connection type etc.

ULA service determines what information to store in the user s profile based on one or more storage rules and what information to analyze from the profile and information received about user activity based on one or more inference rules. Thus ULA service causes profile service to store historical user activity information which includes one or more of requests made by a user explicit indications of preference made by the user selections made by the user e.g. of particular resource formats timestamps associated with user activity completion of learning resources partial completion of learning resources the result of analysis performed on user activity information both historical and present indications of favored or disfavored resource formats or format categories etc.

For example at times response builder service sends information for two or more resource formats to learning client for presentation to the user. ULA service receives information indicating at least the resource formats presented to the user for selection and the resource format that the user selected. ULA service may also receive information indicating the target format category of the requested resource and other information. Based on a storage rule ULA service causes profile service to record the indication of user preference embodied in the user s resource format selection.

According to an embodiment ULA service uses received information to identify historical user tendencies. A historical user tendency is identified when a particular behavior is noted more than a threshold percentage of the time when the behavior is a possibility which threshold percentage is indicated in an inference rule. To identify a historical user tendency ULA service requests historical user activity information from profile service for inclusion in the analysis. Continuing with the previous example based at least in part on the user s selection of a particular resource format and on an inference rule ULA service identifies a trend of user preference for the particular resource format over the other presented resource format. ULA service causes the identified historical user tendency to be stored by profile service .

ULA service also records client context information indicating one or more aspects of the client context at the time that particular information is noted. Such information informs under what circumstances the user made particular decisions or exhibited particular behaviors. ULA service may identify particular aspects of client context that affect historical user trends or user preferences. For example ULA service determines that the user consistently prefers HD VIDEO when the user is on a 4G network or a WiFi network and low bit rate video when the user is on a 3G network. ULA service causes at least the network type to be stored as part of the historical user behavior data in the user s profile based on a storage rule which allows ULA service to consider at least that aspect of client context when analyzing historical user tendencies or trends. Furthermore ULA service may determine that a user favors a particular format category or resource format no matter the client context.

Further ULA service infers information about a user s disabilities from received information and or information stored in the user s profile. For example ULA service determines a historical user trend that in over a threshold percentage of similar situations the user prefers VIDEO or AUDIO resources over TEXT resources. ULA service infers based on an inference rule and the identified historical user trend that there is a likelihood that the user has a reading disability. ULA service then identifies another historical user trend indicating that the user scores significantly better on quizzes over material presented in a VIDEO or an IMAGE format than on quizzes over material presented in a TEXT format. From this second identified historical user trend and the previously determined likelihood that the user has a reading disability and further based on a second inference rule ULA service determines that the likelihood of the user having a reading disability is significant. In response to this determination ULA service causes profile service to record a reading disability in the user s profile.

According to an embodiment a user may request all possible formats of a particular resource. For example learning client may infer such a user request from a user request to change the format of an accessed learning resource. In this embodiment resolver plugin service polls all of the plugins of the set of resolver plugins A N to identify a list of all possible resource formats for the particular resource. For example resolver plugin service sends a request to resolver plugin A for information identifying which resource formats resolver plugin A could produce for the particular resource. Resolver plugin A requests information for the particular resource from CMP service as indicated above and compiles a list of resource formats into which resolver plugin A could convert the particular resource based on the resource formats in which the particular resource is stored at resource database . Resolver plugin A forwards this list to resolver plugin service .

Resolver plugin service compiles all of the resource formats into which the set of resolver plugins A N could convert the particular resource including the resource formats in which the particular resource is stored in resource database into a master resource format list. Resolver plugin service sends this list as a master resource format list to response builder service . Response builder service sends the list to learning client as a response to the client request.

Learning client displays the list of resource formats e.g. via web page . In response to receiving information indicating user selection of a particular format of the list of resource formats learning client generates a client request requesting the particular resource in the selected resource format and sends the new client request to request processor service . Request processor service processes the new client request for the particular resource in the indicated resource format as indicated above.

Furthermore a response generated by response builder service may include information about related resource formats that are accessible by client device . For example response builder service may include in a response information about all instances of the target resource that are stored at resource database and that are accessible by client device . Such a response may indicate which of the included instances is a recommended resource instance i.e. a resource instance that is in a selected resource format. As indicated above learning client may present the multiple indicated resource formats to the user for selection prior to accessing any instance of the target resource. Furthermore after accessing a recommended instance of the target learning resource learning client may present information for all instances of the target resource that are stored at resource database in resource formats that are accessible by client device in response to a request by the user to change the format of the accessed target resource.

According to an embodiment when a particular resource is presented to a user via an AUDIO format client device receives any user input via a speech recognition mechanism. For example learning client sends a request for a particular assessment resource to request processor service and receives a response from response builder service with information for an AUDIO format of the assessment resource. Client device accesses the assessment resource in the AUDIO format. When the assessment resource requires user input i.e. answers to assessment questions client device activates a mechanism for speech recognition through which the user may submit the user input. Similarly client device receives user input i.e. discussion thread posts via a speech recognition mechanism when a discussion thread is accessed in AUDIO format.

According to embodiments the resource resolver system further customizes a resource that is to be delivered to a user based on a preferred natural language i.e. a spoken language for the user. For example resolver core service identifies information indicating a preferred natural language for a user in the user s profile information. Resolver core service sends information indicating the user s preferred natural language to resolver plugin service . After resolver plugin service selects one or more plugins to process the target resource and receives information for one or more instances of the target resource in the one or more selected resource formats resolver plugin service determines whether the one or more instances of the target resource are in the preferred natural language for the user.

According to embodiments if an instance of the target resource of a selected resource format for which resolver plugin service has received information is not in the preferred natural language of the user resolver plugin service determines via CMP service whether the target resource in the selected resource format is stored at resource database . If so resolver plugin service selects the instance of the target resource in the selected resource format and in the preferred natural language to deliver to the user and forwards information for that resource instance to response builder service .

According to embodiments if an instance of the target resource in a selected resource format for which resolver plugin service has received information is not in the preferred natural language of the user resolver plugin service identifies a plugin from the set of resolver plugins A N to translate the instance of the target resource into the user s preferred natural language. For example resolver plugin service identifies a plugin B as capable of translating the instance of the target resource in the instance s resource format from the natural language of the resource instance to the user s preferred natural language. Resolver plugin service forwards information identifying the translated instance of the target resource to response builder service .

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

