---

title: Automatic re-loading air-sampling and pneumatic transport system
abstract: Embodiments of the invention collect solid, vapor, and/or biological components of the air in air-sampling cartridges that are then transported to an off-site location by pneumatic pressure. Operation proceeds by first collecting a sample of air in an air-sampling cartridge in a sampling position, then rotating a wheel assembly to move the now-used sampling cartridge into a transport position while simultaneously moving an unused sampling cartridge into the sampling position, and finally using pneumatic pressure to push the used sampling cartridge in the transport position to an off-site location via a transport tube. The sampling operation can begin again while the transport operation is in still in progress. These operations can be pre-programmed locally or triggered by remote communication. Continued operation is possible due to a plurality of unused air-sampling cartridges retained in the wheel assembly. Since operations can be triggered remotely and air samples are autonomously transported off site, embodiments of this invention eliminate an unnecessary risk to human health that is created by other air-sampling devices, which require an operator to be present at a potentially hazardous sampling site to activate the device or retrieve air samples. Additionally, embodiments of the invention can be installed pre-emptively to eliminate the risk to human health that is created when an operator must deliver a portable air-sampling device to a potentially contaminated sampling site. Furthermore, embodiments of the invention allow rapid retrieval of air samples following sample collection, which can expedite analysis and identification of aerosols and consequently help minimize human exposure to potentially dangerous and life-threatening chemical and biological contaminants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09341547&OS=09341547&RS=09341547
owner: 
number: 09341547
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140822
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 959 659 filed Aug. 29 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention is related to the field of air sampling. More particularly the present invention is related to systems that automatically collect samples of air and transport those samples away from the sampling site during continued and uninterrupted operation.

Systems that sample air for aerosols including suspensions of solid or liquid particles have been used in a wide range of applications. For example systems have been used to sample and analyze vehicle exhaust to ensure conformance with state pollution regulations. Systems have also been used to analyze the air surrounding suspected targets of biological warfare in order to identify hazardous airborne microorganisms such as anthrax and determine appropriate medical responses. The Environmental Protection Agency routinely samples air around the United States not only to monitor atmospheric levels of ozone and carbon monoxide but to also collect representative samples of airborne biological and radiological contaminants. Since aerosols are typically diffuse in the air it is often necessary to first concentrate air samples on a sampling medium before analysis can be performed.

In order to concentrate aerosols many air sampling devices pull air through or over a filter or other sampling medium over a period of time. While some sampling media can selectively concentrate specific aerosols other sampling media concentrate many aerosols collectively to be separated and analyzed later. Some air sampling devices can analyze collected samples autonomously while others require the samples to be retrieved for off site analysis at a laboratory. The utility of air sampling devices that can analyze samples autonomously is often constrained by costly and delicate instrumentation needed for specialized analysis of the air samples. For example coupling a gas chromatograph mass spectrometer GC MS to an air sampling device would allow many aerosols to be identified at the molecular level but would require a significant investment. GC MS machines cost up to several hundred thousand dollars and may not be cost effective given the limited scope of analysis in the field. Furthermore such a combination would require extensive calibration by a qualified technician prior to each use to ensure accurate analysis as transport alone could cause significant analytical variation in the results. A known example of such a system is the microfluidic bio agent autonomous networked detector M BAND produced by PositiveID Corporation which was at first considered for use in the Department of Homeland Security s BioWatch program but recently abandoned due to high costs frequent false positive results and frequently required maintenance. A more practical and more cost effective approach separates sample collection from analysis but requires air samples to be retrieved from the sampling site and transported off site to a laboratory.

All known air sampling devices that collect and store air samples require an operator to retrieve air samples from the device at the sampling site. For example the Portable Multi Tube Air Sampler Unit disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 196 479 encases multiple air sample collection tubes into a portable container and requires an operator not only to deliver and activate the device at the sampling site but also later to return in order to retrieve the entire unit including the air samples contained within.

The Automatic Multi Sorbent Tube Air Sampler AMTAS disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 477 906 can be installed at a sampling site to later collect air samples autonomously but also requires an operator to retrieve the air samples whenever analysis is needed. Although the AMTAS is capable of allowing individual air samples to be removed during continued operation the Portable Multi Tube Air Sampler Unit and most other air sampling devices require an operator to wait until the end of operation before the collected air samples can be retrieved.

Despite the benefits provided by the prior art systems they nevertheless fall short of providing a system that eliminates the necessity for an operator to be present at the sampling site either for the retrieval of all air samples at the end of operation or for the retrieval of individual air samples during continued operation. Instead prior art systems require a human operator to enter the sampling site wearing appropriate personal protective equipment PPE and risk contamination to install the device activate collection and retrieve air samples. Additionally prior art systems fall short of providing a system where samples can be rapidly retrieved from an air sampling system while allowing its continued concurrent sampling operation and instead rely on a human operator to retrieve samples at the end of operation or to interrupt operation to retrieve samples prior to the end of operation.

This Summary is provided to introduce certain concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended in any way to limit the scope of the claimed invention.

Embodiments of the invention can sample aerosols by utilizing a vacuum pump to pull ambient air through an inlet tube and an aligned air sampling cartridge then subsequently align the cartridge with an outlet tube and transport it through the outlet tube to a remote destination using pneumatic pressure supplied by a compressor.

Embodiments of the invention can utilize air sampling cartridges containing one or more sampling media designed to collect and concentrate a number of different aerosols. For example an air sampling cartridge containing fibrous membranous and or perforated solid media can concentrate and collect solid airborne particulates whereas an air sampling cartridge containing an adsorbent such as activated charcoal can concentrate and collect vapors. Embodiments of the invention can also utilize an air sampling cartridge comprising a combination of two or more sampling media to collect combinations of aerosols simultaneously.

Embodiments of the invention have a sampling position which is a location between an inlet tube and a vacuum tube that can be occupied by any one of a plurality of chambers and where an air sampling cartridge can collect aerosols from ambient air. Additionally embodiments of the invention have a transport position which is a location between an outlet tube and a compressor line that can be occupied by any one of a plurality of chambers and where an air sampling cartridge is subjected to pneumatic pressure to be transported away from the device in a transport tube.

Embodiments of the invention can arrange a plurality of chambers for retaining air sampling cartridges in a circular pattern in a wheel assembly and can utilize a rotation mechanism such as a Geneva drive to rotate the wheel assembly and change the positions of the plurality of chambers. In such embodiments the rotation mechanism can also hold the wheel assembly in position while an air sample is taken in an unused air sampling cartridge at the sampling position while at the same time a used air sampling cartridge at the transport position is subjected to pneumatic pressure and transported to a remote destination.

Alternatively embodiments of the invention can arrange the plurality of chambers in a linear arrangement in a rectangular assembly and can utilize a translation mechanism such as a piston or solenoid to change the positions of the plurality of chambers. In such embodiments the translation mechanism can also hold the rectangular assembly in position while an air sample is taken in an unused air sampling cartridge at the sampling position and while a used air sampling cartridge at the transport position is subjected to pneumatic pressure and transported to a remote destination.

Yet another embodiment of the invention can move an air sampling cartridge from a storage compartment to a sampling position and then subsequently to a transport position. In such an embodiment the storage compartment and sampling position can be separated by a first gate or other dividing mechanism that creates a substantially airtight seal around the air sampling cartridge in the sampling position. Additionally the sampling position and transport position can be separated by a second gate or other dividing mechanism that creates a substantially airtight seal around the air sampling cartridge in the transport position.

Embodiments of the invention can require manual loading of air sampling cartridges into the plurality of chambers prior to operation for example by using a hand held push tool while other embodiments of the invention can utilize a magazine of unused air sampling cartridges and can load said unused cartridges into empty chambers by automated mechanical means known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Embodiments of the invention can autonomously align a first one of the plurality of chambers retaining an air sampling cartridge into the sampling position while simultaneously aligning a second one of the plurality of chambers into the transport position. Said autonomous rotation can be triggered by a pre programmed set of instructions or on demand via remote communication. Said remote operation can be facilitated through wired or wireless communication any distance from the device such as through a communications device directly interfaced with the system or through a communications device connected to a local area network or intranet or on a communications device anywhere in the world connected to the Internet or similar network.

Embodiments of the invention can form a substantially airtight inlet seal among the vacuum pump inlet tube and chamber at the sampling position by using a first pair of spring loaded double lipped cups biased against opposite faces of the wheel assembly. Similarly a embodiments of the invention can form a substantially airtight outlet seal among the compressor outlet tube and chamber at the transport position by using second pair of spring loaded double lipped cups biased against opposite faces of the wheel assembly.

Embodiments of the invention can utilize a vacuum pump to pull ambient air through an air sampling cartridge retained in the chamber at the sampling position and can utilize a compressor to apply pneumatic pressure to an air sampling cartridge retained in the chamber at the transport position thereby transporting said air sampling cartridge through tubes to a remote destination which can be up to several miles away. Such embodiments can utilize both the vacuum pump and compressor simultaneously to allow simultaneous sampling operation and transport operation.

Embodiments of the invention can perform both vacuum and pressurizing functions with a single compressor. Three way ball valves or other valves can alternately switch air pathways between sampling operation and transport operation to allow a single compressor to perform both vacuum and pressurizing functions.

Embodiments of the invention can incorporate radiological chemical and or biological detectors to analyze samples within the air sampling cartridges before they are transported to a remote destination. Before transport an air sampling cartridge can be aligned with a detector at an analysis position where an air sample can be analyzed within the air sampling cartridge while still loaded in a chamber.

Embodiments of the invention can add a pressure transducer connected to the compressor line to measure air pressure in the compressor line and connected components such as the aligned chamber at the transport position and the outlet tube and also connected to the vacuum line to measure air pressure in the vacuum line and connected components such as the aligned chamber at the sampling position and the inlet tube. In such embodiments of the invention the pressure transducer is in communication with a controller or communications board and can relay air pressure data to a remote site.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In an embodiment of the invention air sampling cartridge can be a rigid hollow cylinder with a media pad on at least one end. Media pad can comprise any of a variety of sampling media including fibrous membranous and or perforated media as well as an adsorbent and or gel based media depending on a variety of factors including the intended aerosol to be analyzed. Other embodiments of the invention can use solid air sampling cartridges comprising a matrix of media including fiber such as cellulose without a separate media pad . In still other embodiments of the invention air sampling cartridge can be a rigid hollow cylinder that is filled with sampling media including fibrous membranous and or perforated solid media as well as adsorbents and or gel based media.

Some embodiments of the invention can attach an end cap to the vacuum side of air sampling cartridge . An end cap can also be optionally attached to the vacuum side of media pad or the vacuum side of air sampling cartridge if media pad is not used . An end cap could be made of material such as Mylar film and could optionally include cut flaps that open during the sampling operation to allow airflow through the sampling media and then close during the transport operation to provide resistance against pneumatic pressure supplied by the compressor .

A rocker switch can cut power to the on off switch when triggered by the cam and thereby stop rotation of the cam and consequently hold the wheel assembly in position. A current sensor in communication with a controller can detect which electrical circuits connected to the Geneva drive motor are energized in order for the controller to reactivate the Geneva drive motor through the on off switch . A manual switch can allow an operator to manually trigger the Geneva drive motor for loading air sampling cartridges or maintenance if necessary.

The front seal assembly forms a substantially airtight seal between the inlet tube and the front face of the wheel assembly while allowing free rotation of the wheel assembly by biasing a double lipped cup with a wave spring washer positioned between the double lipped cup and an O ring adjacent to a front backing plate . The front seal assembly also forms a substantially airtight seal between the outlet tube and the front face of the wheel assembly while allowing free rotation of the wheel assembly by biasing a double lipped cup with a wave spring washer positioned between the double lipped cup and an O ring adjacent to the front backing plate .

The rear backing plate has a projection to retain the double lipped cups wave spring washers and O rings . The front backing plate has a projection to retain the double lipped cups wave spring washers and O rings .

The rear wheel mount has a cutaway to allow the projection of the rear backing plate to pass through and approach the rear face of the wheel assembly . The front wheel mount has a cutaway to allow the projection of the front backing plate to pass through and approach the front face of the wheel assembly .

Network interface s may comprise any device system or subsystem or component that is capable of coupling an information device to a network and or transmitting or receiving information. For example a network interface can comprise a telephone cellular phone cellular modem telephone data modem fax modem wireless transceiver RF transceiver Bluetooth transceiver WiFi transceiver wireless broadband transceiver WiMAX Ethernet circuit cable modem digital subscriber line interface bridge hub router or other similar capability.

Memory ies can be any type of apparatus known in the art that is capable of storing analog or digital information such as instructions and or data. Examples include a non volatile or read only memory ROM volatile or random access memory RAM flash memory various types of magnetic memory media and the like. Memory ies can be coupled to one or more processor s and can store instructions and logic adapted to be executed by one or more processor s as according to any of the embodiments disclosed herein.

Processor s may comprise one or more devices for executing machine readable instructions that perform one or more predetermined tasks. Processor s can comprise any one or a combination of hardware firmware and or software. In general processor s can utilize mechanical pneumatic hydraulic electrical magnetic optical informational chemical and or biological principles signals and or inputs to perform tasks. In certain embodiments processor s can receive information from input device s . In certain embodiments processor s can act upon information including received information by manipulating analyzing modifying converting transmitting the information for use by an executable procedure and or an information device and or routing the information to output device s . Processor s can function as a central processing unit local controller remote controller parallel controller and or distributed controller etc. Processor s can include a general purpose device such as a microcontroller and or a microprocessor. In certain embodiments processor s can be a dedicated special purpose device such as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Processor s can also be an integrated circuit that has been designed to implement in hardware and or firmware at least a part of an embodiment disclosed herein. Processor s can also include a hardware electronic logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit and or a programmable logic device such as a Programmable Logic Controller PLC or the like.

Instructions and logic may comprise directions adapted to cause a machine such as computing device to perform one or more particular activities operations or functions. The directions which can sometimes form an entity called a kernel operating system program application utility subroutine script macro file project module library class object or Application Programming Interface etc. can be embodied as machine code source code object code compiled code assembled code interpretable code and or executable code etc. in hardware firmware and or software. Instructions and logic may reside in processor s in memory ies or in another specialized device s or component s . Instructions and logic may also be embedded in an external computer readable storage medium or device which when loaded into computing device is able to carry out the different control instructions steps and methods described herein.

Input device s may comprise any traditional input device known in the art such as a button dial or switch and may also include any sensory oriented input device known in the art such as an audio visual haptic olfactory and or taste oriented device including for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball joystick gamepad wheel touchpad touch panel pointing device microphone speaker video camera camera scanner printer haptic device vibrator tactile simulator and or tactile pad potentially including a port to which an input device can be attached or connected. Input device s may also comprise any sensor known in the art that can measure physical spatial parameters including vibrations acceleration and direction of motion.

Output device s may comprise any output device known in the art such as for example a monitor display projector overhead display printer switch relay solenoid light producing device audio or sound producing device or vibrator potentially including a port to which output device s can be attached or connected.

Computing device may be used accessed programmed controlled manipulated or directed through a user interface. The user interface may comprise any means for rendering information to a user and or requesting information from the user. A user interface includes at least one of textual graphical audio video animation and or haptic elements. A textual element can be provided for example by a printer monitor display projector etc. A graphical element can be provided for example via a monitor display projector and or visual indication device such as a light flag beacon etc. An audio element can be provided for example via a speaker microphone and or other sound generating and or receiving device. A video element or animation element can be provided for example via a monitor display projector and or other visual device. A haptic element can be provided for example via a very low frequency speaker vibrator tactile stimulator tactile pad simulator keyboard keypad mouse trackball joystick gamepad wheel touchpad touch panel pointing device and or other haptic device etc. A user interface can include one or more textual elements such as for example one or more letters number symbols etc. A user interface can include one or more graphical elements such as for example an image photograph drawing icon window title bar panel sheet tab drawer matrix table form calendar outline view frame dialog box static text text box list pick list pop up list pull down list menu tool bar dock check box radio button hyperlink browser button control palette preview panel color wheel dial slider scroll bar cursor status bar stepper and or progress indicator etc. A textual and or graphical element can be used for selecting programming adjusting changing specifying etc. an appearance background color background style border style border thickness foreground color font font style font size alignment line spacing indent maximum data length validation query cursor type pointer type auto sizing position and or dimension etc. A user interface can include one or more audio elements such as for example a volume control pitch control speed control voice selector and or one or more elements for controlling audio play speed pause fast forward reverse etc. A user interface can include one or more video elements such as for example elements controlling video play speed pause fast forward reverse zoom in zoom out rotate and or tilt etc. A user interface can include one or more animation elements such as for example elements controlling animation play pause fast forward reverse zoom in zoom out rotate tilt color intensity speed frequency appearance etc. A user interface can include one or more haptic elements such as for example elements utilizing tactile stimulus force pressure vibration motion displacement temperature etc.

Power module s may comprise one or more devices for providing electrical power to various the components of computing device . Power module s may include one or more battery cells or other power supplies any number of which can be electrically connected together. Some or all of the battery cells may be rechargeable. Power module s may also include a power input to receive input power from a power source and a power output to provide output power to another device including another power module .

Embodiments of the invention can utilize computing device to provide autonomous or manual assisted control over various operations of automatic re loading air sampling and pneumatic transport system . Said operation can include but is not limited to receiving electronic communications and commands via Ethernet jack controlling Geneva drive motor activating and terminating operation of vacuum pump activating and terminating operation of compressor and three way valves and as explained above.

In addition to the illustrated embodiments one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that an alternative embodiment of the invention can include a detection system such that air samples can be analyzed after collection but prior to transport that is while an air sampling cartridge is still retained in a chamber of the wheel assembly . Such a detection system can be located between the sampling and transport positions but may also be located at another position along the wheel assembly . Such alternative embodiments of the invention can include detectors to detect specific chemical compounds biological components and or radiological emissions from an air sample.

The foregoing disclosure has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and is not intended to be limiting. It will be appreciated that modifications variations and additional embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention. Other logic may also be provided as part of the exemplary embodiments but are left out here so as not to obfuscate the present invention. Since modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art the invention should be construed to include everything within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

