---

title: Methods and systems for managing and automating user customization of a device based on observed user behavior
abstract: A method for managing and automating user customization of a device based on observed user behavior is disclosed. First, the method collects data on the user's activities on a device for a period of time. Second, the method learns about the user's behavior for routine repetitive operations by analyzing the user's activities data. Third, the method generates automation settings of the device based on the user's behavior for routine repetitive and predictive operations, and then presents the automation settings of the device to the user for customization of the device. These automation settings help to make the device operate more efficiently and more conveniently for the user, because they help perform the user's own routine repetitive operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619756&OS=09619756&RS=09619756
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09619756
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140114
---
The described embodiments relate generally to methods and systems for user customization of a device and more particularly to methods and systems for managing and automating user customization of a device based on observed user behavior.

A user for an electronic device such as a smart phone can create preference settings to perform routine repetitive custom operations. These preference settings can be implemented as automation settings where each automation setting corresponds to an automated workflow of operations. As an example a device can have an automation setting that is triggered at 7 00 am in the morning to execute an audio alarm to wake up a user. These automation settings can help the device operate more efficiently as well as help make the device more convenient for the user to use.

At the same time it is possible to determine some of these routine repetitive custom operations by observing a user s behavior for a period of time. In this regard people are used to some regular routine in parts of their life. For example people wake up and go to sleep around a regular time. People go to work at a specific location during a specific time frame as well as perform some other predictable routine activities such as watching a television show during a particular time slot in the week. There can be changes in life so that a person might change to a different routine. But usually a person follows some constant routine for a period of time. After that period of time which can be a number of days or perhaps even a number of years the person might adapt a new routine and then follow that routine for a new period of time.

Therefore it is desirable to have a method for observing and learning about a user s behavior for routine repetitive operations by analyzing data collected on the user s routine activities for a period of time and to use the user s behavior learned for managing and automating customization of a device.

This specification describes various embodiments that relate to methods and systems for managing and automating user customization of a device based on observed user behavior. In one embodiment the method can include three steps. First the method collects data on the user s activities on a device for a period of time. Second the method learns about the user s behavior for routine repetitive operations by analyzing the user s activities data. Third the method generates an automation setting of the device based on the user s behavior for routine repetitive operations and then presents the automation setting of the device to the user for customization of the device.

The above method can be better understood by providing some details and examples. As for the first step of collecting data the method can collect data of user activities based on the user s routine behavior of using certain options or turning on off certain options on a device e.g. turn off phone ringing . The activities data collected can also include time location or some other significant variables so the dependence of the activities on these variables can be determined. As an example phone ringing can be turned off for certain time period e.g. during Monday 8 am 9 am weekly meeting and location e.g. at work . As for the second step of learning about the user s behavior background software can be used to collect compute and analyze data for a given period of time. In particular the method can collect data for 50 or 100 repetitive operations e.g. 50 or 100 times of turning off phone ringing or the method can collect data for a certain number of days e.g. collect data for three weeks . In the third step the method generates an automation setting e.g. turn off phone ringing during Monday 8 am 9 am weekly meeting of the device based on the user s behavior and then presents the automation setting of the device to the user for customization of the device. In particular the method can present the automation setting to the user as a workflow or a pictorial flow chart of operation e.g. if time is Monday 8 am 9 am then turn off phone ringing . Then the user can accept the automation setting with a single swipe or further fine tune the automation setting e.g. change the automation setting to be if time is Monday 8 am 9 am and the location is at work then turn off phone ringing before accepting it.

In summary methods and systems disclosed can utilize software logics to help user and user device adapt to changes providing the user with pre built automated operation workflow to create preference settings on the user device. The methods and systems disclosed include the ability to record learn and analyze user behavior using user activities operations performed on the user device. The methods and systems disclosed give user the options for automatically generating automation settings for performing the user s own routine repetitive custom operations with the goal of greater convenience for the user and more efficient use of the user device.

In one embodiment a method for managing and automating customization of a device based on learning about a user s behavior is disclosed. The method includes collecting data on the user s activities learning about the user s behavior by analyzing the data on the user s activities generating an automation setting of the device based on the user s behavior and presenting the automation setting of the device to the user for customizing the device. In one embodiment the method includes collecting data of the user s activities based on the user s usual behavior of using options on the device or turning on off options on the device. In one embodiment the method includes collecting data of the user s activities that includes one or more of the following variables time location and a device state. In one embodiment the automation setting of the device includes a workflow of operations that is automated based on the user s activities. In one embodiment the method further includes implementing the automation setting of the device after the user accepts the automation setting. In another embodiment the method further includes implementing the automation setting of the device after the user fine tunes the automation setting.

In one embodiment a device that manages and automates customization based on learning about a user s behavior is disclosed. The device includes a processor and a memory storing computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor causes the processor to collect data on the user s activities learn about the user s behavior by analyzing the data on the user s activities generate an automation setting of the device based on the user s behavior and present the automation setting of the device to the user for customizing the device. In one embodiment the device collects data on the user s activities for a period of time. In one embodiment the automation setting of the device includes a workflow of operations that is automated based on the user s activities. In one embodiment the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor further causes the processor to implement the automation setting of the device after the user accepts the automation setting. In another embodiment the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor further causes the processor to implement the automation setting of the device after the user fine tunes the automation setting.

In one embodiment a computer program product encoded in a non transitory computer readable medium for managing and automating customization of a device based on learning about a user s behavior is disclosed. The computer program product includes computer code for collecting data on the user s activities computer code for learning about the user s behavior by analyzing the data on the user s activities computer code for generating an automation setting of the device based on the user s behavior and computer code for presenting the automation setting of the device to the user for customizing the device. In one embodiment the computer program product includes computer code for collecting data on the user s activities for a period of time. In one embodiment the automation setting of the device includes a workflow of operations that is automated based on the user s activities. In one embodiment the computer program product further includes computer code for implementing the automation setting of the device after the user accepts the automation setting. In another embodiment the computer program product further includes computer code for implementing the automation setting of the device after the user fine tunes the automation setting.

Representative applications of methods and apparatus according to the present application are described in this section. These examples are being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the described embodiments. It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that the described embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the described embodiments. Other applications are possible such that the following examples should not be taken as limiting.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in accordance with the described embodiments. Although these embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to practice the described embodiments it is understood that these examples are not limiting such that other embodiments may be used and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the described embodiments.

After step the user has to decide whether the presented automation setting is to be accepted fine tuned or rejected. The various possibilities are shown in . As shown in the method begins after an automation setting of a device is presented to a user for customizing the device i.e. step of . Then at step the user decides whether to accept the automation setting of a device that is presented. If the answer is yes then the method proceeds to step where the method implements the automation setting of the device after the user accepts the automation setting. If the answer is no then the method proceeds to step where the user decides whether to fine tune the automation setting of the device that is presented. If the answer is yes then the method proceed to step where the method implements the automation setting of the device after the user fine tunes the automation setting. If the answer is no then the method proceeds to step where the method does not implement the automation setting that is presented.

The right combination of triggers and actions can help to make a device operate more efficiently and more conveniently for the user. As an example in one embodiment the triggers can include time location and a device state. In another embodiment the triggers can include location time frame battery level charging display headphones incoming call e.g. for a phone device missed call e.g. for a phone device WiFi connection Bluetooth connection and motion detector. In one embodiment the actions can include WiFi connect or disconnect Bluetooth connect or disconnect background sync Airplane mode i.e. enable to suspend phone calls and text messaging cellular data turn on off send text message send notification play a playlist ringer volume ringtone wallpaper launch application launch website display website brightness and GPS. As such many combinations of triggers and actions are possible. For example if the trigger battery level is low then the action can be to turn off the WiFi connection or some other battery saving operations. As another example the triggers of motion detector and GPS can be used to detect that a user is in a car commuting then the action can be to turn on the Bluetooth connection to an on car speaker to listen to music or to an on car device for hands free calling.

As an example the method of can be used for managing and automating customization of a device in the following simple example scenario. For instance a user goes to the same work school location every morning Monday to Friday at a similar time say 8 am and then comes back home every night at a similar time say 6 pm . The user also sleeps and wakes up at substantially the same times say sleeping from 11 pm to 7 am . For this user after collecting the user s activities data for a given number of days say two weeks the method can learn that the times for leaving and coming back home are 8 am and 5 pm as well as the fact that the user goes to the work school location every Monday to Friday. If the user further always turns on the WiFi connection at home then the method can learn the user s behavior for turning on the WiFi connection at home. The method can then generate an automation setting that triggers the operation of turning on WiFi connection when the device clock indicates that it is 6 pm which is when the user is back home and the GPS Global Positioning System which is the location detector indicates that the device is at home. Alternatively the automation setting can also be triggered by only the time or by only the location. Further data collection and analysis can indicate that the user turns off WiFi while sleeping but is okay with 3G 3rd generation or 4G 4th generation data connection turned on while sleeping. The collected data further shows that the user wakes up in the morning with the WiFi connection turn on together with an audio alarm. But the user turns off the WiFi connection once the user leaves the house. All these aspects of the user behavior can be identified by their regularity as evidenced by the data collected. After learning about these regular aspects of the user behavior the method can generate automation settings for these regular aspects. As for the triggering parameters it can either be time based or location based or both time and location based. Each of these triggering settings i.e. time or location or time and location can have its advantages or disadvantages. For example if on some day the user is working at home during the commute time then a time trigger would turn off the WiFi whereas a location trigger would still keep the WiFi turned on. Therefore the user might want to use a location trigger together with a time trigger. In other words if the generated automation setting is only presented with a time trigger then the user might want to add a location trigger to the automation setting.

In one embodiment device can be used to implement the method shown in . When used in this manner device will first collect data on a user s activities to observe and learn about the user s behavior. Then one or more automation settings can be generated by device based on the user s behavior and presented to the user for customizing the device. As such the user interface shown in can be automatically generated and presented to the user for customizing device . Then the user can accept the presented automation setting by clicking on the enabled button .

In one embodiment involving an icon view an icon can represent one automation setting presented to the user for customizing the device. In another embodiment an icon can represent a link to a group of automation settings presented to the user for customizing the device. When an icon represents one automation setting the user can select the automation setting associated with the icon by clicking on the icon. In one embodiment clicking on the icon enables the automation setting. In another embodiment clicking on the icon does not enable the automation setting so the enabling has to occur through some other means. When an icon represents a group of automation settings the user can select the group of automation settings associated with the icon by clicking on the icon. Then the group of automation settings can be presented to the user for the user to select the automation settings that will be enabled.

For the step of collecting data on the user s activities as shown in step of there can be many ways to collect the data. shows two embodiments for collecting this data but other embodiments are also possible e.g. using a combination of a given period of time and a given number of repetitive operations . Embodiment one is illustrated by steps and while embodiment two is illustrated by steps and . In embodiment one the method begins at step where the method starts collecting data on the user s activities. Then at step the method collects data on the user s activities for a given period of time i.e. for a given number of hours or days or weeks or months . For example this given period of time can be for three weeks. Meanwhile background software can be used to collect compute and analyze this data. As an example the data collected might show that an audio alarm is to be set every weekday i.e. Monday to Friday morning at 7 am. Presumably observing and learning for a long period of time e.g. three weeks would be sufficient to understand the user s behavior with regards to some routine operations e.g. setting an audio alarm . Initially this period of time can be preset to a default value. Then the user or the method through intelligent analysis logic can have the option of setting it to a new value. In embodiment two the method begins at step where the method starts collecting data on the user s activities. Then at step the method collects data on the user s activities for a given number of repetitive operations. For example this can be a repetitive operation of turning off phone ringing and the device might be set to collect data for 50 repetitive operations e.g. 50 times of turning off phone ringing . Meanwhile background software can be used to collect compute and analyze this data. As an example the data collected might show that the phone ringing is to be turned off during a certain time e.g. during Monday 8 am to 9 am meeting time or when the device is at a certain place e.g. at work at the theater in court . Presumably observing and learning from a large number e.g. 50 times of these repetitive operations would be sufficient to understand the user s behavior with regards to this operation e.g. turning off phone ringing . Initially this number of repetitive operations can be preset to a default value say 50. Then the user or the method through intelligent analysis logic can have the option of setting it to a new value. In one embodiment this number of repetitive operations can be just a set point for the method to present proposed automation settings to the user for approval to implement on the device since the method can continue to accumulate data of the repetitive operations for analysis. However the method can also be intelligent to detect possible changes in user behavior so the accumulation of the data should start afresh at points when the user behavior has changed e.g. user changes job and goes to a new workplace . Of course the method can also depend on the user instructing the method that the automation settings should be changed because of a change in the user s routine e.g. user changes job and goes to a new workplace . Other embodiments are also possible but the key point is the method learning together with the user what is the user s behavior.

As previously described the methods and systems disclosed in this application can utilize software logics that are adaptive to change helping the user to customize the device for more efficient operations. As such there are no preset rules such as a default set of automation settings for device customization. On one hand it is too difficult to generate a default set of preset rules that will work for all types of users. On the other hand even if there can be some sort of rough grouping for the different types of users e.g. casual occasional user professional heavy user etc. the default device customization for each group is probably still too generic to be useful for any one particular user. Therefore device customizing must be performed individually for each user. Accordingly one approach can be for each user to individually generate all the automation settings manually. However that is a tedious process for the user as the user must generalize in the user s mind what are the automated workflows that the user might need. Alternatively a more efficient process could use the computing and storage power of the device to collect user activities data and help determine the relevant automated workflows that the user might need. However the device can only propose and suggest the automated workflows or the corresponding automation settings since the user is ultimately the only one who can make the right decision as to whether an automation setting will be helpful. Therefore the methods and systems presented in this disclosure use an adaptive learning approach for formulating the final automation settings. In the adaptive learning approach both the user and the device play a role in formulating the final automation settings with both parties participating in a manner that maximizes their advantages. For example the device is very good at recording a lot of data and summarizing the data while the user is very good at deciding if a suggested automated setting actually fulfills a need for the user. Accordingly this is exactly how the disclosed methods and systems generate and implement the automation settings as shown in the embodiment.

In one embodiment the methods and systems disclosed can include the ability to learn orchestrate and personalize customization for and across multiple i.e. more than one devices. In one embodiment multiple devices can share the same operating system such as Apple s iOS mobile operating system. In one embodiment the multiple devices can have different operating systems. In one embodiment some or all of the device customization can be shared across multiple devices. In one embodiment the sharing can be through a cloud storage and cloud computing service. However in one embodiment some of the device customization can be different for the different devices since different devices can have different attributes. For example a mobile device can have a location variable while a stationary device would not have a location variable. Further the different devices can learn about the user behavior separately or the different devices can learn about the user behavior jointly. In this regard some aspects of the user behavior can be the same for multiple devices so that these aspects of the user behavior that are the same for multiple devices can be shared among the multiple devices.

In one embodiment a screen capture of a workflow can be used for providing data to the automation process. This method can begin with a screen recording. Then as information such as banking information for special banking application is added to the screen this information can be captured and added to the automation process. In one embodiment the user can also manually provide information to the automation process.

In one embodiment default automation settings such as power saver and location based notification triggers can be provided. In another embodiment the automation process can be integrated with a device control center a device notification center and a cloud storage computing service. A device control center can give a user system wide control access to features such as file sharing settings screen brightness camera clock system volume music playback Airplane Mode enable and disable WiFi Bluetooth Do Not Disturb and system mute. A device notification center can serves as a central repository for system and application notifications. Examples of notifications include new mail missed calls and to dos that need doing. In one embodiment this can also include notification of the next automation run. A cloud storage computing service such as Apple s iCloud allows for storage of data on remote computer servers for download to multiple devices. As such the device customization i.e. the entire set of automation settings and the user activities data can all be stored on remote computer servers for sharing and download to other devices of the user.

In one embodiment the automation process can provide a device customization that optimizes for the longest battery life possible by minimizing the battery usage. For example usage of the GPS locator can be a drain on the battery power so the method can determine that a user is at a particular location say at work during a particular period of time. Then the GPS detector can be turned off for that particular period of time saving battery power. Furthermore the method can also provide a graph to the user that displays the benefits of the device customization in prolonging battery life.

In one embodiment the automation process includes a single switch control that can turn the entire set of automation settings on or off. In this regard the device customization associated with entire set of automation settings can be operated like a cruise control on an automobile where a user can either operate the automobile in manual mode i.e. cruise control off or automatic mode i.e. cruise control on . In other words a single switch control can either operate the device in either manual mode i.e. all automation settings disabled or automatic mode i.e. all automation settings enabled . Further this single switch control engages seamlessly with the device providing the user with the ability to stop or override the automation at any point in time. Of course individual control of each automation setting is also possible so that each automation setting can be separately enabled or disabled. In one embodiment the individual automation setting can be control through a switch such as button shown in .

In one embodiment the automation process can include the ability to identify and differentiate between multiple users sharing a common device. In one embodiment the different users can be differentiated based on different login accounts so that behavior for each user can be determined based on the activities data for that user as established through that user s login account. In another embodiment the different users can be differentiated based on different patterns of user behavior.

In one embodiment inputs from other applications such as a user s calendar can be used to help generate the automation settings. For example the phone ringing can be made to be turned off during scheduled meeting times which are provided for by a calendar application. As another example the phone ringing can also be made to be turned off during a visit to a court where no phone ringing is allowed. Once again the court visit time can be provided for by a calendar application.

In one embodiment the systems and methods described in this application can evolve into an automation platform where contributions from other developers can be incorporated and taken forward. In another embodiment other application programming interfaces APIs can also be provided going forward.

Electronic device can also include user input device that allows a user of the electronic device to interact with the electronic device . For example user input device can take a variety of forms such as a button keypad dial touch screen audio input interface visual image capture input interface input in the form of sensor data etc. Still further electronic device can include a display screen display that can be controlled by processor to display information such as web pages to the user. Data bus can facilitate data transfer between at least file system cache processor and input output I O controller . I O controller can be used to interface with and control different devices such as speakers ear buds microphone or video cameras through appropriate codecs. For example control bus can be used to control speaker .

Electronic device can also include a network bus interface that couples to data link . Data link can allow electronic device to couple to a host computer or to accessory devices or to other networks such as the internet. The data link can be provided over a wired connection or a wireless connection. In the case of a wireless connection network bus interface can include a wireless transceiver such as a wireless transceiver configured to transmit and receive data according to the LTE Long Term Evolution protocol. Sensor can take the form of circuitry for detecting any number of stimuli. For example sensor can include any number of sensors for monitoring environmental conditions such as for example a Hall Effect sensor responsive to external magnetic field an audio sensor a light sensor such as a photometer computer vision sensor to detect clarity a temperature sensor and so on.

The various aspects embodiments implementations or features of the described embodiments can be used separately or in any combination. Various aspects of the described embodiments can be implemented by software hardware or a combination of hardware and software. Some of the described embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is defined as any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include read only memory random access memory CD ROMs HDDs hard disk drives SSDs solid state drives DVDs magnetic tape and optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the described embodiments. Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the described embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings.

