---

title: Mechanical restraint for securing motorcycle rider footwear to footpeg
abstract: A restraint is configured to restrain a rider's footwear to a motorcycle footpeg along at least a nearly vertical first axis. The footpeg extends away from the motorcycle along a second axis. The restraint is based upon a combination of a hook and a clasp. The restraint can be engaged by linearly moving the footwear alternatively along either of two axes including the first axis, and a third axis that is mutually perpendicular to the first and second axes. The restraint may also be disengaged by linearly moving the footwear along the third axis. The third axis generally passes from the heel to toe of the footwear. Moving the footwear in a backward direction (toe to heel direction) engages the restraint; moving the footwear in a forward direction (heel to toe direction) disengages the restraint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09340248&OS=09340248&RS=09340248
owner: EVOLUTION RACING PRODUCTS, LLC
number: 09340248
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140714
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. non provisional patent application application Ser. No. 13 222 777 entitled MECHANICAL RESTRAINT FOR SECURING MOTORCYCLE RIDER FOOTWEAR TO FOOTPEG filed on Aug. 31 2011 and PCT patent application Application No. PCT US12 52522 entitled MECHANICAL RESTRAINT FOR SECURING MOTORCYCLE RIDER FOOTWEAR TO FOOTPEG filed on Aug. 27 2012 each of which is assigned to the same assignee with the same inventors and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention concerns an improvement in a restraint of a rider to a motorcycle. More particularly the present invention includes a mechanical hook and clasp system that provides advantages unique to motorcycle riding.

A motorcycle includes a seat on which a rider is seated and at least one pair of footpegs foot supports located at a lower portion of the vehicle relative to the seat. Included are foot operated controls in close proximity to the footpegs such as a brake and a gearshift. While in forward motion and in normal riding the rider s feet typically rest upon the footpegs. This is typically quite acceptable for riding on paved and or smooth roads.

However if the rider encounters very rough terrain or jumps the shaking may cause the rider s feet to lose contact with the footpegs. The loss of contact may be very dangerous. Experienced riders compensate for this by gripping the sides of the seat with their knees and or thighs and hanging on to the handlebars. An example of such an experienced rider is a Motocross competitor who routinely rides over very rough terrain and jumps.

Yet riding this way does not maintain an ideal amount of control for a Motocross competition. Various mechanical foot restraints for bicycling and motorcycles have been proposed in the past. Bicycle restraints require that the foot remains constrained during a full circle of pedal motion. This over constrains the foot in a way that is not acceptable for a motorcycle. For example bicycle configured restraints do not allow for ease of shifting and breaking using motorcycle foot controls. Not being able to quickly and easily exit a restraint can be a safety issue on a motorcycle.

For a motorcycle the predominate riding position has the rider with the arch of the rider s boot centered over the footpeg. This footpeg boot positional relationship allows the rider to reach the gear shift with the left toe and the rear brake with the right toe. For a skilled rider the most beneficial position for the feet to navigate rough or difficult terrain is with the ball of the foot centered over the pegs. When a skilled rider needs to shift or brake he moves his foot back to the arch centered position in order to activate the controls. The ease of being able to move the foot from ball centered to arch centered is a key factor for the application of foot restraint to a motorcycle.

The solutions offered for motorcycles have been few in number. Issues with prior designs include ease of entry ease of exiting providing adequate vertical restraint and allowing for shifting and breaking using foot controls. What is desired is a mechanical restraint that addresses all of these issues with motorcycles

The foregoing describes axes and directions. An axis extends in two directions and is generally only defined by its orientation. A direction refers to one of two opposing or opposite directions that are parallel to an axis. Axes and directions hereafter are defined relative to the restraint system being described and don t necessarily have a more general meaning. More specifically axes and directions described are defined relative to the geometry of a clasp and hook system used to restrain a motorcycle rider to a motorcycle regardless of the absolute orientation of the hook and clasp system.

A system according to the present invention is depicted in including a rider being restrained to a motorcycle along a nearly vertical first axis . To provide this restraint the footwear or boot of rider is restrained to motorcycle footpeg utilizing a hook and clasp system of the present invention. Hereafter the combination of the hook and clasp will be referred to as the restraint . Footpeg extends laterally and outwardly from motorcycle along a second axis that is perpendicular to the first axis direction is out of the page in . In the illustrations that follow the footpeg incorporates a clasp and the hook is incorporated into a sole of footwear . The restraint of the present invention can be any number of devices which restrain the footwear or boot to the footpeg including alternative embodiments where the hook may form a portion of footpeg and the clasp is incorporated into footwear .

The hook and clasp of the present invention enables very simple alternative methods of engagement and disengagement of the restraint . The rider can engage the restraint in either of two directions. The rider can press the restraint together with a single linear motion of boot along the first axis . Alternatively the rider can linearly engage the restraint with a single linear motion along a third axis that is mutually perpendicular to the first and second axes and is along the long axis of the sole . To disengage the restraint this can be done by a single linear motion in an opposite direction along the third axis. Alternatively rider can disengage restraint with an angular twist of sole . Thus engagement and disengagement of restraint can each be performed in at least two different and distinct ways for the convenience of rider .

Restraint also restrains footwear along two directions during engagement of hook to clasp. As will become apparent in the foregoing restraint restrains against an upward motion along second axis and against backward motion along the third axis.

A clasp according to the present invention is depicted in and . depicts an exploded isometric view depicts an isometric view and depicts a top view. depicts a variant of clasp having a knurled or textured upper surface . Also depicted are various axes to be discussed including the first nearly vertical axis the second axis that extends along the footpeg outwardly and laterally from the motorcycle and a third axis that is mutually perpendicular to the first and second axes and extends along the length of the sole of footwear . Clasp may be mounted to motorcycle in a manner similar to that of a conventional footpeg and hence replaces a conventional footpeg. The first second and third axis orientations are defined with respect to the hook and clasp restraint . Thus if the clasp rotates then the axes rotate with it.

Directions are also defined that are parallel to respective axes. For first axis there are two opposite directions including upward direction U not shown and downward direction D that are parallel to first axis . For second axis there are two opposite directions including inward direction and outward direction that are parallel to second axis . Outward direction is generally in a direction extending away from motorcycle . Outward direction is also along the direction from the arch to the outside of the rider s foot. For third axis there are two opposite directions including forward direction F and rearward direction R that are parallel to third axis . Forward axis F is generally the direction from the heel toward to the ball of the rider s foot.

According to clasp has upper portion U and lower portion L that are rigidly assembled together using fasteners or machine screws . In alternative embodiments clasp may be assembled together using any of conventional methods such as rivets welding an interference fit or combinations thereof. Clasp is mounted to a support portion that is attached to motorcycle in a manner that is similar or the same to that of a conventional motorcycle footpeg. Together clasp and support form a novel footpeg and thereby replace a conventional footpeg.

Clasp defines an opening that passes through the clasp along the first axis . The opening defines forward facing gap in clasp . Gap is defined between two forward extending inward and outward portions of clasp . The term forward as recited herein refers to a direction F along axis . In the disclosed embodiment opening is laterally enclosed on three sides by a generally U shaped boundary of clasp which opens in forward direction F.

Inward portion of clasp is closer to the motorcycle body than outward portion . Stated another way the footpeg extends outwardly from motorcycle in a direction from inward portion toward outward portion . In use the inward portion is adjacent to the arch or inside portion of sole and the outward portion is adjacent to an outer portion of sole of footwear .

Inward portion of clasp includes a clasp lip that is adjacent to opening . Clasp lip extends in an outward direction along second axis . A resilient member or spring is disposed upon outer portion of clasp and adjacent to opening . Thus clasp lip and spring are in relatively opposing locations across opening . While resilient member is depicted as being a metal spring other designs may incorporate elastomers plastics or geometries that provide the function of resilient member .

Clasp has a chamfered upper surface that generally follows the U shaped outline. This chamfer generally facilitates a hook to be inserted into clasp along the first axis .

Clasp is pivotally mounted relative to footpeg so as to rotate relative to support about an axis parallel to second axis . The axis of rotation is proximate to the gap between the most forward extent of inward portion and outward portion of clasp . Clasp includes springs that rotationally bias or urge clasp toward a position whereby it is parallel to support . Clasp can then be rotated such that a rear closed portion of clasp can be elevated relative to support .

A sole having hook is depicted in . is a perspective view of the bottom of sole . is a detail view taken from . is a bottom face view of sole looking upward. is a detail view taken from . is cross section view taken from . Directions and axes shown on in correspond to those depicted in earlier FIGS. according to a proper positioning or engagement of the sole with respect to the footpeg having clasp .

Sole includes ball support and heel support . Hook extends from ball support toward heel support in a rearward direction R that is opposite the direction F. Hook has a flared portion and a tapered portion . The flared portion includes a hook lip extending over a narrowed portion and an opposing surface . Hook lip over narrowed portion and opposing surface are disposed on opposing sides of hook with respect to second axis . Thus hook is asymmetric with respect to second axis . Tapered portion extends from flared portion in the rearward direction R. Tapered portion facilitates engagement between hook and clasp along the third axis .

Flared portion includes angled surfaces that define a taper in the downward direction D. This facilitates insertion and engagement of hook into clasp along the direction D. In a preferred embodiment hook does not extend along axis beyond a plane that is defined between and intersects the ball support and heel support . This is preferable to allow a rider to comfortably walk using footwear and to avoid excessive damage or wear to hook while the rider is walking. Otherwise walking along abrasive surfaces such as a sidewalk may quickly wear out and reduce effectiveness of hook .

In a first embodiment hook is formed integrally with sole . In a second embodiment hook is integrally molded with sole . In a third embodiment hook is insert molded with sole . In a fourth embodiment hook is separately attached to sole . Some existing riding boots have replaceable soles . A replacement sole with incorporated hook is a way to retrofit an existing boot to work with clasp .

According to a fifth embodiment hook is spring loaded along the first axis . A spring not shown urges hook into the position depicted in along the first axis . The spring applies a force to hook in the direction D. If a sufficient force opposing this force is applied to the hook in a direction opposite to direction D the hook is pushed up into sole along first axis . When the force is released hook returns to the position as depicted in . This allows hook to retract when the rider steps down without being properly aligned for hook to be received into clasp .

Disengagement of the hook from the clasp may be accomplished by linearly displacing the sole in the forward direction F relative to the clasp . Thus the sequence from to represents a sequence of disengagement of hook from clasp . Thus forward disengagement is simple and convenient allowing the rider to easily access foot activated gear shift and rear brake controls.

Element is of is indicative of another motion of disengagement of hook from clasp . Because hook lip only resides on a portion of flared portion of hook it is possible to rotate lip out of disengagement according to the rotational direction .

As stated before hook can be engaged with clasp via a linear motion in the rearward direction R of hook relative to clasp . Alternatively the hook can be engaged with clasp by pressing hook downwardly into opening in a downward direction D which is downwardly along axis .

The flared portion of hook includes angled faces that define a taper in the downward direction D. Clasp also has the chamfered upper surface . The angled faces and chamfered surfaces both facilitate ease of alignment between hook and opening . When hook is pressed into opening the resilient member is pressed outwardly along second axis in direction allowing hook to pass into opening .

The engagement between hook and clasp is depicted in . As hook is pressed into opening along direction D surfaces of hook engage chamfered surfaces of clasp . This engagement results in alignment forces between hook and opening . Also the engagement produces a lateral compression force that compresses resilient member in along axis . The lateral compression force causes hook lip to displace in direction away from motorcycle along axis direction in order to clear clasp lip . When hook has cleared clasp lip it then snaps back in the direction toward motorcycle along axis into the engagement position.

The specific embodiments and applications thereof described above are for illustrative purposes only and do not preclude modifications and variations encompassed by the scope of the following claims.

