---

title: Ternary antifouling compositions and methods
abstract: Compounds for mitigation of biofouling, and methods of making compounds for biofouling. Terpolymers comprising hyperbranched fluoropolymers possessing unique topology mitigate fouling on susceptible surfaces. In some embodiments, the terpolymers comprise PEG and PDMS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09422433&OS=09422433&RS=09422433
owner: The Texas A&M University System
number: 09422433
owner_city: College Station
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141218
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. N0014 10 1 0527 awarded by the U.S. Office of Naval Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Biofouling plagues a wide spectrum of applications from medical devices to maritime vessels. For the latter biofouling increases the fuel consumption of the vessel in turn leading to increased operational and maintenance costs. Conventionally the method of prevention has been through the use of anti biofouling paints and coatings which release biocides such as cuprous oxide and tributyltin however due to the negative effects these chemicals have on the environment the use of these systems is in decline.

Fluoropolymers siloxanes and poly ethylene glycol PEG have been researched extensively as anti biofoulers due to their unique chemical compositions. Fluoropolymers are of particular interest due to a low surface energy low wettability and chemical stability. Siloxanes specifically poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS have shown anti biofouling attributes due to their inertness stability and pliability. Commercially PDMS coatings are marketed as non toxic marine coatings due to the release and rejection of fouling agents under suitable hydrodynamic conditions. Poly ethylene glycol PEG or poly ethylene oxide PEO has been used extensively in the field of marine applications as well as in the medical field due to its ability to generate surfaces that resist non specific protein adsorption.

Biofouling can result from a number of mechanisms but generally involves protein adhesion and deposition by microorganisms or organisms to surfaces exposed to and typically in fluid communication with an environment which harbors the microorganisms or organisms. In maritime applications alone the costs associated with maintenance increased vessel drag and other consequences of biofouling are billions of dollars per year.

There is a need to reduce biofouling of susceptible surfaces. Fluoropolymers siloxanes and poly ethylene glycol PEG have been researched as anti biofoulers due to their unique chemical compositions. Fluoropolymers are of particular interest due to a low surface energy low wettability and chemical stability. Siloxanes specifically poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS have shown anti biofouling attributes due to their inertness stability and pliability. Commercially PDMS coatings are marketed as non toxic marine coatings due to the release and rejection of fouling agents under suitable hydrodynamic conditions. Poly ethylene glycol PEG has been used extensively in the field of marine applications as well as in the medical field due to its ability to generate surfaces that resist non specific protein adsorption. Previously linear PDMS has been modified to include hydrophilic and fluorinated moieties. However the chemistries involved incorporation of linear PDMS backbones with chemical variation achieved via side group modification. This approach is limited as it does not address the topological influences of surfaces in preventing biofouling. Topological heterogeneity in conjunction with chemical heterogeneity can further improve anti biofouling performance through the inhibition of adhesive proteins that settle on the surface. Therefore there remains a need for anti biofouling compounds possessing significant topological and chemical heterogeneity.

The disclosed subject matter provides terpolymers of hyperbranched fluoropolymers PEG and PDMS to mitigate biofouling in various applications. In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed subject matter a compound of Formula A as illustrated and below is provided 

According to certain embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the compound of Formula A is represented by Compound Q which is defined to have the formula of wherein n is selected from an integer between 1 and 15 inclusive and p and q are independently selected from an integer between 1 and 250 inclusive.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a method for reducing biofouling of a surface is provided. The method includes providing a terpolymer according to Formula A above to a surface susceptible to biofouling.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a method for preparing a compound for reducing fouling of a crude hydrocarbon in a hydrocarbon refining process is provided. The method includes 

According to a further aspect of the disclosed subject matter a compound prepared by the above method is provided.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a method for mitigating biofouling of a surface is provided. The method includes providing a surface susceptible to biofouling and contacting the surface with a compound represented by Formula A. According to a further aspect of the disclosed subject matter a composition comprising Formula for mitigating biofouling of a surface is provided.

In addition the disclosed subject matter provides compositions comprising the compound identified above and products incorporating compositions comprising the compound identified above.

As used herein the term biofouling generally refers to the accumulation of undesired organisms microorganisms and proteins on surfaces exposed to environments where microorgansisms and organisms reside.

As used herein the term surface susceptible to biofouling generally refers to any surface exposed or potentially exposed to an environment where microorganisms and organisms reside and refers to both internal and external surfaces so exposed.

As used herein mitigation of biofouling is generally achieved when the susceptibility of a surface to microorganism organism and or protein adhesion is reduced or when the force required to remove adhered microorganisms organisms and or proteins is reduced or when the overall degree of biofouling observed for a surface is reduced relative to a similar surface in a similar environment.

As used herein reference to a group being a particular polymer e.g. polyethylene glycol or polydimethylsiloxane encompasses polymers that contain primarily the respective monomer along with negligible amounts of other substitutions and or interruptions along polymer chain. In other words reference to a group being a polyethylene glycol group does not require that the group consist of 100 ethylene glycol monomers without any linking groups substitutions impurities or other substituents e.g. alkylene substituents . Such impurities or other substituents can be present in relatively minor amounts so long as they do not affect the functional performance of the compound as compared to the same compound containing the respective polymer substituent with 100 purity.

As used herein a terpolymer is a polymer comprising at least three different polymer substitutents such as PEG PDMS and HBFP .

Reference will now be made to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter in view of the definitions above.

In accordance with another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a terpolymer comprising a hyperbranched fluropolymer is provided. Suitable HBFPs include but are not limited to HBFP I HBFP II HBFP III and HBFP IV and derivatives thereof.

Such HBFPs may be synthesized using methods known in the art. See Bartels J. W. Cheng C. Powell K. T. Xu J. Wooley K. L. . 2007 208 1676 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

Suitable hydrophilic polymer components can be of neutral anionic cationic or zwitterionic charge character and include for example PEG and PEG derivatives e.g. bisamino propyl PEG poly N vinylpyrolidinone polyacrylamide poly acrylic acid polyethyleneimine polycarboxybetaine polysulfobetaine and derivatives thereof. Hydrophilic polymers have an affinity for water as measured by a low water contact angle 

Suitable hydrophobic polymer components include for example PDMS and PDMS derivatives e.g. bisamino propyl PDMS polyisoprene Bolton hyperbranched polyesters poly methyl meth acrylate polystyrene and derivatives thereof. Hydrophobic polymers lack an affinity for water as measured by a high water contact angle 90 . The amount of hydrophobic components may vary. For example the hydrophobic polymer component may vary between 0 75 wt calculated with respect to the weight of the HBFP containing component. The hydrophobic polymer component may be linear or branched.

The hydrophilic components and hydrophobic components form crosslinks with the HBFP containing components. Such crosslinking provides a three dimensional network from the otherwise low viscosity HBFP. The crosslinking with either hydrophilic or hydrophobic components creates an amphiphilic coating possessing chemical and surface heterogeneity on both the nano and micro scales. In certain embodiments crosslinks may form via a substitution reaction of the bromoacetyl and bromobenzyl groups of HBFP with the amine termini of both the linear PEG and PDMS crosslinkers and crosslinking may be affected through a deposition followed by a thermal curing. In other embodiments photo chemically initiated thiol ene reactions or other typical chemical reactions are used to form the crosslinks for suitably functionalized HBFP hydrophilic and hydrophobic polymer components.

In one aspect of the disclosed subject matter the present disclosure provides compositions comprising the reaction product of a hyperbranched fluoropolymer HBFP containing component a hydrophilic polymer component and a hydrophobic polymer component.

In accordance with certain embodiments of the disclosed subject matter In accordance with one aspect of the disclosed subject matter a compound of Formula A as illustrated and below is provided 

According to certain embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the compound of Formula A is represented by Compound Q which is defined to have the formula of wherein n is selected from an integer between 1 and 15 inclusive and p and q are independently selected from an integer between 1 and 250 inclusive.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a method for reducing biofouling of a surface is provided. The method includes providing a terpolymer according to Formula A above to a surface susceptible to biofouling.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter a method for preparing a compound for mitigating biofouling is provided. The method includes 

In certain embodiments the HBFP precursor can be generated by nucleophilic aromatic substitution of 2 3 4 5 6 pentafluorostyrene with excess polyethylene glycol in the presence of sodium hydride and tetrahyrofuran at 0 degrees Celsius followed by maintenance at room temperature in a nitrogen gas atmosphere for 14 hours as shown in reaction scheme 1 below.

Subsequently the product of scheme one can be esterified by reaction with 2 bromopropionyl bromide in triethylamine and tetrahydrofuran at 0 degrees Celsius followed by stirring at room temperature for 16 hours in a nitrogen gas atmosphere as shown in scheme 2 below.

Subsequently the inimer product of Reaction Scheme 2 can be copolymerized via CuBr and PMDETA catalysis to promote atom transfer radical condensation vinyl copolymerization to generate HBFP as shown in Reaction Scheme 3 below.

The HBFP product of Reaction Scheme 3 can subsequently be crosslinked with bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PEG and bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PDMS via Reaction Scheme 4 shown in .

The reactions of Reaction Scheme 4 above can be performed by deposition and curing of the HBFP with the PEG and PDMS substrates in the presence of base to yield robust free standing films.

In some embodiments according to the disclosed subject matter the weight percent of the PEG in the terpolymer can be between about 0.5 and about 99 of the total weight of the terpolymer compound. In additional embodiments the weight percent of polyethylene glycol relative to the terpolymer is between about 10 and about 90 and in still further embodiments the weight percent is between about 15 and about 35 .

In additional embodiments according to the disclosed subject matter the weight percent of the PDMS can be between about 0.5 and about 99 of the total weight of the terpolymer compound. In additional embodiments the weight percent of polyethylene glycol relative to the terpolymer is between about 10 and about 90 and in still further embodiments the weight percent is between about 15 and about 35 .

In certain embodiments the HBFP PEG PDMS terpolymers of the present disclosure can be characterized by a heterogeneous distribution of chemical domains. For example certain HBFP PEG PDMS terpolymers display heterogenous patch work patterns of hydrophobic e.g. low surface energy and hydrophilic e.g. water soluble and swellable domains. The combination of hydrophobic or rigid domains with hydrophilic or dynamic domains provides a material capable of among other things reducing or preventing biofouling and or promoting foulant release and removal. In other examples certain HBFP PEG PDMSs may be characterized by increased fluorine content at the surface of the material.

In certain embodiments the HBFP PEG PDMS of the present disclosure may be characterized by a micro and nanoscopically resolved topography. Topographical heterogeneity at the nanoscale may among other things prevent or reduce protein and or polysaccharide adhesion. Topographical heterogeneity at the microscale may among other things prevent or reduce organism adhesion. Together nano and microscale topographical heterogeneity may synergistically work to prevent biofouling.

In certain embodiments the HBFP PEG PDMS of the present disclosure may be characterized by a heterogeneous distribution of structural domains. For example certain HBFP PEG PDMSs display heterogeneous patch work patterns of hydrophobic e.g. rigid or hard and hydrophilic e.g. soft dynamic or swellable domains. The combination of domains with these properties provides a material capable of among other things reducing or preventing biofouling. In certain embodiments the HBFP PEG PDMS of the present disclosure may show dynamic surface reorganization upon immersion in water as measured by static water contact angle.

In certain embodiments the HBFP PEG PDMS of the present disclosure may comprise a raised region wherein the raised region is characterized by a high modulus a low deformation a low surface energy and low dissipation a lattice region wherein the lattice region is characterized by a moderate modulus a moderate deformation a low surface energy and a moderate dissipation and a deeper interstitial region wherein the deeper interstitial region is characterized by a low modulus a high deformation a high surface energy and a high dissipation.

The dynamic and heterogeneous topology of the disclosed compounds has significant functional consequences in biofouling mitigation applications. Any fouling that occurs upon a substrate involves balancing of particular molecular level attractive and repulsive interactions between the foulant and the surface. Marine organisms initially probe surfaces decide whether or not to settle on either a hydrophobic hydrophilic soft or hard substrate and adhere by the secretion of adhesin proteins. In biomedical applications of materials many different types of biomolecules and biomacromolecules make contact with the substrate depending on the particular mechanism and site of administration. In other applications of anti fouling coatings the foulants may be various biological or synthetic chemicals encountered in the environment. Different fouling species experience different binding interactions with different anti fouling coatings components. By designing polymer networks that present compositionally topographically and morphologically heterogeneous surfaces therefore a complex profile of attractive and repulsive interactions is provided to limit the dimensions over which adhesion may occur. Moreover the characteristic of dynamic reorganization of the surface components is a mechanism by which to alter the composition topography morphology features that are presented from the surface and thereby detach any initially adhered species or to intercept and prevent their adhesion before it occurs. The combination of a complex surface that is capable of in situ reorganization is a powerful and unique concept toward anti fouling coatings that exhibit exceptional anti foulant and foulant releasing performance.

As disclosed herein and with reference to Example 1 below the various topographical characterizations of the embodiments disclosed herein support a varied and dynamic topology for biofouling mitigation applications. For example static surface contact angle measurements before and after water equilibration of these ternary systems provide compelling evidence of dynamic reordering in these systems. Further by varying the formulation e.g. PDMS and PEG ratios to HBFP the system can be tailored to express greater amounts of hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity on exposure to water and sea water. These reordering events are indicative of a non static surface that contributes to greater heterogeneity in a dynamic fashion in addition to its intrinsic heterogeneity as cast and is intended to further confuse and dissuade biologic entities for settling.

Additionally environmental dynamic mechanical analysis DMA shows the bulk effects of the system in submersion at in ocean and in body conditions by exposing the system to temperatures and solvents that are similar to the environments of both applications. While the kinetics of the mechanical response to solvation swell and the onset of a solvated steady state response are obtainable from such studies the determination of the final steady state behavior is perhaps most critical as this will ultimately determine film wear and mechanical matching to any substrate. Moreover Atomic force microscopy AFM and surface force spectroscopy SFS explicitly show both topographic complexity on the nano and microscale while also capturing the exact distribution of constituents at the surface by relating nanomechanical measurements to the known behavior of PEG PDMS and HBFP.

The additives of the disclosed subject matter can be used in compositions that mitigate biofouling. For purpose of example and not limitation suitable compositions for the disclosed compounds include surface coatings including anti fouling coatings for any surface that is placed in contact with a marine environment biological fluid or the environment. For purpose of example and not limitation the disclosed compounds are suitable for coatings for maritime vessels undersea cables lenses for sonar and other instruments glass or plastic windows solar panels food packaging materials catheters i.v. needles medical implants stents heart valves pacemakers pacemaker wires and any other body implantable device. In addition to the additives of the disclosed subject matter the compositions can further contain adhesion agents such as epoxides dispersants and stabilizers.

The compositions of the disclosed subject matter can further include for example lubricants corrosion inhibitors and reduced friction surface coatings.

Furthermore the additives of the disclosed subject matter can be added with other compatible components that address other problems that can present themselves in an oil refining process known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The compounds of the disclosed subject matter can be incorporated into surface coatings and surface adhesives for disposition over the surface of an article. According to one aspect of the disclosed subject matter the compounds are applied by means of dropping painting or pouring a solution containing the compounds onto the surface. Additionally or alternatively and with reference to Example 2 below the compounds can be spray coated over the surface of an article susceptible to biofouling. Coatings incorporating the disclosed compounds can be applied before first exposure of a surface to biofouling or during the life of the surface after initial exposure to biofouling.

While not limited thereto the compounds of the disclosed subject matter are particularly suitable in reducing or preventing biofouling fouling. Thus one aspect of the disclosed subject matter provides a method of reducing and or preventing in particular biofouling that includes adding at least one compound of the disclosed subject matter to a surface that is known to or believed to be susceptible to biofouling.

In some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter a method to mitigate biofouling is provided comprising adding any one of the above mentioned compounds to a coating for a surface that is susceptible to biofouling.

The total amount of the compound to be added to a coating or applied directly to a surface can be determined by a person of ordinary skill in the art. In one embodiment substantially the entire surface susceptible to biofouling is coated with the compound.

The compounds of the disclosed subject matter can be added to a coating solution in a solid e.g. powder or granules or liquid form directly to the coating solution. Any suitable technique can be used for adding the compound to a coating solution as known by a person of ordinary skill in the art in view of the process to which it is employed.

The disclosed subject matter is further described by means of the examples presented below. The use of such examples is illustrative only and in no way limits the scope and meaning of the disclosed subject matter or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosed subject matter is not limited to any particular preferred embodiments described herein. Indeed many modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading this specification.

Reagents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and used as received unless otherwise noted. 2 3 4 5 6 Pentafluorostyrene PFS was purchased from Apollo Scientific UK and filtered through a plug of neutral alumina prior to use. 2 4 6 tris bromomethyl mesitylene was purchased from Combi Blocks. Sylgard 184 elastomer was purchased from Dow Corning and prepared according to their protocol. Bovine serum albumin BSA conjugated to Alexa Fluor 680 was purchased from Invitrogen. Sylgard 184 Dow Corning was purchased from Ellsworth Adhesives and was prepared as instructed.

Monomers and polymers were characterized by H C and F nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopies using a Varian Inova 300 spectrometer. H and C NMR spectra were analyzed using the solvent signal as an internal reference and F NMR spectra were analyzed with CFCOOH as an external standard. High resolution mass spectrometry HRMS for the monomers was conducted on an Applied Biosystems PE SCIEX QSTAR. Spectral data for the small molecules are reported elsewhere.

IR spectra were obtained on a Shimadzu IR Prestige attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectrometer ATR IR . Spectra were analyzed using IRsolution software package Shimadzu . X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS measurements were taken with a Kratos Axis Ultra Imaging X ray photoelectron spectrometer using Mono A1 anode 12 kV voltage and 10 mA current.

Gel permeation chromatography was performed on a Waters Chromatography Inc. Milford Mass. 1515 isocratic HPLC pump equipped with an inline degasser a model PD2020 dual angle 15 and 90 light scattering detector Precision Detectors Inc. a model 2414 differential refractometer Waters Inc. and four PLpolystyrene co divinylbenzene gel columns Polymer Laboratories Inc. connected in series 5 m Guard 50 7.5 mm 5 m Mixed C 300 7.5 mm 5 m 10 300 7.5 mm and 5 m 500 300 7.5 mm using the Breeze version 3.30 Waters Inc. software.

Differential scanning calorimetric DSC studies were performed on a Mettler Toledo DSC822 Mettler Toledo Inc. Columbus Ohio with a heating rate of 10 C. min. The Twas taken as the midpoint of the inflection tangent upon the third heating scan. Thermogravimetric analysis was performed under Ar atmosphere using a Mettler Toledo model TGA DSC 1 Starsystem with a heating rate of 10 C. min. Measurements were analyzed using Mettler Toledo Star software version 10.00d.

Atomic force microscopy was performed under ambient conditions in air. The AFM instrumentation consisted of a MFP 3D BIO AFM Asylum Research Santa Barbara Calif. and standard silicon tips type OTESPA 70 L 160 m normal spring constant 50 N m resonance frequency 246 282 kHz . Force spectroscopy mapping was performed via AFM measurements using a Bruker Multimode 8 system in PeakForce tapping mode. This imaging method also provides direct surface maps of modulus dispersion deformation and adhesion. In brief the PeakForce QNM imaging mode uses a modified Hertzian model the DMT model to directly extract a reduced Young s modulus E . The DMT model takes into account surface tip interactions neglected in the Hertz model and also allows for mapping of adhesion force deformation and dissipation energy.

In brief the PeakForce QNM imaging mode that uses a modified Hertzian model the DMTmodel equation 1 to directly extract a reduced Young s modulus E . The DMT model takes into account surface tip interactions neglected in the Hertz model.

In equation 1 for the DMT reduced Young s Modulus Fis the force on the probe tip Fis the adhesive force between the probe tip and the sample R is the working tip radius and d is the depth of surface deformation below the zero force contact point. The reduced Young s modulus is related to the sample modulus by equation 2 and reduces to equation 3 where the modulus of the probe tip is much greater than the sample being measured.

This is where is the sample Poisson s ratio is the probe tip Poisson s ratio Eis the probe tip modulus and E is the sample modulus. Force curve fitting after tip contact provides a reduced modulus value. The difference in force curve minima during approach and retraction provides adhesion force. The absolute minimum in tip Z position after contact dictates deformation. Finally the hysteresis in the approach and retraction force curves provides dispersion values.

In these measurements a ScanAsyst Air Bruker with manufacturer specification for a spring constant of k 0.4 was used. For this study no formal calibration was performed as the relative values for purposes of chemical identification were sought. Arbitrary values for tip size and the Poisson ratio were used. Thermal tuning of the cantilever gave a resonant frequency of 93 kHz. However as PeakForce imaging uses the cantilever in an off resonance mode of 2 kHz this finding is not critical to the qualitative value of the imaging.

A Mettler Toledo TT DMA system was used for all dynamic mechanical and dynamic thermal mechanical analysis DMA DTMA studies. Submersion studies were performed in Hyclone Thermo calcium magnesium free phosphate buffered saline solution X PBS for simulation of an in vivo environment. Submersion studies were performed in synthetic sea water Ricca Chemicals cat. no. 8363 5 ASTM D 1141 substitute ocean water for simulation of a marine environment. All measurements were taken in compression with a dynamic force of 0.1 N.

Contact angles were measured as static contact angles using the sessile drop technique with an Attension Theta optical tensiometer Biolin Scientific . Drops were fitted with a Young Laplace formula to calculate the static contact angle in the Theta software Biolin Scientific .

Bovine serum albumin conjugated to AlexaFluor 680 BSA was dissolved in phosphate buffered saline PBS solution pH 7.1 to a concentration of 0.1 mg mL and stored in the dark. Sylgard 184 was used as a standard to test against the terpolymer film. The surface of the terpolymer network and Sylgard 184 were incubated in fresh PBS buffer for 10 min and dried via filtered nitrogen gas. The surfaces were then exposed to Alexa Fluor 680 conjugate in PBS at 0.1 mg mLfor 45 min in a dark chamber. After exposure the surfaces were washed with 5 mL of PBS buffer and dried via filtered nitrogen gas for 1 h. Z stacked confocal fluorescence images were taken of the BSA exposed surfaces and were discussed in terms of resultant intensity histograms. The imaging platform was a full spectral Olympus FV 1000 laser scanning confocal microscope operating with a 635 nm diode laser and fluorescence collection selected by a wide band monochrometer from 650 to 750 nm.

To a 250 mL Schlenk flask equipped with a stir bar was added 9.00 g 19.6 mmol of compound 2 having the chemical structure below

Design of the Hyperbranched Fluoropolymer Poly Ethylene Glycol Poly Dimethylsiloxane Crosslinked Terpolymer Network HBFP PEG PDMS Two Dimensional Series

A series of HBFP PEG PDMS networks was prepared with a constant wt of HBFP 3b and at varying wt PEG 0 75 wt calculated with respect to the weight of HBFP and PDMS 25 75 wt calculated with respect to the weight of HBFP to investigate how the relative stoichiometry of the crosslinkers affected surface topography and hydrophilicity.

The following general procedure was followed for each sample as defined here for the terpolymer network having 25 wt of each PEG and PDMS. To a scintillation vial was added a selected HBFP 100 mg 1500 Da bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PEG 25 mg 0.017 mmol 25 wt 1500 Da bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PDMS 25 mg 0.010 mmol 25 wt THF 2 mL and N N diisopropylethylamine DIPEA 0.05 mL 0.3 mmol and the mixture was stirred magnetically until homogeneous. The solution was drop cast 0.5 mL per slide onto pre cleaned pre cut 1 cmglass microscope slides. A period of ca. 30 min allowed for the solvent to evaporate which afforded a thick pre gel that was cured at 110 C. for 45 min under Natmosphere to afford the dry coatings. The crosslinked networks were then submerged in nanopure water bath overnight prior to characterization.

To a scintillation vial was added bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PEG 100 mg 0.067 mmol 2 4 6 tris bromomethyl mesitylene 18 mg 0.045 mmol and THF 1 mL and stirred until homogeneous. To the solution was added DIPEA 0.12 mL 0.69 mmol and stirred for 30 min. The solution was drop cast onto pre cleaned pre cut 1 cmglass cover slips. A period of ca. 30 min allowed for the solvent to evaporate which afforded a thick pre gel that was cured at 110 C. for 45 min under Natmosphere to afford the dry coatings.

To a scintillation vial was added bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PDMS 130 mg 0.046 mmol 2 4 6 tris bromomethyl mesitylene 12 mg 0.030 mmol and THF 1 mL and stirred until homogeneous. To the solution was added DIPEA 0.09 mL 0.52 mmol and stirred for 30 min. The solution was drop cast onto pre cleaned pre cut 1 cmglass cover slips. A period of ca. 30 min allowed for the solvent to evaporate which afforded a thick pre gel that was cured at 110 C. for 45 min under Natmosphere to afford the dry coatings.

A series of three HBFP PDMS binary networks and nine HBFP PEG PDMS terpolymer networks was synthesized with varying stoichiometries of the HBFP PEG 0 25 50 and 75 wt relative to HBFP and PDMS 25 50 and 75 wt relative to HBFP components to probe the compositional effects on the physical mechanical and biological properties of the crosslinked materials. The process began through the generation of HBFP by synthesizing the precursor compound 1 having the chemical structure shown below 

An initial study probed the terpolymer networks with variation of the HBFP PEG PDMS weight percent wt ratios to determine the influence of each component on surface character as evaluated by AFM and contact angle measurements prior to and post water immersion as shown in . In both the dry and wet AFM images complex topography is seen on the submicrometer scale and surface rearrangement is seen upon water immersion. The dynamic reorganization of the surface chemistry during the water immersion was also probed through static water contact angle measurements. The contact angle data of the dry films show an overall decrease in the hydrophobicity of the surface with increasing amounts of PDMS displaying that the HBFP fraction plays an integral role in the surface complexity of the system. Upon water immersion a decrease in the contact angle is seen in films with 50 wt PEG or greater indicating dynamic surface reorganization occurring in these systems and that the PEG rich regions are discrete enough for isolated regions of water uptake to occur . Upon wetting the surfaces having 0 or 25 wt PEG an opposite effect was observed with increases in the static water contact angles . This behavior has been observed for some amphiphilic materials that are capable of dynamic surface reorganization where PEG rich hydrophilic regions absorb water and promote an increase in the fluorocarbon hydrophobic content at the surface ultimately resulting in a contraphilic effect as supported by previous work using secondary ion mass spectrometry SIMS and observed in other systems as well.

We next focused attention on the one sample composition that gave the most peculiar behavior. Given the generally high surface topographic roughnesses and trends of either increased or decreased water contact angle for a minority 0 or 25 wt vs. majority 50 or 75 wt of PEG content relative to HBFP respectively the one sample that was unique was that having 50 wt of each PEG and PDMS relative to HBFP which exhibited no change in water contact angle. In order to determine the contribution of the three constituencies to the surface character of the network surface force spectroscopy SFS mapping was performed to differentiate between HBFP PDMS and PEG rich regions on the surface of the HBFP PEG PDMS terpolymer network with 50 wt PEG and 50 wt PDMS TP . A particular focus was placed on the qualitative differences in surface response as a function of topography. The results of the SFS study are provided as AFM micrographs spectral maps and 3D renderings in . Surface topography reveals two sets of features a raised lattice of interconnected regions and a lower region interstitial to the lattice with a 6.0 nm height differential between the two. However topography alone tells little in regards to the innate composition of the two regions and would in a less complex system imply a biphasic material. To further our understanding of the system s surface SFS was used to determine the relative difference in surface character from feature to feature. Modulus mapping shows that the raised lattice is composed of two major variations in response with islands of higher modulus material connected by lower modulus material. The deeper interstitial material appears the softest. Deformation mapping at constant force provides an inverse relationship to that observed from modulus mapping with the stiff island regions deforming 2 nm the raised portions connecting the island regions deforming 4 nm and the soft lowered interstitial regions deforming 10 nm at a constant tapping force. Adhesion force mapping provides similar phase information as what might be assumed from topography while also suggesting that the height of the features may be directly related to the surface energy where the raised regions are lower energy and the lower regions are rich in higher surface energy material. Dissipation mapping provides information about the energy loss to non restorative forces after deformation and correlates with deformation. From what is known about fluoropolymer PDMS and PEG surfaces in general the following assignments are made 

To further support the results of the SFS findings attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy ATR IR and X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS were used to investigate the surface composition of TP. ATR IR provides IR spectra only for the first 100 nm of the sample network surface making it a viable method for tracking chemical changes in a polymeric surface. Assessment of the surface of TP pre and post water exposure was performed. The assessment was also done for a PDMS and PEG film and pure HBFP powder. These results are provided in and . It can be seen that both the PEG and HBFP samples express water signals almost exclusively after swelling. These results are reasonable as both the PEG coating and the raw HBFP possess glycol domains which readily uptake water when other constraints do not exist. The PDMS surface displayed only a very small water signature which is also reasonable. Considering the effects on the surface chemistry of the terpolymer system after wetting several changes become immediately apparent. From comparison to the PEG surface it can be seen that the PEG contribution to the 974 cmand 1460 cmpeak signals are greatly diminished after wetting the terpolymer surface. It can also be observed that the HBFP signals at 1497 cmand 1734 cmare expressly present in the terpolymer surface after wetting.

Neither of these findings are in themselves unique to this system as other HBFP PEG networks have shown similar behaviors. The uniqueness of this system is in the gross expression of PDMS character after wetting where the 1010 cm 1080 cmand 1258 cmPDMS peaks dominate the spectra thus making the overall spectra for the terpolymer surface after wetting most closely mimic the PDMS surface spectral signature. The dominance of the PDMS signature is an important result as is it implies that HBFP in the presence of mobile PDMS after water incubation does not dominate the surface as in other HBFP PEG systems. This result presents an entirely new method for controlling surface reorganization in these amphiphilic heterogeneous systems opening a full range of surface controls previously unrealized. XPS results clarify that the surface initially possessed all three functionalities in sufficient quantities to have comparable spectral signatures .

TP was investigated by thermogravimetric analysis to determine how crosslinking influences the thermal stability of the network . From ambient temperature to 250 C. 5 mass loss is seen in the network consistent with a partial degradation of PDMS. There are then two degradation events that can be seen in the network the first occurring from 250 C. to ca. 350 C. corresponding to a continued degradation of PDMS and then from 350 C. to 500 C. resulting in an 80 mass loss of the sample in total corresponding to the decomposition of HBFP and PEG. It can be seen through this study that the crosslinks in the system do not infer any additional thermal benefit to the network but overall this finding should not detract from the intended uses for this material.

Differential scanning calorimetry was used to probe the phase transitions present in the terpolymer network . Upon heating a melting transition can first be seen at 33 C. which can be attributed to the PEG in the network followed by a Tat 63 C. which can be attributed to HBFP. A third phase transition a T is then seen at 113 C. which is also attributed to HBFP. HBFP has two unique glass transition temperatures arising from the two units that comprise the framework of the polymer. The Tat 63 C. is most likely from the branching in the polymer framework in HBFP with the second Tarising from linear pentafluorostyrene units.

The mechanical properties of TP were investigated with a combination of dynamic mechanical analysis DMA dynamic thermal mechanical analysis DTMA and static stress strain analysis. Initial investigation of TP by DTMA at 1 Hz showed two phase transitions via tan peaks at 89 A1 and 129 C. A2 which were assigned to a glass transition of the PEGylated fluorostyrene branching subunits and of the pentafluorosytrene subunits of the HBFP respectively. Room temperature A0 storage modulus E was found to be 7.1 MPa with a loss modulus E of 1.1 MPa. A quasi steady state character was reached near 150 C. A3 resulting in post phase transition values of 0.92 and 0.16 MPa for E and E . A frequency sweep at room temperature displayed frequency dependence typical of an amorphous material without significant phase separations or low temperature phase transitions imminent. A summary of DMA and DTMA data can be found in Table 1. Static stress strain measurements resulted in a characteristic Young s modulus of 37 1 MPa for deformations of less than 1 .

In order to assess the response in a marine setting one of the target application environments for these materials TP was assessed by DTMA in synthetic sea water. Temperature was decreased from 20 M0 to 0 C. over a two and a half hour period and allowed to equilibrate M2 . The mechanical response of the system over this period is summarized in Table 1 below including the E E tan inflection point M1 observed at 10 C. and the equilibration time constant after reaching 0 C. Results of this portion of the mechanical assessment are presented in with a plot of the change in E E per degree change in temperature as a function of temperature to display that at temperatures below 15 C. the effect of temperature on stiffness drops off linearly. The ultimate character of TP at 0 C. was a 25 increase in stiffness over initial submersion response and was 50 more resistant to deformation when compared to the ambient condition response in air.

This system also has potential application as a coating on biomedical devices where a decreased likelihood of vector transferal or human cell adhesion is sought. Therefore assessment of the mechanical response of the TP was performed at conditions that simulate an in body environment. DMA was performed in a submersion of PBS at 37 C. B0 and monitored to observe solvent uptake B1 B2 swelling B3 and the steady state B4 response of the film after reaching solvent equilibrium . Two relatively fast phases of initial solvent uptake are observed with transition lifetimes of 0.03 and 0.12 h and are assigned to rapid association of PEG domains and amphiphilic HBFP domains respectively. These processes resulted in a total loss of ca. 65 of film stiffness. After initial solvent intercalation into the matrix a swell period of 1.3 h with a transformation lifetime of 0.32 h occurred before beginning an equilibration process resulting in storage and loss moduli similar to that observed in the steady state of the marine application experiment. The similarities are likely a coincidence as the reasons for both having steady state submersed mechanical properties roughly twice as stiff as the ambient matrix are completely different e.g. the warmer sample has many rotating bonds in the backbone resulting in a pre glass transition tensing of the matrix which will dictate mechanical response whereas rigidity is responsible for the character of the colder sample . However it is an interesting observation as that TP can be expected to perform similarly in both environments in its current formulation.

In an attempt to assess the terpolymer network s surface resistance to non specific protein binding an assay was performed using bovine serum albumin BSA coupled to Alexa Flour 680. Both TP and a PDMS standard Sylgard 184 were assessed after 45 min of incubation with a 0.1 mg mL BSA in PBS buffer via confocal fluorescence microscopy. Comparison of the two surfaces emission histograms from 650 nm to 750 nm after 635 nm excitation can be found in along with the integrated z stack images . The change in relative intensities with identical excitation and collection regimes shows TP s surface to be ca. 60 less susceptible to BSA adsorption than the standard Sylgard 184 PDMS surface.

A series of amphiphilic coatings utilizing HBFP PEG and PDMS with unique surface characteristics were synthesized and characterized. It was shown that heterocomplexity and surface energy are explicitly functions of chemical composition and that these systems show promise for use as anti biofouling coatings.

Differing from previous fluoropolymer PEG systems through incorporation of PDMS the synthesized terpolymer system expands on the current generation of coatings and displays distinctive topographical compositional and morphological features as seen specifically through the analysis of the surfaces by surface force and ATR IR spectroscopies. The systems presented here provide enhanced surface complexity with no significant increase in the synthetic or cure conditions. This system also provides an entirely new mode of dynamic surface reorganization as shown by preferential emergence of PDMS character on the surface after water immersion and differing from the heavy fluoropolymer expression observed in previous HBFP PEG formulations.

By varying the compositional ratios of the three constituents a wide range of topographical hydroscopic and swell reorganization variations were displayed. Microscopic characterization revealed a highly disordered heterogeneous surface that varied both topographically and chemically at the micro and nano scale. Investigation of non specific protein binding resistance of the terpolymer network is encouraging with significantly better resistance to protein adsorption than a commercially available anti biofouling PDMS standard.

Bulk thermal and mechanical characterization revealed the kinetics and degree of matrix change at both marine and in body conditions. All of these features provide a new type of amphiphilic surface uniquely qualified for further investigation as a new branch of anti biofouling material.

Anti biofouling surfaces were produced by synthesis of terpolymer coatings composed of hyperbranched fluoropolymers crosslinked with bisamino propyl poly ethylene glycol and bisamino propyl polydimethylsiloxane PDMS . This HBFP was chosen due to its amphiphilic character which enhances anti biofouling performance while retaining the desired nanoscale surface heterogeneities. Crosslinking in this system occurred via a substitution reaction of the bromoacetyl and bromobenzyl groups of HBFP with the amine termini of both the linear PEG and PDMS crosslinkers. Nanoscale imaging and surface spectroscopy confirmed that this system possessed complex surface topographies and chemical compositions. Surface complexity was determined to be due to molecular interactions phase segregation and compositional gradients arising between the three components. A clear difference in surface behaviour was observable before and after exposure to water. Anti biofouling characteristics were investigated by bovine serum albumin BSA adhesion studies displaying a 60 greater resistance to protein adsorption in comparison to the fouling of a PDMS standard.

An array of HBFP PEG PDMS were produced to investigate the anti biofouling performance of the coatings. The amounts of the crosslinkers were varied with respect to HBFP to create a 3 3 array of coatings with varying weight percentages of PEG and PDMS 25 wt 50 wt and 75 wt to determine which composition and properties afford the most promising characteristics for future anti biofouling coatings.

A range of test coatings were prepared for evaluation. Coatings were mounted on an epoxy barrier coat Interseal 670HS . Generally the two component system of Interseal 670HS was mixed per the manufacturer s instructions 5.70 mL 1 mL of Part A Part B and was then diluted with 3 mL of THF. The system was applied to a glass microscope slides via an airbrush applicator Central Pneumatic using an application pressure of 50 psi. The system allowed to cure at ambient temperature for 18 hours. To a scintillation vial was added a selected HBFP 370 mg 0.032 mmol 1500 Da bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PEG 92.5 mg 0.062 mmol 25 wt 1500 Da bis 3 aminopropyl terminated PDMS 92.5 mg 0.037 mmol 25 wt THF 20 mL and N N diisopropylethylamine DIPEA 0.050 mL 0.30 mmol and the mixture was svortexed until homogeneous. The film was then applied to 8 coated glass microscope slides via an airbrush applicator using an application pressure of 50 psi. The film was then cured in an oven at 110 C. for 45 min under N2 atmosphere to afford the dry coatings. Slides coated with only the barrier coat under coat were supplied as a control to check that it was not affecting the attachment of the diatoms. Water contact angles for the coatings were evaluated to estimate hydrophobicity.

All coatings were equilibrated in de ionised water for 24 hours followed by 0.22 m filtered artificial seawater for 2 hours prior to testing.

N incerta cells were cultured in F 2 medium contained in 250 ml conical flasks. After 3 days the cells were in log phase growth. Cells were washed 3 times in fresh medium before harvesting and diluted to give a suspension with a chlorophyll a content of approximately 0.25 g ml 1. Cells were settled in individual dishes containing 10 ml of suspension at room temperature on the laboratory bench. After 2 hours the slides were exposed to a submerged wash in seawater to remove cells which had not attached the immersion process avoided passing the samples through the air water interface . Samples were fixed in 2.5 glutaraldehyde air dried and the density of cells attached to the surface was counted on each slide using a fluorescence microscope. Strong autofluorescence from the samples meant that counting could not be automated and counts were made by eye. Counts were made for 10 fields of view each 0.15 mm2 on each slide. Results are shown in .

Slides with attached cells of N. incerta were exposed to a shear stress of 20 Pa in a water channel. Samples were fixed and the number of cells remaining attached was counted using the method described above. Results are shown in . The density of attached N. incerta on the test coatings after washing i.e. initial attachment density is illustrated in . Each point is the mean from 30 counts on 3 replicate slides. Bars show 95 confidence limits.

Zoospores were obtained from mature plants of by the standard method. A suspension of zoospores 10 ml 1 106 spores ml 1 was added to individual compartments of quadriperm dishes containing the samples. After 45 minutes in darkness at room temperature the slides were washed by passing 10 times through a beaker of seawater to remove unsettled i.e. swimming spores. Slides were fixed using 2.5 glutaraldehyde in seawater. The density of zoospores attached to the surface was counted on each of 3 replicate slides using an image analysis system attached to a fluorescence microscope. Spores were visualised by autofluorescence of chlorophyll. Counts were made for 30 fields of view each 0.15 mm on each slide. Results are shown in .

Spores were allowed to settle on the coatings for 45 minutes and then washed as described above. The spores were cultured using supplemented seawater medium for 7 days to produce sporelings young plants on 6 replicate slides of each treatment. Sporeling growth medium was refreshed every 48 hours.

Sporeling biomass was determined in situ by measuring the fluorescence of the chlorophyll contained within the sporelings in a Tecan fluorescence plate reader. Using this method the biomass was quantified in terms of relative fluorescence units RFU . The RFU value for each slide is the mean of 70 point fluorescence readings taken from the central portion. The sporeling growth data are expressed at as the mean RFU of 6 replicate slides bars show SEM standard error of the mean .

Strength of attachment of sporelings was initially assessed using a shear stress of 52 Pa in the water channel 52 Pa is the maximum achievable . There was negligible removal from any of the terpolymer coatings and consequently the apparatus was changed for the higher powered water jet. The relative attachment strength of sporelings on the terpolymer coatings was determined by exposure to a water jet producing an impact pressure of 112 kPa. Biomass remaining after exposure to the water jet was determined using the fluorescence plate reader as above . The percentage removal as shown at was calculated from readings taken before and after exposure to the water jet.

Diatoms sink in the water column and land on the coating surfaces by gravity. Therefore before washing the cell density on all the test surfaces is the same irrespective of chemistry. The process of washing removes unattached and weakly attached cells and thus differences in initial attachment density reflect differences in the ability of cells to attach firmly to the surfaces and resist the hydrodynamic forces of washing.

The initial attachment densities of diatoms were broadly similar on all the terpolymer test coatings . Attachment densities were higher on the glass standard and on the Interseal undercoat.

Diatom removal due to a shear stress of 20 Pa was higher from the three coatings containing PEG at 75 wgt than from the other coatings . Removal was exceptionally low from the coatings containing PEG at 25 and 50 wgt in conjunction with PDMS at 50 wgt .

The density of diatoms remaining on the terpolymer coatings was lowest on the coatings containing PEG at 75 wgt in conjunction with PDMS at 50 and 75 wgt .

Spore settlement density on the terpolymer coatings differed between formulations . On the PEG 25 coatings settlement density was similar at all PDMS loadings. However on the PEG 50 coatings settlement density decreased with PDMS content whilst on the PEG 75 coatings it increased.

Biomass generation on all coatings broadly reflected the spore settlement densities described above . Sporeling growth appeared normal on all coatings with no signs of toxicity from left the coatings illustrated in are Control PEG 25 PD 25 50 75 PEG 50 PD 25 50 75 PEG 75 PD 25 50 75 .

The percent removal of sporelings is shown in . None of the coatings had a fouling release performance that was as good as the PDMSe standard. Adhesion strength on the PEG 25 coatings was similar at all PDMS loadings. On the PEG 50 coatings adhesion strength decreased with PDMS content i.e. removal increased as PDMS content increased. On the PEG 75 coatings adhesion strength was slightly higher i.e. less removal on the PDMS 50 loading than on the 25 and 75 loadings.

At a PEG content of 25 neither antifouling spore settlement or fouling release performance were affected by PDMS content. When the PEG content was increased to 50 spore settlement density and adhesion strength both decreased as the PDMS content increased.

The disclosed subject matter is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and the accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Patents patent applications publications product descriptions and protocols are cited throughout this application the disclosures of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

