---

title: Fingerprinting apparatus, system, and method
abstract: An apparatus, system and method for biometric acquisition are disclosed. In one embodiment, a sensor is configured to detect a biometric signature of a subject. The sensor is configured to be mounted to a surface. Various sensors are disclosed as being operative with the biometric acquisition apparatus. A vehicle with a mounted biometric acquisition apparatus is disclosed. A method for identification of suspects is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436865&OS=09436865&RS=09436865
owner: 
number: 09436865
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140423
---
This non provisional patent application is a continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 154 064 entitled FINGERPRINTING APPARATUS SYSTEM AND METHOD filed on Jun. 6 2011 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0306619 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Obtaining fast and accurate identification of a subject has always been a concern of public and private security institutions including without limitation law enforcement military private security among other personnel. Obtaining fast and accurate identification of a subject including any prior and current history of the subject can be useful to law enforcement military private security among other personnel associated with public and private security institutions.

Biometric scanners are available which can capture an image of a fingerprint or palm print. A signal representative of the captured image is sent over a data communication interface to a host computer for further processing. For example the host can perform a one to one or one to many fingerprint matching.

Current fingerprinting devices for use in the field present issues of safety and use. Handheld scanners can be cumbersome and do not leave hands free for rapid response to changing conditions. Handheld scanners also require police to come within arms reach of a suspect. Additionally current fingerprinting devices cannot be used unobtrusively to identify suspects without arousing suspicion.

Accordingly there is a need for surreptitious biometric identification capabilities for use in the field.

In one embodiment a sensor is configured to produce an electrical signal corresponding to a biometrics signature of a subject. The sensor is configured to be mounted to a surface. The surface may be but is not limited to the surface of a vehicle a door surface or a surface that comes into frequent contact with a biometric signature.

In various embodiments a biometric sensor may comprise a capacitive sensor thermal sensor electromagnetic sensor optical sensor or ultrasonic sensor among others.

In one embodiment a biometric security apparatus comprises a sensor configured to detect a biometric signature of a subject. The biometric security apparatus may be mounted to a surface to prevent detection of the sensor. A processing node in signal communication with the sensor may be configured to compare the detected biometric signature to a biometric database. The processing node may be in signal communication with and configured to control a door lock configured to control a door lock.

In one embodiment a method for identifying a suspect comprises obtaining a biometric signature of the subject. The biometric signature is then transmitted by a communication module to a processing node where it is processed for comparison with biometric data stored in a biometric database. The communication module receives a response from the processing node indicating the result of the comparison of the biometric signature to the biometric database.

Various embodiments of a surreptitious biometric acquisition apparatus as disclosed herein can be used for identification of subjects. Identifying subjects through biometric data can be useful in a variety of situations including but not limited too law enforcement military and private security.

In one embodiment of a surreptitious biometric acquisition apparatus illustrated in a biometric acquisition module is formed integrally with the surface of a vehicle . In the embodiment illustrated in the biometric acquisition module is formed integrally with a hood of the vehicle . In other embodiments the biometric acquisition module may be formed with any suitable surface of the vehicle including but not limited to the trunk the roof or side panels. The biometric acquisition module is communicatively coupled to a first node . In one embodiment communication between the biometric acquisition module and the first node can be for example a wired or wireless connection. The first node is configured to receive a signal from the biometric acquisition module that contains biometric data associated with a suspect that has come in contact with the biometric acquisition module . In one embodiment the first node can be a laptop computer located inside of the vehicle . In another embodiment the first node can be an independent system installed into the vehicle specifically configured for biometric identification. The first node is configured to transmit the biometric data to a biometric database via a network .

The biometric database can be any suitable database containing biometric and identifying information of subjects. In one embodiment the biometric database can be a government maintained identification database for example Automated Fingerprint Identification Systems AFIS Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System IAFIS Eurodac Fingerprint Database or any other government biometric database. In another embodiment the biometric database can be a privately built and maintained biometric database for example created by an employer containing biometric data of employees. The biometric database compares the received biometric signal with stored data e.g. biometric and identifying information of subjects and transmits the results of the search back to the first node or other nodes for example. In one embodiment biometric database transmits the results of the search to the first node . In one embodiment the first node can then display the match information to the police officer for example by displaying the subject s identity on the screen of an in car laptop computer.

The capacitive biometric sensor operates as follows a suspect places a biometric signature e.g. finger with fingerprint or palm with palm print on top of an insulating layer . A switch is closed by the sensor causing a short circuit between the inverting terminal and the output voltage . This causes the circuit to be in a balanced state wherein the output voltage is equal to the reference voltage . The switch is then opened which causes the reference voltage to charge the first and second capacitive plates A and B. The presence of a biometric signature e.g. finger with fingerprint acts as a third capacitive plate and causes the capacitance of the feedback loop to vary. The capacitance varies with respect to whether a biometric ridge or valley is present. The variance in capacitance between the first and second capacitive plates A B and the biometric signature causes a variation in the voltage at the inverting terminal which in turn causes a variation in the output voltage . This variation can be interpreted by the signal processing module as indicating a ridge or valley of a biometric signature. Referring back to a complete image of the suspect s biometric signature is developed by the signal processing module by interpreting the output voltage of each of the capacitive elements in the array of the capacitive biometric sensor .

In one embodiment the insulating layer may comprise a transparent conducting film TCF which may be fabricated from either organic or inorganic materials. Inorganic films may comprise a layer of transparent conducting oxide TCO generally in the form of indium tin oxide ITO fluorine doped tin oxide FTO and doped zinc oxide. Organic films may be constructed of carbon nanotube networks and graphene. Transparent conducting films act both as a window for light to pass through to the active material beneath and as an ohmic contact for carrier transport out of the photovoltaic. Transparent materials possess bandgaps with energies corresponding to wavelengths which are shorter than the visible range 380 nm to 750 nm . As such photons with energies below the bandgap are not collected by these materials and this visible light passes through.

In one embodiment the insulating layer may comprise a transparent conductive oxide. Transparent conductive oxides TCO are doped metal oxides used in optoelectronic devices. TCO films may be fabricated with polycrystalline or amorphous microstructures. TCO films may use electrode materials that have greater than 80 transmittance of incident light for example as well as conductiveness higher than 10S cm for example. The transmittance of TCO films just as in any transparent material is limited by light scattering at defects and grain boundaries. Mobility in TCO films is limited by ionized impurity scattering and may be on the order of 40 cm V s for example. In one embodiment TCO films may be made from n type conductors. TCO films may be manufactured from for example tin doped indium oxide ITO aluminum doped zinc oxide AZO or indium doped cadmium oxide or binary metal oxides without any intentional impurity doping. Binary metal oxides may be n type with a carrier concentration on the order of 10cm.

Doped metal oxides for use as transparent conducting layers may be grown on glass substrates. The glass substrate apart from providing a support that the oxide can grow on has the additional benefit of blocking most infrared wavelengths greater than 2 m for most silicates and converting it to heat in the glass layer. This process helps maintain a low temperature of active region of the TCO. TCO films may be deposited on a substrate through various deposition methods including metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD metal organic molecular beam deposition MOMBD spray pyrolysis pulsed laser deposition PLD or magnetron sputtering of the film. Magnetron sputtering is very inefficient with only 30 of the material actually being deposited on the substrate. In the case of ITO this inefficiency is a significant drawback. TCO growth may be performed in a reducing environment to encourage oxygen vacancy formation within the film which contribute to the carrier concentration if n type .

Charge carriers in these oxides arise from three fundamental sources interstitial metal ion impurities oxygen vacancies and doping ions. The first two sources always act as electron donors. In one embodiment TCO films may be fabricated solely using these two intrinsic sources as carrier generators. When an oxygen vacancy is present in the lattice it acts as a doubly charged electron donor. In ITO for example each oxygen vacancy causes the neighboring In3 ion 5s orbitals to be stabilized from the 5s conduction band by the missing bonds to the oxygen ion while two electrons are trapped at the site due to charge neutrality effects. The stabilization of the 5s orbitals causes a formation of donor level for the oxygen ion determined to be 0.03 eV below the conduction band.

Dopant ionization within the oxide occurs in the same way as in other semiconductor crystals. Shallow donors near the conduction band n type allow electrons to be thermally excited into the conduction band while acceptors near the valence band p type allow electrons to jump from the valence band to the acceptor level populating the valence band with holes. Charged impurity ions and point defects have scattering cross sections that are much greater than their neutral counterparts. Increasing the scattering decreases the mean free path of the carriers in the oxide which leads to poor device performance and a high resistivity.

In one embodiment the insulating layer may comprise a transparent conducting polymer. Transparent conducting polymers TCP have conjugated double bonds which allow for conduction. The effective bandgap is the separation between the highest occupied molecular orbital and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital. TCPs have conductivity below that of TCOs and have low absorption of the visible spectrum allowing them to act as transparent conductors. The TCPs can be made into flexible films making them desirable despite their low conductivity. This makes them useful in the development of flexible electronics such as biometric sensors where traditional transparent conductors will fail. TCP films may be fabricated from for example Poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene PEDOT doped PEDOT with poly styrene sulfonate Poly 4 4 ethylenedioxythiophene or Poly 4 4 ethylenedioxythiophene doped with iodine or 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyano 1 4 benzoquinone DDQ .

In one embodiment the insulating layer may comprise a carbon nanotube CNT film. CNT films have high elastic modulus high tensile strength and high conductivity. CNT films may be prepared in three steps the CNT growth process putting the CNTs in solution and finally creation of the CNT thin film. Nanotubes may be grown using laser ablation electric arc discharge or different form of chemical vapor deposition. Density gradient ultracentrifugation DGU may be applied to separate CNTs by density. In order to separate the grown tubes the CNTs are mixed with surfactant and water and sonicated until satisfactory separation occurs. This solution is then sprayed onto the desired substrate in order to create a CNT thin film. The film is then rinsed in water in order to get rid of excess surfactant.

In one embodiment the imaging surface may comprise a transparent conducting film TCF which may be fabricated from either organic or inorganic materials. Inorganic films may be constructed of a layer of transparent conducting oxide TCO generally in the form of indium tin oxide ITO fluorine doped tin oxide FTO and doped zinc oxide. Organic films may be constructed of carbon nanotube networks and graphene. Transparent conducting folms act both as a window for light to pass through to the active material beneath and as an ohmic contact for carrier transport out of the photovoltaic. Transparent materials possess bandgaps with energies corresponding to wavelengths which are shorter than the visible range 380 nm to 750 nm . As such photons with energies below the bandgap are not collected by these materials and this visible light passes through.

In operation an array of thermal sensors may be surreptitiously integrated with a contact surface such as a wall or a vehicle hood. The sensors generate a temperature difference between the sensor and the suspect s biometric signature. The sensors then monitor the rate at which heat is drawn away from the sensor and into the biometric signature. Where a ridge of the biometric signature is in contact with the imaging surface heats is transferred at a higher rate. Where a valley of the biometric signature is located there exists a layer a insulating air between the sensor and the biometric signature and therefore heat is transferred at a slower rate allowing the sensor to build an image of the biometric signature.

In operation the ultrasonic sensor functions by using the piezoelectric elements to generate sonic waves. These waves are transmitted through the shield layer and come into contact with a suspect s biometric signature. The sonic waves are then reflected at varying speeds and frequencies which can be captured by the conductors and used to generate a signal representing the biometric signature placed on the shield layer .

In another embodiment a surreptitious biometric acquisition apparatus may be installed on an automated teller machine ATM for use in bank access and security. The surreptitious biometric acquisition apparatus could function to ensure that only an authorized user such as a person who has registered their biometric data with the financial institution is able to access a specific account. This would assist in situations where a suspect has stolen an ATM card and is attempting to access an account illegally. The surreptitious biometric acquisition apparatus may log the suspect s information or may prevent access to an account by an unauthorized person.

Various elements of the fingerprinting apparatus system and method disclosed herein may be implemented in a dedicated or general purpose computing environment comprising a computing device one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices.

In one embodiment a processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or modules to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device. The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device includes single processor architecture as shown it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device such as a DSP in accordance with the described embodiments.

The processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through a bus. The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be separate from the processing unit it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit. Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit. In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk etc. . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

One or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card etc. . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit. The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit. The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device. In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device. For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example using products known to those skilled in the art under the following trade designations Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OSTM Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS Android OS Apple OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software program modules and or engines being executed by a computer. Generally software program modules and or engines include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software program modules and or engines can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software program modules and or engines components and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software program modules and or engines may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional components software engines and or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components software engines and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In other embodiments the functional components such as software engines and or modules may be implemented by hardware elements that may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Examples of software engines and or modules may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate example implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in one aspect in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention representative illustrative methods and materials are now described.

It is noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual aspects described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several aspects without departing from the scope of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible.

In the foregoing specification various specific embodiments of a fingerprinting apparatus system and method have been disclosed. It will be evident that various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the fingerprinting apparatus system and method as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings of this disclosure should be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

