---

title: Risk mitigation for autonomous vehicles relative to oncoming objects
abstract: Arrangements related to mitigating risk for an autonomous vehicle with respect to oncoming objects are described. An oncoming object in an external environment of the autonomous vehicle can be detected. It can be determined whether the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. Responsive to determining that the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior, an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle while maintaining safe operation of the autonomous vehicle can be determined. At least a portion of the altered travel route can safely violate a traffic rule. The autonomous vehicle can be caused to implement the altered travel route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573592&OS=09573592&RS=09573592
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09573592
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141223
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles having an autonomous operational mode and more particularly to the operation of such vehicles relative to oncoming objects.

Some vehicles include sensors that are configured to detect information about the surrounding environment. Computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle through the surrounding environment. Some vehicles include driver assist systems that can help to avoid collisions with objects detected in the surrounding environment. Depending on the circumstances the driver assist system may activate only the brakes or it may also steer the vehicle away from the object if sufficient space is available.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of mitigating risk for an autonomous vehicle relative to oncoming objects. The method can include detecting an oncoming object in an external environment of the autonomous vehicle. The method can also include determining whether the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. The method can further include responsive to determining that the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior determining an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle while maintaining safe operation of the autonomous vehicle. At least a portion of the altered travel route can include safely violating a traffic rule. The method includes causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the altered travel route.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for mitigating risk for an autonomous vehicle relative to oncoming objects. The system includes a sensor system and a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The sensor system can be operable to detect an oncoming object in an external environment of the autonomous vehicle. The processor is programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining whether the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. The executable operations can also include responsive to determining that the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior determining an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle while maintaining safe operation of the autonomous vehicle. At least a portion of the altered travel route can include safely violating a traffic rule. The executable operations can include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the altered travel route.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a computer program product for mitigating risk for an autonomous vehicle relative to oncoming objects. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith. The program code is executable by a processor to perform a method. The method can include detecting an oncoming object in an external environment of the autonomous vehicle. The method can also include determining whether the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. The method can further include responsive to determining that the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior determining an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle while maintaining safe operation of the autonomous vehicle. At least a portion of the altered travel route can include safely violating a traffic rule. The method can include causing the autonomous vehicle to implement the altered travel route.

This detailed description relates to mitigating risk for an autonomous vehicle relative to oncoming objects in an environment external of the autonomous vehicle. More particularly it can be determined whether an oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Responsive to determining that the detected oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle can be determined. At least a portion of the altered travel route can include safely violating a traffic rule. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can improve safety and or performance of an autonomous vehicle.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In some implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport.

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode. Autonomous mode means that one or more computing systems are used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be highly automated. In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver.

The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal axis which can be the central axis of the vehicle . The vehicle can have an associated longitudinal direction . Longitudinal direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or co linear with the longitudinal axis . The vehicle can have an associated lateral axis which can be substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis . As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus the term substantially perpendicular means exactly perpendicular and slight variations therefrom. In this particular example slight variations therefrom can include within normal manufacturing tolerances within about 10 degrees or less within about 5 degrees or less within about 4 degrees or less within about 3 degrees or less within about 2 degrees or less or within about 1 degree or less. The vehicle can have an associated lateral direction . Lateral direction means any direction that is substantially parallel to and or co linear with the lateral axis .

The vehicle can include various elements some of which may be a part of an autonomous driving system. Some of the possible elements of the vehicle are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit ECU .

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include an autonomous driving module . The autonomous driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement various processes described herein including for example determining an altered travel route for the autonomous vehicle and implementing the determined altered travel route. The autonomous driving module can be a component of the processor or the autonomous driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The autonomous driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include a hazardous behavior module . The hazardous behavior module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement the various processes described herein. The hazardous behavior module can be a component of the processor or the hazardous behavior module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The hazardous behavior module can be configured to detect analyze assess and or interpret information about a detected oncoming object to determine whether such oncoming object is exhibiting hazardous behavior. As used herein oncoming object is an object that is being approached by a moving vehicle and that is itself moving toward the vehicle in a direction that is generally opposite to a travel direction of the vehicle. shows an example of a scenario in which the oncoming object is another vehicle that is traveling generally in a second direction that is opposite to a first direction in which the vehicle is traveling. The oncoming object is located forward of the vehicle in the travel direction of the vehicle . Oncoming objects can include objects that are moving toward the vehicle in a direction that is generally opposite to a travel direction of the vehicle but come to a stop in the current travel path of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the oncoming object can be another vehicle including autonomous vehicles and non autonomous vehicles.

Again it can be determined whether an oncoming object is exhibiting hazardous behavior. The hazardous behavior module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to analyze assess and or interpret data information acquired by a sensor system of the vehicle to determine whether an oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

As used herein hazardous behavior means the oncoming object is located in the current travel path of the vehicle and or is moving in a direction or in a manner that would cause the oncoming object and the vehicle to come substantially close to each other. Substantially close means that the vehicle and the oncoming object would contact each other and or would be located within a predetermined distance of each other. The predetermined distance can be any suitable value including for example about 20 feet or less about 15 feet or less about 10 feet or less about 5 feet or less about 4 feet or less about 3 feet or less about 2 feet or less or about 1 foot or less.

The determination of whether an oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior can be made in any suitable manner. In one or more arrangements the hazardous behavior module can determine whether an oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior by predicting whether the oncoming object and the vehicle will be substantially close to each other along their predicted travel routes. Such a prediction can be made based on one or more factors including for example the current travel route of the vehicle e.g. current location future driving maneuvers and or current or future vehicle speed the current trajectory of the vehicle the current speed of the vehicle the current location of the oncoming object the current trajectory of the oncoming object and or the current speed of the oncoming object just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements artificial or computational intelligence algorithms or machine learning approaches can be used for predicting whether the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. If it is predicted that the oncoming object and the vehicle will come substantially close to each other then it can be determined that the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior.

In one or more arrangements the hazardous behavior module can determine whether an oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior based on the actual or predicted position s and or movement s of the oncoming object. For instance if the oncoming object at least partially crosses over into a current travel lane of the vehicle then the oncoming object can be determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Alternatively if the oncoming object is moving in manner such that it predicted to cross at least partially into a current travel lane of the vehicle then the oncoming object can be determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior.

Alternatively if the oncoming object is moving in manner that violates a traffic rule or is threatening to violate a traffic rule then the oncoming object can be determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Examples of traffic rule violations include traveling at a speed that exceeds the posted speed limit changing travel lanes without using a turn signal passing through a stop sign or a red traffic light without stopping failing to drive within a single travel lane and or crossing over a center divider or median just to name a few possibilities. If an oncoming object is detected or determined to be violating a traffic rule then the oncoming object can be determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior. One example of an oncoming object that is threatening to violate a traffic rule is when the object is approaching a stop sign without decreasing its current speed or even increasing its speed.

In one or more arrangements which can be as an alternative or in addition to the above the oncoming object can be determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior if the movement of the oncoming object is erratic. The oncoming object can be considered to be moving erratically in any suitable manner. For instance the oncoming object can be considered to be moving erratically if the movements meet one or more predefined criterions. One example of a predefined criterion is substantial changes in the direction of movement of the object. One example of a substantial change in movement includes the object quickly shifting or moving to the left of the object and then suddenly shifting or moving to the right. Another example of a substantial change in movement includes exhibiting oscillatory motion a current travel lane of the object or the object moving in and out of its current travel lane. Still another example of a substantial change in movement includes shifting or moving toward the vehicle .

Another example of a predefined criterion can be if substantial changes in the direction of movement of the object occur within a predetermined number of times within a predetermined amount of time. In such case it can be determined that the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. For instance if an oncoming object changes directions 3 or more times within a predetermined amount of time e.g. about 15 seconds about 10 seconds about 5 seconds etc. then it can be determined that the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. As another example if the oncoming object is detected to be changing travel lanes at a high frequency e.g. if it changes travel lanes a predetermined number of times within a predetermined amount of time then it can be determined that the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. As another example if the oncoming object is detected as making one or more sudden movements then it can be determined that the oncoming object is exhibiting a hazardous behavior.

Alternatively or in addition the oncoming object can be considered to be moving erratically if it is moving in a swerving manner sliding manner or other erratic manner. Swerving or erratic movement can be identified by comparing the detected movement of the oncoming object to one or more predefined erratic movement profiles. The hazardous behavior module can be operatively connected to a set of predefined erratic movement profiles . In one or more arrangements the set of predefined erratic movement profiles can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . In one or more arrangements the set of predefined erratic movement profiles can be included as part of the hazardous behavior module . In one or more arrangements one or more of the set of predefined erratic movement profiles can be directed to sliding motions such as may occur when an oncoming object is moving on a wet icy or snowy road. In one or more arrangements one or more of the set of predefined erratic movement profiles can be directed to swerving motions such as may occur when an oncoming object is being operated by an intoxicated drowsy and or distracted driver.

In one or more arrangements the hazardous behavior module can be configured to compare a detected movement of an oncoming object to a set of predefined erratic movement profiles to determine if there is a match. Match or matches means that the detected movement of an oncoming object and one of the predefined erratic movement profiles in the set of predefined erratic movement profiles are identical. In some embodiments match or matches can also mean that the detected movement of the oncoming object and one of the predefined erratic movement profiles in the set of predefined erratic movement profiles are substantially identical. For instance the detected movement of the oncoming object and one of the predefined erratic movement profiles in the set of predefined erratic movement profiles can match within a predetermined probability e.g. at least about 80 at least about 85 at least about 90 at least about 95 or greater or confidence level. In one or more arrangements the determination of the extent to which the detected movement of the oncoming object matches with one of the predefined erratic movement profiles can be performed using artificial or computational intelligence algorithms or machine learning methods.

The vehicle can include a traffic rules module . The traffic rules module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement the various processes described herein. For instance the traffic rules module can be configured to determine whether a detected object is in compliance with one or more traffic rules. Alternatively or in addition the traffic rules module can be configured to determine whether the vehicle is currently operating in compliance with one or more traffic rules. Alternatively or in addition the traffic rules module can be configured to determine whether at least a portion of a current travel route of the vehicle and or a determined altered travel route would violate one or more traffic rules. The traffic rules module can be a component of the processor or the traffic rules module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

In one or more arrangements the traffic rules module can be operatively connected to one or more traffic rules libraries . The one or more traffic rules libraries can be included as part of one or more of the data stores . The traffic rules library can include a set of traffic rules. The term set of traffic rules means one or more traffic rules. As used herein Traffic rule is any law rule ordinance or authority that governs the operation of a motor vehicle including motor vehicles in motion and motor vehicles that are parked or otherwise not in motion. The traffic rules can be international federal national state city township and or local laws rules ordinances and or authorities.

As noted above the vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense something. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process.

In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other. Alternatively two or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. In such case the two or more sensors can form a sensor network. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the autonomous driving module and or other element of the vehicle and or an autonomous driving system.

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the external environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the external environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle and or the location of objects in the environment relative to the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more environment sensors . The environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense objects in at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle and or information data about such objects. Various examples of the environment sensors will be described herein. However it will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . The one or more radio based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part lasers. For instance one or more of the environment sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode. The one or more laser based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part ultrasound. Such sensors can include an ultrasound source configured to emit ultrasonic signals and a detector configured to detect reflections of the ultrasonic signal. The one or more ultrasound based environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object. Such detecting can be based on a characteristic e.g. the intensity of a reflected ultrasonic signal.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more aspects characteristics and or properties of a detected object. For example the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size relative size length width height a dimension the material a material property the speed the acceleration and or the trajectory of a detected object. In one or more arrangements one or more artificial or computational algorithms or machine learning methods can be used for such purposes.

Alternatively or in addition to any of the sensors described above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle one or more sensors can be located on the exterior of the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located so as to be exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The autonomous driving module the hazardous behavior module the traffic rules module and or the processor can be configured to analyze information data captured by the sensor system with respect to oncoming objects in the external environment. For instance the hazardous behavior module can analyze information data captured by the sensor system to determine whether the oncoming object is exhibiting hazardous behavior.

The vehicle can include a camera system . In one or more arrangements the camera system can be a part of the sensor system . The camera system can include a one or more cameras . Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture visual data. Visual data includes video and or image information data. The visual data can be in any suitable form.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can include a lens not shown and an image capture element not shown . The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capture element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capture element may capture color images and or grayscale images. One or more of the cameras can be configured with zoom in and or zoom out capabilities.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras can be externally facing. Externally facing means a camera that is oriented positioned configured operable and or arranged to capture visual data from at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle . The one or more cameras can be located in any suitable portion of the vehicle . For instance one or more of the cameras can be located within the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on the exterior of the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The position of one or more of the cameras can be fixed such that its position does not change relative to the vehicle . One or more of the cameras can be movable so that its position can change to allow visual data from different portions of the external environment of the vehicle to be captured. The movement of such cameras can be achieved in any suitable manner. For instance the cameras can be rotatable about one or more axes pivotable slidable and or extendable just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements the cameras can have any suitable range of motion including for example substantially spherical substantially hemi spherical substantially circular and or substantially linear.

The one or more cameras and or the movements of the one or more cameras can be controlled by the camera system the sensor system the processor and or any one or more of the modules .

The autonomous driving module the hazardous behavior module the traffic rules module and or the processor can be configured to analyze visual data captured by the camera system to identify one or more oncoming objects in the external environment. In some arrangements one or more of these elements can be configured to identify the nature of the oncoming objects e.g. whether the oncoming object is a vehicle using any suitable technique including for example template matching and other kinds of computer vision and or image processing techniques and or other artificial or computational intelligence algorithms or machine learning methods.

The vehicle can include an input system for receiving input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system for presenting information to the driver or passenger. The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable type of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane hydrogen other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels tires and or tracks. Any suitable type of wheels tires and or tracks can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle . The wheels tires and or tracks can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the autonomous driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the autonomous driving module . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

According to arrangements described herein the vehicle can be configured for risk mitigation with respect to oncoming objects. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be configured so that responsive to determining that an oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior an altered travel route is determined for the vehicle . While such a determination is made safe operation of the vehicle can be maintained. Maintaining safe operation of the autonomous vehicle means that the forward movement of the vehicle is continued while avoiding contact with another object in the external environment. The forward movement can be continued at the same speed a reduced speed or even an increased speed.

In one or more arrangements the processor the autonomous driving module the navigation system and or other element can be configured to determine an altered travel route responsive to determining that an oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. In this context altered travel route means that the vehicle continues generally along its current travel route but is altered to include a change in the movement of the vehicle to avoid oncoming objects exhibiting hazardous behaviors and or to maintain a predetermined distance from oncoming objects exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Examples of a change in movement can include moving the vehicle substantially in the lateral direction away from the oncoming object. The altered travel route can include maintaining safe operation of the vehicle .

At least a portion of the altered travel route can include safely violating a traffic rule. Examples of violating a traffic rule include driving at least partially on a shoulder of a road exceeding the speed limit driving at least partially on an emergency lane passing in a non passing travel lane changing lanes without signaling and or driving at least partially off the road just to name a few possibilities. Safely violate a traffic rule means that the operation of the vehicle according to the altered travel route would violate a traffic rule but it would not result in damage injury or endangerment of the vehicle its occupants or persons or property located in the external environment e.g. by collision . If at least a portion of an altered travel route would violate a traffic rule but would also result in an object in the external environment being struck by the vehicle then the altered travel route would not be considered to safely violate a traffic rule.

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components of the vehicle have been described various methods for an autonomous vehicle to mitigate risk relative to an oncoming object will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of mitigating risk relative to an oncoming object is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block the external environment of the vehicle can be detected to determine if there is an oncoming object therein. In one or more arrangements the detecting of the external environment can be performed by one or more sensors of the sensor system such as the environment sensor s and or by the camera system . In some arrangements the detecting of the external environment can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval.

If an oncoming object is detected in the external environment the method can continue to block . If no oncoming objects are detected in the external environment the method can return to block or the method can end.

At block it can be determined whether the detected oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior. If it is determined that the oncoming object is not exhibiting a hazardous behavior the method can return to block or block or the method can end. If an oncoming object is determined to be exhibiting a hazardous behavior the method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that the oncoming object exhibits a hazardous behavior an altered travel route for the vehicle can be determined. At least a portion of the altered travel route can safely violate a traffic rule. Safe operation of the vehicle can be maintained. The method can continue to block .

At block the vehicle can be caused to implement the altered travel route. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to implement the altered travel route. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the altered travel route. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the altered travel route.

When the altered travel route is implemented the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . In some instances once the vehicle has passed the oncoming object the vehicle can return to the travel route that was implemented prior to the implementation of the altered travel route the altered travel route can be discontinued or the altered travel route can be continued.

It should be noted that in one or more arrangements a driver or other passenger of the vehicle can be prompted to provide permission to implement the altered travel route. In some arrangements such prompting may occur only if it is determined that there is sufficient time to receive a responsive input from the driver or passenger to implement the altered travel route.

The driver or other passenger can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance the prompt can be displayed on a display in the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the driver or other passenger over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to these forms of prompting.

The driver or passenger can grant or deny permission to implement the altered travel route in any suitable manner. For instance the driver or passenger can input the grant or denial of permission using one or more components of the input system . As an example the driver or passenger can provide an input through a touch screen button switch or other in vehicle user interface element. In some arrangements the driver or passenger can provide an input through engagement with one or more vehicle components e.g. turn signal brake pedal gas pedal etc. . A user interface element is defined as a component or a group of components that enables a user to interact with a machine. In one or more arrangements the driver or passenger can provide an input by speaking whether permission is granted or denied.

If an input is received granting permission the method can continue to block where as noted above the altered travel route can be implemented. If an input is received denying permission then the vehicle can take any suitable action such as presenting a warning switching to manual operation determining a different altered travel route or a system default action.

If an input is not received from the driver or passenger the vehicle can be automatically caused to implement the altered travel route or another system default driving action. In some arrangements a predetermined amount of time can be given for the driver or passenger to provide an input. The predetermined amount of time can be any suitable amount of time. The predetermined amount of time can vary depending on the circumstances in the environment. If an input is not received within the predetermined amount of time the altered travel route can be implemented or another system default driving action can be implemented.

A non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in an environment on a road . Road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. The road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances the road may be unpaved or undeveloped. The road may be a public road or a private road. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads.

The road can be designated for two way travel including a first travel lane and a second travel lane . A travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked.

For purposes of this example vehicles can move in a first direction in the first travel lane and vehicles can move in a second direction in the second travel lane . The first direction can be substantially opposition to the second direction as is shown in . The road can also include a first shoulder and a second shoulder . The first shoulder can be adjacent to the first travel lane . The second shoulder can be adjacent to the second travel lane .

While show an example in which the road includes two travel lanes it will be understood that arrangements described herein are not limited to roads having two travel lanes. Indeed arrangements described herein can be used in connection with roads having any number of travel lanes. Further it should be noted that the vehicles in adjacent travel lanes may travel in the same direction or the vehicles in adjacent travel lanes may travel in opposite directions.

In the current travel lane of the vehicle can be the first travel lane . Current travel lane means a travel lane that a vehicle is traveling on at the present time. The vehicle can detect the environment such as by using the sensor system and or the camera system . The vehicle can detect the presence of an oncoming object e.g. oncoming vehicle in the second travel lane .

The vehicle can determine whether the oncoming vehicle is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Such a determination can be made in any suitable manner including in any of the ways described above. For this example a trajectory of the oncoming vehicle can be predicted. Such a prediction can be made in any suitable manner. For instance the prediction can be made by extrapolating the recent movements of the oncoming vehicle . In the scenario shown in the trajectory can be predicted to include crossing at least partially into the first travel lane . As a result of such a prediction it can be determined that the oncoming vehicle is exhibiting a hazardous behavior. Again it will be understood that this is merely one example of a way in which an oncoming object can exhibit hazardous behavior and a way in which exhibiting hazardous behavior can be determined. Arrangements are not limited in this example. The determination of whether the oncoming vehicle is exhibiting a hazardous behavior can be performed by the processor and or the hazardous behavior module .

Responsive to such determination an altered travel route for the vehicle can be determined. In the scenario presented in the altered travel route may include moving the vehicle away from the oncoming vehicle substantially in the lateral direction . The vehicle can move any suitable distance substantially in the lateral direction and or can cause the vehicle move the suitable distance within any suitable amount of time. For instance based on one or more factors e.g. the speed of the vehicle and or the oncoming vehicle the trajectory of the oncoming vehicle the distance between the vehicle and the oncoming vehicle a minimum lateral distance see can be maintained between the vehicle and oncoming vehicle . The determination of the altered travel route can be made by the autonomous driving module the navigation system and or the processor .

At least a portion of the altered travel route can include a violation of a traffic rule. In this example the altered travel route can include the vehicle driving at least partially on the first shoulder . However it will be understood that driving at least partially on the first shoulder is merely one example of a way in which a traffic rule can be violated. Further it can be determined that the violation of the traffic rule can be performed safely. That is the vehicle does not detect the presence of any other objects on the first shoulder for at least the portion s of the altered travel route that includes driving on the first shoulder .

While the determination of the altered travel route is made the safe operation of the vehicle can be maintained. Thus in one or more arrangements forward motion of the vehicle does not stop. For instance the forward movement of the vehicle in the first direction can be continued.

The vehicle can be caused such as by the processor the autonomous driving module and or the actuators to implement the determined altered travel route. An example of the vehicle implementing the altered travel route is shown in . As shown the oncoming vehicle crosses partially into the first travel lane . The vehicle can move away from the oncoming vehicle substantially in the lateral direction . The vehicle can travel at least partially on the first shoulder . In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be moved substantially in the lateral direction to maintain the minimum lateral distance between the vehicle and the oncoming vehicle as they pass each other.

Once the vehicle has passed the oncoming vehicle the vehicle can return to the first travel lane . The vehicle can continue to detect the environment for other oncoming objects.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle by mitigating risk with respect to oncoming objects. Arrangements described herein can improve safety for autonomous vehicles by avoiding oncoming objects that are determined to be exhibiting hazardous behavior. Further arrangements described herein can provide for greater flexibility in the operation of the autonomous vehicle e.g. by violating a traffic rule while maintaining safety for the vehicle occupants of the vehicle oncoming objects and other objects in the external environment of the autonomous vehicle.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied or embedded e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

