---

title: Spatially-controlled synthesis of palladium—rhodium hetero-nanostructures
abstract: In a method of generating a nanocrystal with a core-frame structure, a seed crystal, including a first substance, is exposed to a capping agent. The seed nanocrystal has a plurality of first portions that each has a first characteristic and a plurality of second portions that each has a second characteristic, different from the first characteristic. The capping agent has a tendency to adsorb to portions having the first characteristic and has a tendency not to adsorb to portions having the second characteristic. As a result, a selectively capped seed nanocrystal is generated. The selectively capped seed nanocrystal is exposed to a second substance that has a tendency to nucleate on the plurality of second portions and that does not have a tendency to nucleate on portions that have adsorbed the capping agent, thereby generating a frame structure from the plurality of second portions of the seed nanocrystal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023223&OS=09023223&RS=09023223
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09023223
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140909
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 875 896 filed Sep. 10 2013 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DMR 1215034 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to nanocrystal growth and more specifically to a method of generating nanocrystal frame structures.

Manipulating the morphology structure and composition of noble metal nanocrystals offers a powerful means to tailor and improve their properties for a myriad of applications such as catalysis plasmonics and biomedicine. In particular bimetallic and trimetallic nanocrystals have drawn interest owning to their abundant variations in compositions and spatial distributions. Compared to monometallic nanocrystals the electronic coupling between the two constituent metals of a bimetallic nanocrystal can dramatically improve their catalytic performance or even initiate new features. For example the oxygen reduction reaction activity catalyzed by PtNi 111 surface holds a 90 fold gain over the state of art Pt C electrocatalyst. Moreover the localized surface plasmon resonance peaks of Au Ag nanocages can be tuned in a wide range by adjusting the ratio of Au Ag. These advances demonstrated the significance of rational design of bimetallic nanocrystals with new structures and highlighted properties to fit a specific application.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of generating a nanocrystal with a core frame structure in which a seed crystal including a first substance is exposed to a capping agent. The seed nanocrystal has a plurality of first portions that each has a first characteristic and a plurality of second portions that each has a second characteristic different from the first characteristic. The capping agent has a tendency to adsorb to portions having the first characteristic and has a tendency not to adsorb to portions having the second characteristic. As a result a selectively capped seed nanocrystal is generated. The selectively capped seed nanocrystal is exposed to a second substance that has a tendency to nucleate on the plurality of second portions and that does not have a tendency to nucleate on portions that have adsorbed the capping agent thereby generating a frame structure from the plurality of second portions of the seed nanocrystal.

In another aspect the invention is a method of generating a cubic frame structure in which a plurality of Pd palladium nanocrystals having a cubic shape is exposed to a solution including Br bromide ions for a time sufficient so that the Br ions are adsorbed to a 100 family of crystal facets on the Pd nanocrystals so as to form selectively capped nanocrystals. A solution including a salt precursor to Rh rhodium is added to the selectively capped nanocrystals at a rate that causes Rh atoms derived from the precursor to nucleate from edges and corners of the Pd nanocrystals so as to generate a core frame structure affixed to the edges and corners of the Pd nanocrystals. Pd is then etched from the core frame nanocrystals so as to leave a plurality of cubic Rh frame structures.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of generating a cuboctahedral core frame structure in which a plurality of Pd nanocrystals having a cuboctahedral shape is exposed to a solution including Br ions for a sufficient time so that the Br ions are adsorbed to a 100 family of crystal facets on the Pd nanocrystals so as to form selectively capped nanocrystals. A solution including a salt precursor to Rh is added to the selectively capped nanocrystals at a rate that causes Rh atoms to nucleate from a 111 family of crystal facets on the Pd nanocrystals so as to generate a frame structure affixed to the 111 family of crystal facets of the Pd nanocrystals.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

A Rh frame structure can be generated by adsorbing a capping agent such as a solution including bromide ions Br to the 100 facets of at least one Pd seed nanocrystal leaving the edges and corners uncapped as shown in and . The nanocrystal is then exposed to a solution that includes a Rh precursor as shown in . As a result Rh atoms derived from the precursor will nucleate on the edges and corners thereby forming frame structure around the Pd nanocrystal as shown in and . The combined nanocrystal and frame structure is referred to as a core frame structure . Pd can be etched from the core frame structure to leave a void surrounded by the frame structure as shown in and .

In one embodiment as shown in a cuboctahedral Pd crystal with six 100 facets and eight 111 facets can be exposed to a capping agent so that the capping agent adheres to the 100 facets . The capped crystal is then exposed to a Rh precursor which results in Rh nucleation on the 111 facets . In one embodiment if the Rh precursor is applied at a first rate and a relatively low temperature e.g. Rh precursor applied at 4.0 mL hour and 140 C. then the nucleation will form islands of Rh on the exposed facets. In another embodiment if the Rh precursor is applied at a second rate and a at a relatively high temperature e.g. Rh precursor applied at 1.0 mL hour and 180 C. then the nucleation will demonstrated layered growth to form pyramids extending from the exposed facets.

In one embodiment as shown in the 100 facets of Pd nanocubes are prepared by reducing NaPdClwith L ascorbic acid AA in an aqueous solution containing bromide ions . A Pd Rh core frame structure is grown from the corners and edges of the nanocubes by exposing them to a salt precursor to Rh that includes NaRhClat a rate and temperature for an amount of time that will result in a desired core frame structure morphology. Pd is selectively etched from the core frame structure so as to leave a Rh frame structure .

In one experimental embodiment Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals were made from cuboctahedral Pd seed nanocrystals. For investigating the site selective overgrowth of the secondary metal atoms a seed with more than one type of crystallographic facets was used as such a seed crystal allows one to clarify the role of different crystallographic facets. Well defined cuboctahedral Pd nanocrystals which are enclosed by eight 111 facets and six 100 facets were chosen as the seeds to conduct the overgrowth of Rh. Pd Rh nanocrystals were obtained after the addition of 6.0 mL of NaRhClsolution in ethylene glycol EG 2.5 mg mL with a syringe pump at 4.0 mL h into a reaction solution containing KBr as the capping agent L ascorbic acid AA as the reductant and cuboctahedral Pd nanocrystals as the seeds. As a result multi pods were anchored on all the 111 surface of the cuboctahedral Pd seeds giving the cuboctahedral Pd Rh nanocrystals a partially rough appearance. No Rh atoms nucleated on 100 surfaces of the cuboctahedral Pd seeds. The main surface of the Rh portion was parallel to the 200 plane indicating the surface of the protruding Rh multi pods were dominated by 100 surface. The exposure of Rh100 surface could be attributed to the presence of Br ions in the reaction solution as Br ions are specific capping agents for Rh 100 surface. The orientation of the overgrown Rh portions were identical with the Pd cuboctahedral seeds. The results confirmed the successful spatially controlled overgrowth of Rh on the 111 surfaces of the cuboctahedral Pd nanocrystals and the preservation of Pd100 surfaces.

Also monitored was the growth process of these cuboctahedral Pd Rh nanocrystals when increasing amounts of NaRhClsolution in EG were added into the reaction solution. Aliquots of the reaction solution were taken out at various stages. When a relatively small amount of NaRhCl 1.0 mL 2.5 mg L was introduced into the reaction solution in the presence of KBr some salient islands emerged at the 111 surfaces while the 100 surfaces remained smooth. This observation demonstrated that the generated Rh atoms selectively deposited and nucleated on Pd111 surfaces at the early stage of the growth process. With the increasing addition of NaRhCl the number of salient islands on each 111 facet was increased. Subsequently the Rh salient islands continuously grew up and finally formed multi pods on each of the Pd 111 surfaces. During the entire overgrowth process the Pd100 surfaces preserved smooth resulting in a spatially controlled overgrowth of Rh atoms on Pd111 surfaces. The slow adding rate of NaRhClwas an important factor to avoid the self nucleation of the newly generated Rh atoms and enable the Rh atoms to nucleate and grow on the Pd seeds. In this condition as the concentration of the generated Rh atoms was much higher from the beginning most of them preferentially self nucleated and the following Rh atoms tended to grow on the small Rh seeds forming a large number of Rh nanocrystals. As a result very few Rh atoms overgrew on the cuboctahedral Pd seeds. If the NaRhClsolution was added at a slower rate 1.0 mL h the concentration of the generated Rh atoms was even lower. At the initial stage there would be fewer nucleation sites on each of the Pd111 surface. The continuous growth of Rh was also slowed down. As a result the number of the Rh pods on each of the Pd111 surface was decreased giving the final cuboctahedral Pd Rh nanocrystals a relative smooth appearance.

To further investigate the effect of different shapes of the Pd polyhedral seeds octahedral Pd nanocrystals and cubic Pd nanocrystals were used as the seeds to conduct the synthesis of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals in the presence of KBr. For the octahedral Pd seeds the surface was enclosed by eight Pd111 facets with small portion of 100 facets on the slight truncated vertexes. After adding 6.0 mL of NaRhClsolution 2.5 mg mL all the Pd111 surfaces were covered by a dense array of Rh salient pods indicating the nucleation and deposition of the generated Rh atoms on the entire Pd 111 surfaces. It was found that the small 100 surfaces at the vertexes were still kept smooth. A number of Rh salient islands emerged on all the Pd 111 surfaces confirming the nucleation and then overgrowth process. Compared to octahedral Pd nanocrystals cubic Pd nanocrystals were enclosed by six 100 surfaces with slight truncation at the corners and edges. The products turned to be Pd Rh core frame nanocubes with concave side faces. This core frame concave structure was generated by a selective deposition of Rh atoms only on the truncated corner and edge sites of the cubic Pd seeds.

The overgrowth of Rh atoms on Pd 100 surfaces with the three different Pd polyhedrons as the seeds cuboctahedral octahedral and cubic nanocrystals were all debarred in the presence of KBr. Similar spatially controlled Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals could also be obtained when KBr was substituted by an equimolar amount of NaBr. This site selective overgrowth of Rh atoms may be attributed to the blocking effect of Br ions by capping the Pd 100 facets. The addition of Bf ions can promote the formation of Pd 100 facets by the capping effect. The cubic Pd seeds used in the overgrowth of Rh were also synthesized with the capping of Bf ions. And the cuboctahedral and octahedral Pd nanocrystals were obtained from a secondary growth of the preformed Br capped cubic Pd nanocrystals in an aqueous solution without the addition of extra Br ions.

The surface capping agents of metallic nanocrystals could affect their secondary growth or reactions. For example the galvanic replacement reactions involved cubic metal templates could be precluded from starting at 100 surfaces by the protection of 100 with surface specific capping agents such as PVP or hexadecylamine. For further illuminating the blocking effect of Br ions by capping on Pd 100 surface a set of experiments was conducted to synthesize Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals using the three different polyhedral Pd seeds respectively without the addition of KBr. During the reaction the original layer of Br that capped on Pd 100 could dynamically drop out as the relative high temperature 140 C. leading to the weakening or disappearance of blocking effect. Without the addition of extra KBr both the 100 and 111 surfaces of the cuboctahedral Pd seeds were covered by a dense layer of Rh multi pods. As a result the integral morphology of the Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals from cuboctahedral Pd nanocrystals was identical to that from the octahedral Pd seeds. In the absence of capping agent the shape of these Rh multi pods was irregular. When cubic Pd nanocrystals was applied as the seeds in the absence of KBr beside on the corners and edges Rh multi pods also anchored on the side Pd100 surfaces. This morphological transition illuminated the blocking effect of Br ions by capping on Pd100 surface during the aforementioned spatially controlled overgrowth of Rh on Pd polyhedral seeds.

The premise of this spatially controlled synthesis of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals was the slow kinetics of generation of Rh atoms. As the reduction of NaRhCunder this synthetic condition was extremely fast the generation of Rh atoms could be completely manipulated by the injection rate of NaRhClsolution. The NaRhClsolution was added slowly 4 mL h 2.5 mg mL into the reacting system with a syringe pump. Once the NaRhClwas added into the reaction solution it was immediately reduced into Rh atoms which then deposited on the Pd seeds. Therefore the concentration of the newly generated Rh atoms was kept extremely low in the reaction solution which could effectively avoid the self nucleation and provide the Rh atoms the opportunity to nucleate and deposit on the surface of the Pd seeds and thus achieve the spatially selective overgrowth.

All the exposed Pd100 facets were capped and preserved by Br ions during the overgrowth process. The generated Rh atoms were caused to nucleate and deposit on the bare area for example 111 facets and truncated corners edges. In a seed mediate overgrowth for bimetallic nanocrystals the difference of the bond dissociation energies between the two involved metal elements could largely affect their heterogeneous nucleation and growth modes. For example Pd Pt dendritic core shell nanostructures could be obtained when Pt was reduced by a relative strong reducing agent and deposited on preformed Pd seeds because the bond dissociation energy of Pt Pt bond 307 kJ mol is much higher than that of Pt Pd 191 kJ mol and Pd Pd bonds 136 kJ mol . The heterogeneous nucleation and growth of Pt atoms on Pd surface was assigned to the island growth mode. The nucleation and growth of Rh on the substrate of Pd seeds also followed this island growth mode because of the relative high bond dissociation energy of Rh Rh 285 kJ mol and the large surface free energies of Rh. When cuboctahedral Pd nanocrystals were applied as the seeds because the Pd100 surfaces were blocked by the capping Br ions the generated Rh atoms were preferentially nucleated on Pd111 surfaces with multi sites forming salient Rh islands. And then the adding Rh atoms preferentially deposited and grew on these Rh islands as the strong Rh Rh interaction leaving Pd 100 surfaces uncovered. When octahedral Pd nanocrystals enclosed only by 111 facets were used as the seeds the Rh atoms would nucleate and deposit on the entire surface. However the generated Rh atoms could only deposit at the truncated corner and edge sites on the cubic Pd seeds whose 100 facets were covered by Br ions. The migration of initially deposited Rh atoms was involved to minimize the surface free energy as the corner and edge sites are much higher in energy. The surface migration let to the formation of Rh faces with smooth surfaces.

Rh frames from Pd Rh Bimetallic nanocrystals were generated through selective etching. One of the advantages from the spatial composition separation of a hybrid bimetallic nanocrystal is the difference in reactivity between the two metal components. For instance Rh possesses much higher oxidative corrosion resistance than Pd. The Pd cubic core could be selectively removed from the Pd Rh core frame nanocrystal to generate a cubic frame consisting of pure Rh. This selective etching was conducted in an aqueous solution based on the oxidation etchant of Fe Br pair. The structure of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals apparently determined the final structure of Rh nanoframes. The Rh nanoframes from cuboctahedral Pd Rh nanocrystals octahedral Pd Rh nanocrystals and cubic Pd Rh nanocrystals are referred to herein as cuboctahedral Rh NFs octahedral Rh NFs and Cub Rh NFs respectively. For the cuboctahedral Rh NFs as no Rh grew on the 100 facets of the Pd cores large caves emerged at the region of bare Pd100 facets after the dissolution of Pd cores. For the octahedral Rh NFs all the frame walls consisted of a dense array of Rh pods without apparent holes on the surface taking an integral octahedral nanocage structure. As the entire 100 surfaces of Pd cores were exposed in cubic Pd Rh nanocrystals the cubic Rh NFs resulted in a cubic skeleton frame structure with great open degree after the removal of Pd cores. These Rh frame structures may have great potential in catalytic applications owning to their large surface area and unique hollow open structures.

Spatially controlled synthesis of Pd Rh nanocrystals was achieved through a site selective overgrowth of Rh atoms on polyhedral Pd seeds. Three types of Pd polyhedrons including Pd cuboctahedrons Pd octahedrons and Pd cubes have been applied as the seeds to illuminate the effects of the seed shapes and the capping agents. Under the kinetic control and the presence of Br ions Rh atoms selectively nucleated and deposited on the 111 facets of cuboctahedral Pd and octahedral Pd seeds or only at the corner and edge sites of cubic Pd seeds. This selective overgrowth of Rh on Pd seeds followed an island growth mode owing to the relative high bond dissociation energy of Rh Rh and large surface free energies of Rh. This mechanistic study confirmed the slow addition of NaRhClsolution can efficiently avoid the self nucleation of the generated Rh atoms offering them the opportunity to deposition on Pd seeds. More importantly XPS studies indicated that the Br ions specifically capped on Pd 100 surface which could play as an obstacle preventing the deposition of Rh atoms on the 100 facets of the Pd seeds. At the end we selectively removed the Pd cores from the three types of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals with different elemental spatial distribution generating three corresponding Rh frames with different open structures. Our study provides a rational platform for the design of bimetallic nanocrystals with hetero nanostructures through seed mediated approaches.

In the experimental embodiments the following chemicals and materials were used. Ethylene glycol EG lot no. K43B24 was purchased from J. T. Baker. Sodium Pd II tetrachloride NaPdCl 99.998 sodium Rh III hexachloride NaRhCl poly vinyl pyrrolidone PVP MW 55 000 L ascorbic acid AA potassium bromide KBr formaldehyde HCHO 37 wt. in HO hydrochloric acid HCl 37 and iron III chloride 97 were all obtained from Sigma Aldrich and used as received. All aqueous solutions were prepared using deionized DI water with a resistivity of 18.2 M cm.

The following procedure was employed in the synthesis of 18 nm Pd nanocubes. The 18 nm Pd nanocubes used as the seeds were synthesized by adding a NaPdClsolution into an aqueous solution containing PVP AA and KBr. Typically 105 mg of PVP 60 mg of AA 600 mg of KBr and 8.0 mL of DI water were mixed in a vial and preheated at 80 C. in an oil bath under magnetic stirring for 10 min. Subsequently 57 mg of NaPdClwas dissolved in 3.0 mL of DI water and then injected into the preheated solution with a pipette. The mixture of reagents was capped and maintained at 80 C. for 3 h. The product was collected by centrifugations washed three times with water to remove excess PVP and inorganic ions and then re dispersed in 11 mL of solvent EG or DI water .

The following procedure was employed in the synthesis of Pd cuboctahedrons and octahedrons. The Pd cuboctahedrons and octahedrons were synthesized through a seed mediated approach as our previous report. In a standard procedure 8.0 mL of an aqueous solution containing 105 mg of PVP 100 L of HCHO and 0.3 mL of an aqueous suspension 1.8 mg mL in concentration of 18 nm Pd nanocubes was preheated at 60 C. for 5 min under magnetic stirring in a capped vial. Then 3.0 mL of aqueous NaPdClsolution was injected into the mixture through a pipette. The weight amounts of NaPdClfor obtaining cuboctahedrons and octahedrons were 8.7 mg and 29.0 mg respectively. The reaction was maintained at 60 C. for 3 h. The products were collected by centrifugation washed two times with water and then re dispersed in 1.0 mL of EG.

The following procedure was employed in the synthesis of spatially controlled Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals. The spatially controlled synthesis of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals was conducted by introducing NaRhClsolution in EG into the reaction system which contained the polyhedral Pd seeds. Typically 52.8 mg of L ascorbic acid 54 mg of KBr 1.0 mL of polyhedral Pd seeds e.g. cuboctahedrons octahedrons and nanocubes in EG and 6.0 mL of EG were mixed together in a 50 mL three neck flask. The mixture was preheated at 110 C. for 2 h under magnetic stirring and then ramped to 140 C. Meanwhile 15 mg of NaRhCland 133 mg of PVP were separately dissolved in 6 mL of EG. Then both of the EG solutions were pumped into the preheated mixture under 140 C. at the same rate of 4.0 mL h. The reaction took additional 10 min after the pumping. The product was collected by centrifugation washed two times with ethanol and then three times with water and then re dispersed in 5 mL of DI water.

The following procedure was employed in the synthesis of Rh frames. Chemical etching was conducted towards the three Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals in an acidic aqueous solution to prepare Rh frames. Typically 300 mg of KBr 50 mg of PVP 50 mg of FeCl 0.3 mL of HCl 37 5.7 mL of DI water and 2.0 mL of the aqueous dispersion of the as prepared Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals were mixed together in a 50 mL flask. Then the mixture was heated at 100 C. in an oil bath under magnetic stirring. After 48 h the products were collected by centrifugation washed two times with ethanol and three times with water and then re dispersed in DI water.

These methods represent a new approach to the syntheses of core frame nanocrystals and their further conversion into frame like nanostructures. Two types of metals can be presented on the surface of such a core frame nanocrystal in a spatially well defined pattern. The products can be important to a variety of catalytic applications especially for catalytic converters used in automobiles petroleum refinery and pharmaceutical industry.

The technology based on the site selected deposition of one metal on the surface a seed made of the same or a different metal. It involves a capping agent that can selectively adsorb onto a specific type of facets on the surface of a seed and thus block these facets from receiving additional atoms from the solution during the growth process. In addition the surface diffusion of adatoms should be suppressed to help confine the atoms to the originally deposited sites.

This involves selective deposition of Rh atoms onto the corners and edges of Pd nanocubes i.e. the seeds . In such a synthesis Br ions as well as other halide ions such as iodide were found to play an important role in selectively blocking the 100 side faces on a Pd nanocube. As such only the corner and edge sites on the surface of a Pd nanocube can receive new atoms from the reaction solution. When a salt precursor to Rh was slowly injected into the reaction solution through a syringe pump the deposition of Rh atoms could be tightly confined only to the corners and edges of the Pd nanocubes generating Pd Rh core frame nanocubes with concave side faces. The same approach can also be extended to other platinum group metals including Pt platinum Ir iridium and Pd palladium .

As one of the many applications the core frame structure may offer a new approach to increasing the shape stability and thus catalytic activities of noble metal nanocrystals at elevated temperatures. It was found that the Pd Rh core frame nanocubes could be maintained with a cubic shape up to a much higher temperature as compared with Pd nanocubes. Therefore the Pd Rh core frame nanocubes are anticipated to exhibit improved catalytic durability in a catalytic reaction at a high temperature.

This technology can also be extended to a variety of Pd seeds with other types of polyhedral shapes. When Pd cuboctahedrons were used as the seeds to conduct the growth the nucleation and deposition of Rh atoms was confined solely to the 111 facets of a Pd seed because the 100 facets were selectively capped by a layer of chemisorbed Br or I ions. When the synthesis was conducted at a relative low temperature the deposition of Rh atoms would follow an island growth mode due to the high Rh Rh interatomic binding energy. The surface diffusion of deposited Rh atoms can be facilitated by increasing the reaction temperature. Under this condition the deposition of Rh on the Pd111 facets was switched to a layered growth mode. A variety of other types of polyhedral Pd seeds that contained Pd111 and Pd100 facets in different proportions on the surface were also applied to the synthesis. A series of Pd Rh bimetallic nanocrystals with distinctive elemental distributions on the surface were obtained. The Pd cores can be removed via selective chemical etching to generate Rh frames with different types and degrees of porosity.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

