---

title: Dynamic content for online transactions
abstract: A method of providing dynamic content includes providing a client device with access to an online marketplace over a network. The method also includes facilitating transmission of a user identifier stored by the client device to a payment service provider. The method further includes receiving dynamic content from the payment service provider in response to the user identifier. In addition, the method includes serving the dynamic content to the client device over the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569793&OS=09569793&RS=09569793
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09569793
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 646 396 filed on Oct. 5 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC CONTENT FOR ONLINE TRANSACTIONS which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 238 959 filed on Sep. 21 2011 and entitled DYNAMIC CONTENT FOR ONLINE TRANSACTIONS which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 697 597 filed on Apr. 6 2007 and entitled DYNAMIC CONTENT FOR ONLINE TRANSACTIONS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 790 198 filed on Apr. 7 2006 and entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS TO GENERATE AND DISPLAY DYNAMIC MARKETING TEXT all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to online transactions and more particularly to the providing of content to facilitate online transactions.

Customers routinely search for and purchase products and services through electronic communications with online merchants over electronic networks such as the Internet. During the course of these transactions customers may provide payment in various ways including for example credit cards electronic fund transfers and other payment techniques offered by service providers.

Unfortunately it is often difficult or inconvenient for customers to determine whether sufficient funds are available to make a desired purchase while visiting a merchant s website. For example it is typically incumbent on customers to access their personal financial records or visit a separate financial website in order to ascertain the current account balance associated with a desired method of payment. These additional steps can detract from customer online experiences and inconvenience consumers when making online purchases.

For merchants such inconveniences can translate into potential lost sales to the extent that otherwise willing customers are deterred from completing online transactions. In particular if customers are forced to visit other websites or retrieve locally stored records before engaging in online transactions customers may become distracted or attracted to a merchant s competitors while taking such actions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a method of providing dynamic content includes providing a client device with access to an online marketplace over a network. The method also includes facilitating transmission of a user identifier stored by the client device to a payment service provider. The method further includes receiving dynamic content from the payment service provider in response to the user identifier. In addition the method includes serving the dynamic content to the client device over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method of providing dynamic content includes maintaining a user account comprising financial information associated with a user. The method also includes receiving a user identifier over a network. The method further includes associating the user identifier with the user account. In addition the method includes determining dynamic content to be provided to the user. The method also includes serving the dynamic content over the network in response to the user identifier.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a merchant system includes means for providing a client device with access to an online marketplace over a network. The merchant system also includes means for facilitating transmission of a user identifier stored by the client device to a payment service provider. The merchant system further includes means for receiving dynamic content from the payment service provider in response to the user identifier. In addition the merchant system includes means for serving the dynamic content to the client device over the network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a payment service provider system includes means for maintaining a user account comprising financial information associated with a user. The payment service provider system also includes means for receiving a user identifier over a network. The payment service provider system further includes means for associating the user identifier with the user account. In addition the payment service provider system includes means for determining dynamic content to be provided to the user. The payment service provider system also includes means for serving the dynamic content over the network in response to the user identifier.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein dynamic content can be provided to a user of an online payment service provider without requiring the user to log in or otherwise actively engage the payment service provider. For example in one embodiment dynamic content may be provided in response to a user s online shopping activities in relation to a merchant associated with the payment service provider. In other embodiments dynamic content may be provided in response to a user s interaction with a client side application such as a toolbar application or provided as a web feed such as an RSS feed.

In various embodiments this dynamic content may be provided in the form of text graphics or other formats and may be used to provide any desired marketing information financial information transaction information or other information which may be beneficial to a user merchant or payment service provider. For example in one embodiment such dynamic content may be provided to remind a user of an available account balance with a payment service provider. In another embodiment such dynamic content may identify a merchant rating or other information which may be helpful to the user in determining whether to engage in an online transaction.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present invention only and not for purposes of limiting the same illustrates a block diagram of a networked system configured to provide dynamic content in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown system includes a client device a merchant server and a payment service provider server in communication over a network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user e.g. a customer in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments client may be implemented as a wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or other types of computing devices.

As shown client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

Client device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

Client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to client device . For example in various embodiments such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

As also shown in client device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of client device or other appropriate identifiers. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an online merchant offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . In this regard merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of client . For example in one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser application over network in order to search and view various products or services identified in database .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . In this regard checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server over network .

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with client device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by user from merchant server . In one embodiment payment service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc.

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example in one embodiment account information may include private financial information of user such as account numbers passwords credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application without requiring user to provide account information to merchant server .

Payment service provider server also provides a content processing application which may select content from a content database to be provided to user . For example in various embodiments content processing application may be implemented with appropriate rules based or heuristics based facilities for selecting appropriate content for user based on for example user identifier user account account information information received from merchant server or other characteristics.

Optionally merchant server and or payment service provider server may be configured to provide a layered middle ware service to selectively filter out identifying information such as information which may identify user to third parties. In this regard appropriate filtering steps may be optionally performed prior to any of the various dynamic content serving steps discussed herein. As a result system may prevent user identifiable information from being passed as dynamic content between client device merchant server and payment service provider server .

As a result of such previous registration client device stores a user identifier that may be used to identify the particular user as having a user account maintained by payment service provider server . As previously described user identifier may be implemented for example as one or more cookies operating system registry entries hardware identifiers or other types of identifiers.

In step user accesses an online marketplace provided by merchant server . For example in one embodiment user may use browser application to access a webpage provided by marketplace application of merchant server . In this regard marketplace application may be configured to display various products or services identified in database . Also in step user may optionally select such products or services for purchase through interaction between browser application and checkout application .

For example illustrates a sample user interface that may be displayed to user on client device by browser application . In this regard user interface includes a browser window provided by browser application to display a dynamically created webpage. As shown browser window includes various product descriptions provided by marketplace application which correspond to various products selected by user for viewing from marketplace application . Browser window may initially be displayed without dynamic content . In this regard dynamic content may be subsequently displayed in browser window in response to later steps in the process of as further described herein.

Returning to in steps and merchant server may facilitate the transmission of user identifier to payment service provider server . For example in step merchant server detects user identifier maintained by client device . In one embodiment where user interacts with marketplace application or checkout application through browser application merchant server may be configured to read a user identifier such as a cookie from user device .

Following detection step merchant server may request user identifier from client device and pass the detected user identifier to payment service provider server step . Also in step merchant server may optionally pass additional information to payment service provider server . In various embodiments such information may include for example information concerning the particular products or services viewed or selected by user the browsing habits of user previous transactions by user with the merchant an identifier associated with merchant server or other information as may be appropriate in particular implementations.

In another embodiment step may be replaced by an alternate step in which merchant server provides instructions such as program code to payment service provider server to permit payment service provider server to read user identifier from user device . For example in such an embodiment merchant server may be configured to serve a web page to payment service provider server with embedded program code to facilitate the reading of user identifier by payment service provider server . Also in such an embodiment step may be replaced by an alternate step in which payment service provider server executes such program code to read user identifier from user device . Accordingly it will be appreciated that as a result of any of the various possible implementations of steps and merchant server may facilitate the transmission of user identifier to payment service provider server .

In step payment service provider server associates the user identifier with the particular user account of user . Following this association content processing application of payment service provider server determines dynamic content to be provided to user from content database step . For example in one embodiment content processing application may select various content from content database to be provided to user based on for example user identifier the user s account information information passed by merchant server in previous step or other information.

As previously described such dynamic content may be in the form of text graphics or other forms and may correspond to provide any desired marketing information financial information transaction information or other information which may be beneficial to a user merchant or payment service provider. For example in one embodiment such dynamic content may be configured to remind user of existence of an account balance in user account . In such an embodiment payment service provider server may be implemented to not provide the actual account balance in order to protect the possible confidential nature of such information. In another embodiment the dynamic content may be configured to provide user with the actual account balance in user account . In either of these cases dynamic content may be selected based on the current account balance identified by account information of user account .

In another embodiment dynamic content may be configured to advertise the availability of a payment service provider to complete a financial transaction with merchant server on behalf of user . In this case dynamic content may be selected based on the existence of a current user account with payment service provider. It will be appreciated that any other type of dynamic content may be selected as may be desired for particular implementations.

In step payment service provider server sends the selected dynamic content to merchant server . In response merchant server serves the selected dynamic content to client device step .

In step client device displays the served content to user . For example in one embodiment browser application may display a dynamically created webpage provided by merchant server that includes one or more embedded JavaScript tags specifying the dynamic content provided by payment service provider server .

Referring again to user interface of it will be appreciated that dynamic content may be displayed in browser window by browser application during step . In the embodiment of dynamic content is implemented as a message configured to remind user to use an existing user account to complete an online purchase with merchant server . However it will be appreciated that dynamic content may be implemented to display any information as may be desired in particular applications.

It will further be appreciated that following step user may optionally elect to purchase products or services from merchant server as desired. Advantageously the user s decision to engage in such purchases may be influenced by the particular dynamic content displayed to the user during step .

In step toolbar application begins running on client device . For example in one embodiment toolbar application may be associated with browser application and may begin running in response to user using browser application view a webpage provided by merchant server . In another embodiment toolbar application may begin running in response to a user initiated command.

In step user accesses an online marketplace provided by merchant server as previously described with regard to step of . For example illustrates a sample user interface that may be displayed to user on client device by browser application and toolbar application . In this regard user interface includes a browser window provided by browser application to display a dynamically created webpage. As shown browser window includes various product descriptions provided by marketplace application which correspond to various products selected by user for viewing from marketplace application .

User interface also includes a toolbar interface which may be provided by toolbar application . In this embodiment toolbar interface includes a user selectable button which may be configured to respond to commands provided by user through a suitable user input device of client device such as a mouse keyboard or other input device.

Toolbar interface also includes a content window which may be used to display dynamic content as further described herein. Content window may initially be empty during step and may subsequently display dynamic content in response to later steps in the process of as further described herein.

Returning to in optional step user interacts with toolbar interface by for example selecting button . Toolbar application may be configured to perform various tasks in response to interaction by user with toolbar interface . For example in one embodiment toolbar application may be implemented to display dynamic content in content window in response to a user s selection of button .

Toolbar application then passes user identifier to payment service provider server step . In one embodiment step may be performed in response to interaction by user with toolbar interface in optional step . In another embodiment toolbar application may be configured to detect access by user to a particular merchant in previous step . In this case step may be performed in response to such detection 

In step payment service provider server associates user identifier with the particular user account of user as previously described with regard to step of . Then in step payment service provider server determines content to be provided to user . For example in one embodiment content processing application may select various content from content database during step to be provided to user based on for example user identifier the user s account information the identity of merchant server information passed by merchant additional information passed by client device or other information. It will be appreciated that the particular dynamic content selected during step may correspond to any of the various examples previously described in relation to the process of or other content.

In step payment service provider server sends the selected content to toolbar application . Toolbar application then displays the served content to user in step .

Referring again to user interface of it will be appreciated that dynamic content may be displayed in content window by toolbar application during step . In the embodiment of dynamic content is implemented as a message configured to inform user of the actual balance of an associated user account . However it will be appreciated that dynamic content may be implemented to display any information as may be desired in particular applications.

It will further be appreciated that following step user may optionally elect to purchase products or services from merchant server as desired. Advantageously the user s decision to engage in such purchases may be influenced by the particular dynamic content displayed to the user during step .

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described for providing dynamic content to users of online payment service providers. Advantageously such dynamic content may be served to user client devices without requiring users to log in or otherwise actively engage the payment service provider. In this regard appropriate user identifiers may be passed by online merchants or client side applications to authenticate users with payment service providers without requiring users to actively perform a log in operation with respect to payment service provider servers.

It will be appreciated that such features can conveniently allow users to view relevant context sensitive information which may be useful to performing online transactions. For example by displaying a user account balance or merchant feedback information as dynamic content as described herein merchants and payment service providers can reduce the likelihood of users visiting other websites or local records to determine such information. As a result merchants and payment service providers can increase the likelihood of users to engage in online transactions.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure can be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein can be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components can be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data can be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein can be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein can be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present invention whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

Having thus described embodiments of the invention persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the invention is limited only by the claims.

