---

title: Providing application privacy information
abstract: A system includes a data processing device, a memory, identifications of applications, and a privacy indication module. Each identification of the application has associated therewith a privacy indicator that indicating a degree of expected privacy of each of the corresponding applications. The privacy indication module is configured to control the data processing device to set each of the privacy indicators of each of the identifications of the applications and to provide at least one of the privacy indicators to control publication of information corresponding to at least one of the applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384357&OS=09384357&RS=09384357
owner: Quixey, Inc.
number: 09384357
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141001
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data and more particularly to techniques for providing a privacy indicator associated with an application.

Friends family and colleagues are important sources for application discovery. Application installations and or uses of applications are being increasingly shared among social and professional circles. The sharing of this information often serves application discovery revealing which applications are popular in general or among different friends and social circles. Sharing application installation and usage information however generally raises privacy concerns. Even if a user does not generally mind sharing information regarding what applications the user has installed there may be specific applications that are installed and or used that the user may not wish others to know about e.g. applications related to dating pregnancy medical issues or the like .

Information regarding application usage is also increasingly being shared for the purposes of analytics and advertisement selection. Like sharing information with others the sharing of application usage information also raises privacy concerns. Users may not wish that others including third party data collection analytics engines and advertisers be aware of certain preferences or personal information e.g. medical conditions .

In various implementations a system includes a data processing device a memory identifications of applications and a privacy indication module. Each identification of the application may have associated therewith a privacy indicator that indicates a degree of expected privacy of the corresponding application. The privacy indication module may be configured to control the data processing device to set each of the privacy indicators of each of the identifications of the applications and to provide at least one of the privacy indicators to control publication of information corresponding to at least one of the applications.

Implementations of the disclosure may include one or more of the following features. In some implementations the privacy indication module includes a presentation module that shares or allows publication by the data processing device of download information by a user or user device associated with at least one of the applications based on at least one privacy indicator. The download information indicates a download of the corresponding application. In some examples the system includes a display in communication with the data processing device. The privacy indication module may include a presentation module that displays information on the display related to the application based on the privacy indicator. Additionally or alternatively the privacy indication module may include a presentation module that displays history information indicating a previous download of at least one of the applications.

Each of the privacy indicators may indicate whether the information related to the corresponding application is intended to be private. In some examples each of the privacy indicators may be a value corresponding to a degree that information related to the corresponding application is intended to be private.

In some implementations the data processing device executes a privacy indicator determination module configured to determine at least one of the privacy indicators based on input from a plurality of users. Moreover the data processing device may execute a privacy indicator determination module that determines at least one of the privacy indicators based on input from a user.

In various implementations the data processing device executes a sensitivity assessment module that receives a function category associated with at least one function of at least one application of the plurality of applications. The function category is further associated with a category privacy indicator. The sensitivity assessment module may determine at least one of the privacy indicators e.g. an indication of private based on the category privacy indicator.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a method that includes determining using a data processing device a plurality of privacy indicators. Each privacy indicator has associated therewith an application. Moreover each privacy indicator indicates a degree of expected privacy of each of the applications. The method also includes storing the plurality of privacy indicators in non transitory memory in communication with the data processing device and controlling publication by the data processing device of information corresponding to at least one of the applications based on at least one privacy indicator.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a computer program product encoded on a non transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions that when executed by a data processing device cause the data processing device to perform a method. The method includes determining a plurality of privacy indicators where each privacy indicator has associated therewith an application and indicates a degree of expected privacy of each of the applications. The method also includes storing the plurality of privacy indicators in non transitory memory in communication with the data processing device and controlling publication by the data processing device of information corresponding to at least one of the applications based on at least one privacy indicator.

One aspect of the disclosure provides a system including non transitory memory and a data processing device in communication with the non transitory memory. The non transitory memory stores identifications of applications each application having associated therewith a privacy indicator indicating a degree of expected privacy of the corresponding application. The data processing device executes instructions that cause the data processing device to implement a privacy indication module that sets the degree of expected privacy of each privacy indicator stored in the non transitory memory. The data processing device also controls publication of information corresponding to at least one of the applications based on at least one privacy indicator associated with the at least one application.

The details of one or more implementations of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other aspects features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Certain software applications may be considered sensitive even by those users who typically share information regarding application selection and installation with their social and professional circles. Privacy concerns regarding sharing practices and preferences related to such applications can make people reluctant to share information about any applications if the sharing mechanisms do not effectively allow withholding sharing information about the privacy sensitive applications. A privacy sensitive application is any software application that a user may consider to be private e.g. a personal application or an application that potentially contains personal information and as a result the user may be reluctant or refuse to share information about or associated with the application. In order to design mechanisms that can provide capabilities to withhold sharing of information related to privacy sensitive applications the mechanism may be designed to identify whether an application is likely to be privacy sensitive and in some instances to what extent.

Privacy indicators associated with one or more different applications may be utilized to protect the privacy of a user in any number of ways. For example entities that provide services to collect installation usage or application search data may utilize privacy indicators to limit collection of data to respect privacy concerns. In another example an advertising network may review any privacy indicators associated with applications before collecting and or utilizing application information e.g. data of application usage or data from the application for targeted advertising.

In another example some entities e.g. social networks may wish to automatically share application installation and or application usage information by a user with that user s friends and family. Before sharing information the entity may identify any privacy indicators associated with the user s applications and limit or stop information sharing in order to respect the user s privacy.

The privacy indicators may also be utilized to protect the privacy of different users on a single device. Many operating systems support multiple user accounts and provide access to different information and or applications depending on the user. An operating system may support multiple user accounts and provide access to different information and or applications depending on the user that is currently logged in based on the privacy indicator. For example the operating system may determine to display an application on a home screen and or information about application usage based on the current user logged into the digital device and the privacy indicator of that application. In some embodiments the operating system may determine permissions for any number of users of the digital device to view access or make changes to a particular application based on that particular application s privacy indicator.

Operating systems or applications may also check a privacy indicator before showing or sending application notifications. Many applications provide notifications alarms or the like to users of device e.g. users of smartphones . An operating system and or an application may check a privacy indicator to determine whether an application should be enabled to notify alert or otherwise provide messages. For example an operating system may check for a privacy indicator associated with an application that contains health information before allowing the application to provide a notification of an upcoming health treatment.

It will be appreciated that privacy indicators may be determined and provided to any number of entities or users for any number of uses. In some embodiments privacy indicator determinations can be made by aggregating sharing decisions across a population of users and or examining individual sharing decisions by a user. To be clear the decisions to share or not share installation of an application e.g. a decision to share or not share the name of an application that has been installed can be aggregated across a user population to determine the extent to which an application might be sensitive. For instance if 80 of the users share application A while only 20 share application B then application B is likely to be considered more private than application A.

In another example of determining whether an application is privacy sensitive by examining user behavior if a user chooses to share only some of the information regarding applications the user installs then the applications that are not shared can be marked as potentially sensitive. An example of choosing to share only some of the information regarding the application includes choosing to share an identifier of the application with others and or choosing to share personal information from within the application. The determination of privacy sensitivity based on aggregated sharing decisions can be further refined by examining differences based on user characteristics such as demographics e.g. race age gender or the like . For example certain applications may be considered privacy sensitive mainly by females but not by males. In another example other applications may be considered privacy sensitive by teenagers but not by adults e.g. dating applications .

In some implementations the privacy indicator i.e. either the global privacy indicator or user privacy indicator may be utilized to influence actions. For example if a user downloads an application that is associated with a privacy indicator indicating a private or sensitive application the application may be downloaded to a special e.g. nonvisible and or secured folder. Based on the privacy indicator a downloading server may choose to not index and or track usage of the application. Moreover a social network and other third parties may be excluded from receiving information about usage of particular applications in response to the corresponding privacy indicator . Any amount of information regarding the installation of the application may be shared or not shared based on the privacy indicator .

The privacy indicator may simply indicate whether information associated with an application is intended to be private or public e.g. the privacy indicator may be a simple flag indicating a request for privacy . In some examples the privacy indicator is a value within a range that may allow for a variety of options for control of public and or private actions. For example a user may have different levels of privacy expectations. One privacy indicator value at or above a given threshold may indicate that the user or users desires information associated with the corresponding application to remain private. Another privacy indicator value in a given range may indicate that the user or users approves of sharing information regarding installation or use of an application with a limited number of others e.g. a limited circle of friends or family but not to the public. A user may also want to share indexing and or usage information of the application as long as the information is aggregated and not specifically identified. A highly private user may create a rule that indicates that if the privacy indicator is a value above zero 0 then information associated with the corresponding application is not intended to be shared.

In another example a user may assign a privacy indicator to indicate that the user wishes to share only some information about an application. For instance the user may assign a numerical value as a privacy indicator. In some embodiments the numerical value may be compared to various thresholds. For example a high numerical value above the highest threshold may for example indicate the user s approval to share all information associate with an application. A numerical value between two thresholds may indicate the user s approval to share application information only with family or only with users of a digital device e.g. a smartphone . Another numerical value between two other thresholds may indicate the user s approval to share limited application information such as installation information but not usage information. A low numerical value below the lowest threshold may for example indicate the user s disapproval to share any information associated with the application. A user may specify a degree of expected privacy based on any privacy indicator.

Identifying applications that are potentially privacy sensitive can help enhance mechanisms for sharing application installations among social and professional circles in a way that reduces minimizes or ideally eliminates privacy concerns and violations. In addition a user may feel more comfortable sharing indexing and usage data of an application back to the search system. Reduction or removal of privacy concerns can facilitate greater amounts of sharing in general which in turn enhances the utility and effectiveness of application recommendations derived from application usage among social and professional circles of an individual.

An application may refer to a package of computer software developed to be executed on a computing device platform that causes a computing device to provide one or more functions. In some examples a software application may be referred to as an application an app or a program. Example applications include but are not limited to word processing applications spreadsheet applications messaging applications media streaming applications social networking applications and gaming applications.

Applications can be executed on a variety of different computing devices . For example applications can be executed on mobile computing devices such as smart phones tablets and wearable computing devices e.g. headsets and or watches . Applications can also be executed on other types of computing devices having other form factors such as laptop computers desktop computers or other consumer electronic devices. In some examples applications may be installed on a computing device prior to a user purchasing the computing device. In other examples the user may download and install applications on the computing device .

The functionality of an application may be accessed on the computing device on which the application is installed. Additionally or alternatively the functionality of an application may be accessed via a remote computing device . In some examples an application s functionality is provided on the computing device on which the application is installed. These applications may function without communication with other computing devices e.g. via the Internet . In other examples an application installed on a computing device may access information from other remote computing devices during operation. For example a weather application installed on a computing device may access the latest weather information via the Internet and display the accessed weather information to the user through the installed weather application. In still other examples an application e.g. a web based application may be partially executed by the user s computing device and partially executed by a remote computing device . For example a web application may be an application that is executed at least in part by a web server and accessed by a web browser of the user s computing device . Example web applications may include but are not limited to web based email online auctions and online retail sites.

The privacy system may comprise a privacy indication module a sensitivity determination module and a privacy record data store . The privacy system may determine store and provide privacy indicators for any number of applications . The privacy indication module may retrieve and provide any number of privacy indicators . Privacy indicators may be stored in the privacy record data store . Each privacy indicator may be associated with a different application . The privacy indication module for example may associate privacy indicators with search results see .

The sensitivity determination module may receive and or generate sensitivity values . A sensitivity value may be any numeric value indicating a degree e.g. an intensity of sensitivity related to sharing or publishing information about and or associated with an application to one or more parties. In various embodiments one or more users may be requested to provide privacy indicators for any number of applications e.g. indicating a degree of privacy associated with information regarding the application . In one example a privacy indicator may be represented as a general flag or level of privacy intent and a sensitivity value may be a number indicating a degree of sensitivity. The privacy system may utilize only privacy indicators or both privacy indicators and sensitivity values .

The sensitivity determination module may generate an aggregate sensitivity value for an application by aggregating privacy indicators and or sensitivity values for an application from a population of users. The sensitivity determination module may compare the aggregate sensitivity value to a global threshold to determine a privacy indicator associated with the application . In various implementations the sensitivity determination module may utilize similarity between applications as guidance in determining privacy indicators and or sensitivity values . In addition leveraging similarity of data of applications may be used to infer privacy indicators for new applications. Similarity may be defined and quantified by how similar one application may be to another application even across different platforms. Systems and methods for determining similarity between applications are described in detail in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 839 068 filed on Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 037 155 filed on Sep. 25 2013 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The privacy system may provide privacy indicators to the user devices the search system and or the data sources via the network . The privacy system is further discussed with regard to . As utilized herein a system may comprise a single digital device e.g. a server or any number of digital devices.

One or more user devices may display the search results to the user and allow the user to select one of the applications identified in the list in order to view information related to the application and or download the application . The application identifiers e.g. the executable programs identified listed in the search results see sent to the user may be accessible from e.g. downloaded from systems different than the search system in some examples. Put another way the search system may store data related to applications that are accessible in locations other than the search system . For example the identified applications may be installed on user device . In another example the identified applications may be downloadable from digital distribution platforms configured to distribute the applications . Example digital distribution platforms include but are not limited to GOOGLE PLAY developed by GOOGLE INC. the APP STORE developed by APPLE INC. and WINDOWS PHONE STORE developed by MICROSOFT CORPORATION. Although the application identifiers listed in the search results may be accessed in locations other than the search system the search system may include application identifiers for download in some implementations.

The search system includes an application record data store and an application search module . The application record data store includes a variety of different types of data related to different applications . The application record data store may include one or more databases indices e.g. inverted indices files or other data structures that may be used to implement the techniques of the present disclosure. As described herein the data included in the application record data store may include descriptions of applications statistics related to applications e.g. download numbers review numbers etc. and other information. The application search module may receive a search query see and generate search results see based on the data included in the application record data store .

The search system may communicate with the user devices and data sources via the network . Examples of the user devices the data sources and the network are now described in turn.

User devices can be any computing devices e.g. digital devices that are capable of providing search queries to the search system . A digital device is any device with a processor and memory. A digital device is further discussed regarding herein. User devices include but are not limited to smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices e.g. head mounted displays and wrist watches laptop computers and desktop computers . User devices may also include other computing devices having other form factors such as computing devices included in vehicles gaming devices televisions or other appliances e.g. networked home automation devices and home appliances .

The user devices may use a variety of different operating systems. In examples where a user device is a mobile device the user device may run an operating system including but not limited to ANDROID by GOOGLE INC. TIZEN by TIZEN FOUNDATION IOS developed by APPLE INC. or WINDOWS PHONE developed by MICROSOFT CORPORATION. In an example where a user device is a laptop or desktop computing device the user device may run an operating system including but not limited to MICROSOFT WINDOWS MAC OS or LINUX. User devices may also access the search system while running operating systems other than those operating systems described above whether presently available or developed in the future.

User devices can communicate with the search system via the network . In some examples a user device may communicate with the search system using an application installed on the user device . In general a user device may communicate with the search system using any application that can transmit search queries see to the search system . In some examples a user device may run an application that is dedicated to interfacing with the search system such as an application dedicated to application searches. In some examples a user device may communicate with the search system using a more general application such as a web browser application. The application run by a user device to communicate with the search system may display a search field on a graphical user interface GUI in which the user may enter search queries . The user may enter a search query using a touchscreen or physical keyboard a speech to text program or other form of user input.

A search query entered into a GUI displayed on a screen of a user device may include words numbers and or symbols. In general a search query may be a request for information retrieval e.g. search results from the search system . For example a search query may be directed to retrieving a list of application identifiers in examples where the search system is configured to generate a list of application identifiers as search results . A search query directed to retrieving a list of application identifiers may indicate a user s desire to retrieve applications that have a functionality described by the search query .

A user device may receive a set of search results from the search system that are responsive to the search query transmitted to the search system . The user device may be running an application including a GUI that displays the search results received from the search system . For example a search system interface may be utilized on the GUI to transmit the search query to the search system may also display the received search results to the user. As described above the application that displays the received search results to the user may be dedicated to interfacing with the search system in some examples. In other examples the search system interface may be displayed in a general application such as a web browser application.

The GUI running on the user device may display the search results to the user in a variety of different ways depending on what information is transmitted to the user device . In examples where the search results include a list of ranked application identifiers the search system may transmit the list of application identifiers to the user device . In this example the GUI may display the search results to the user as a list of application names. In some examples the search system or other computing system may transmit additional information to the user device including but not limited to application ratings application download numbers application screenshots and application descriptions. This additional information may be stored in the application record data store and transmitted by the search system to the user device in some examples. In examples where the user device receives this additional information the GUI may display this information along with the list of application names. In some examples the GUI may display the search results as a list of application names ordered from the top of the screen to the bottom of the screen based on relevance determined by a result score or sorted based on any criterion. In some examples the search results may be displayed under the search field in which the user entered the search query .

In some examples user devices may communicate with the search system via a partner computing system not illustrated . The partner computing system may be a computing system of a third party that may leverage the search functionality of the search system . The partner computing system may belong to a company or organization other than that which operates the search system . Example third parties which may leverage the functionality of the search system may include but are not limited to Internet search providers and wireless communications service providers. The user devices may send search queries to the search system and receive search results via the partner computing system. The partner computing system may provide a user interface to the user devices in some examples and or modify the search experience provided on the user devices .

The data sources may be sources of data that the search system may use to generate and update the application record data store . For example the search system may use the data to update one or more databases indices files or other data structures included in the application record data store . The search system may generate new application records e.g. application record of and update existing application records based on data retrieved from the data sources . Although not illustrated in the search system may include modules that generate new application records and update existing application records based on the data retrieved from data sources e.g. digital distribution platforms blogs application reviews and or social networks . In some examples some data included in the application record data store may be manually generated.

The data sources may include a variety of different data providers. The data sources may include data from application developers such as application developers websites. The data sources may include operators of digital distribution platforms configured to distribute applications to user devices . The data sources may also include other websites such as websites that include web logs i.e. blogs application review websites or other websites including data related to applications. Additionally the data sources may include social networking sites such as FACEBOOK e.g. FACEBOOK posts and TWITTER e.g. text from tweets . Data sources may also include additional types of data sources in addition to the data sources described above. Different data sources may have their own content and update rate.

The search system retrieves data from one or more of the data sources . The data retrieved from the data sources can include any type of data related to applications . Examples of data related to applications include but are not limited to a name of an application a description of an application a substantive review of an application a quality rating of an application a developer name an excerpt from a blog post about an application a tweet about an application a video about an application e.g. screencasts or tutorials and one or more images e.g. icons and or screenshots associated with the application. The search system may also retrieve statistical data from the data sources . Statistical data may include any numerical data related to an application such as a number of downloads download rates e.g. downloads per month a number of reviews and a number of ratings. In some examples data retrieved from the data sources may include information regarding the functionalities of applications .

As described above the privacy system the user devices the search system and the data sources may be in communication with one another via the network . The network may include various types of networks such as a wide area network WAN and or the Internet. Although the network may represent a long range network e.g. Internet or WAN in some implementations the network may include a shorter range network such as a local area network LAN . In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet Wireless Fidelity WiFi e.g. 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML etc. In addition all or some of the links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private networks VPNs Internet Protocol security IPsec etc. In other examples the network can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

As described above the application record data store includes data related to a plurality of different applications . The data associated with an application may be referred to herein as an application record e.g. application record of . Accordingly the application record data store may include a plurality of different application records that each include data related to a different application.

The application name may be the name of the application represented by the data in the application record . Example application names may include GOOGLE MAPS FACEBOOK TWITTER MICROSOFT WORD or ANGRY BIRDS. The application identifier hereinafter application ID identifies the application record amongst the other application records included in the application record data store . For example the application identifier may uniquely identify the application record . The application ID may be a string of alphabetic numeric and or symbolic characters e.g. punctuation marks that uniquely identify the application record in which the application ID is included.

The application attributes may include any type of data that may be associated with the application represented by the application record . The application attributes may include a variety of different types of data. For example the application attributes may include structured semi structured and or unstructured data. The application attributes may include information that is extracted or inferred from documents retrieved from the data sources . In some examples the application attributes may include data that is manually generated. The application attributes may be updated so that up to date results can be provided in response to a user search query .

The application attributes may include the name of the developer of the application the publisher of the application a category e.g. genre of the application a description of the application e.g. a developer s description a version of the application the operating system for the application and the price of the application . The application attributes may also indicate security or privacy data about the application battery usage of the application and bandwidth usage of the application .

The application attributes may include application statistics. Application statistics may refer to numerical data related to the application. For example application statistics may include but are not limited to a number of downloads a download rate e.g. downloads per month a number of ratings and a number of reviews. The application attributes may also include information retrieved from websites such as reviews associated with the application articles associated with the application e.g. wiki articles or other information. The application attributes may also include digital media related to the application such as images e.g. icons and or screenshots and or video.

The application attributes also includes fields for application statistics such as ratings and the number of downloads. The ratings field may indicate the ratings given to the application by the users. For example the ratings may include a number of stars e.g. 0 5 stars assigned to the application by users. The number of downloads may indicate the total number of times the application has been downloaded.

Referring back to the search query received by the application search module may be used to perform an application search of the application record data store . For example the query analysis module receives the query . The query analysis module may perform various analysis operations on the received query . For example analysis operations performed by the query analysis module may include but are not limited to tokenization of the query filtering of the query stemming synonymization and stop word removal.

The search query may be a query entered by a user on a user device . The search query may include text numbers and or symbols e.g. punctuation entered into the user device by the user. For example the user may have entered the search query into a search field e.g. a search box of a search system interface running on the user device using a touchscreen keypad a mechanical keypad and or via speech recognition. In some examples a user device may transmit additional data along with the search query . The search query and the additional data may be referred to as a query wrapper. The query wrapper may include information associated with the search query such as platform information e.g. device type operating system version and web browser version user agent geo location information partner specific information and other information. The search system may receive the query wrapper in some examples. The search system may use the additional information included in the query wrapper to generate search results.

The set generation module identifies a set of applications i.e. the consideration set based on the search query . In some examples the set generation module may identify the set of applications by identifying application records based on matches between terms of the search query and terms in the application records . For example the set generation module may identify a set of applications in the application record data store based on matches between tokens generated by the query analysis module and words included in the application records . The consideration set of applications may be a list of application records in some examples. For example the consideration set may be a list of application identifiers and or a list of application names .

The set processing module performs a variety of different processing operations on the consideration set to generate a set of search results that includes a list of applications . In some implementations the set processing module may generate a result score for each of the applications included in the consideration set in order to generate the set of search results . In these implementations the set of search results may include a list of applications e.g. application identifiers and or application names each of which is associated with a corresponding result score . In some examples the search results may include all of the applications identified in the consideration set. In other examples the search results may include a subset of the consideration set. For example the subset may be the application identifiers for those applications having the largest result scores.

Information conveyed by the search results may depend on how the result scores are calculated by the set processing module . For example the result scores may indicate the relevance of an application to the search query the popularity of an application the quality of an application or other properties of the application depending on what parameters the set processing module uses to score the applications .

The set processing module may generate result scores for applications in a variety of different ways. In general the set processing module may generate a result score for an application based on one or more scoring features. The scoring features may be associated with the application and or the search query . An application scoring feature may include any data associated with an application . For example application scoring features may include any of the application attributes included in the application record or any additional parameters related to the application such as data indicating the popularity of an application e.g. number of downloads and the ratings e.g. number of stars associated with an application . A query scoring feature may include any data associated with the search query . For example query scoring features may include but are not limited to a number of words in the search query the popularity of the search query and the expected frequency of the words in the search query . An application query scoring feature may include any data which may be generated based on data associated with both the application and the search query that resulted in identification of the application record by the set generation module . For example application query scoring features may include but are not limited to parameters that indicate how well the terms of the search query match the terms of the identified application record. The set processing module may generate a result score for an application based on at least one of the application scoring features the query scoring features and the application query scoring features.

The set processing module may determine a result score based on one or more of the scoring features listed herein and or additional scoring features not explicitly listed. In some examples the set processing module may include one or more machine learned models e.g. a supervised learning model configured to receive one or more scoring features. The one or more machine learned models may generate result scores based on at least one of the application scoring features the query scoring features and the application query scoring features. For example the set processing module may pair the search query with each application and calculate a vector of features for each query application pair. The vector of features may include application scoring features query scoring features and application query scoring features. The set processing module may then input the vector of features into a machine learned regression model to calculate a result score that may be used to rank the application in the search results for the search query .

The results scores may be used in a variety of different ways. In some examples the result scores may be used to rank the applications in a list of results that is presented on a user device . In these examples a larger result score may indicate that the application is more relevant to a user than an application having a smaller result score . In examples where the search results are displayed as a list on a user device the application names associated with larger result scores may be listed nearer to the top of the results list e.g. near to the top of the screen . In these examples application names associated with lower result scores may be located farther down the list e.g. off screen and may be accessed by a user scrolling down the screen of the user device .

The set of search results may be transmitted to a user device that generated the search query upon which the search results are based. The search results may be formatted on a user device as a list of application names matching the search query . The search results may include any information corresponding to the various applications . For example the search results provided by the search system to a user device may be formatted as a list of application identifiers including for example a name of the application an image associated with the application e.g. an icon a screenshot and or a video a link to download the application a description and rating of the application and or other information.

In step the set generation module identifies a consideration set of applications e.g. a set of application records based on the search query e.g. based on output from the query analysis module . In step the set processing module processes the consideration set of applications . For example the set processing module may generate a result score for each of the application names in the consideration set. In step the set processing module generates a set of search results . The search results may include a list of application identifiers and associated result scores . The search system may then transmit the search results to a user device .

A global privacy indicator may indicate an intent regarding privacy of information associated with an application . The global privacy indicator may be based on a population of users or determined by an application developer or administrator. The global privacy indicator may represent a general privacy expectation of a population. A user privacy indicator is a privacy indicator that is set for and or by an individual user for an associated application .

The privacy indication module may include a global privacy indicator identification module a user profile module an API module a global privacy indicator rules module and a search privacy determination module . The global privacy indicator identification module may be configured to provide one or more global privacy indicators.

In various embodiments a user may view the search results and related privacy indicators on the digital device . The privacy indicator associated with an application may provide the user assurance that information may not be shared with others e.g. friends advertisers or the like regarding the user s installation and or use an application that is identified as private. As a result the user may be encouraged to install and or use the application. The user may also have the option to change the privacy indicator of an application that is downloaded e.g. from a default privacy indicator provided by the global privacy indicator identification module to a user privacy indicator to make data regarding installation or use of the application more or less private.

In some implementations before an installed application on the digital device shares or otherwise provides at least some potentially private information application developers may enable the application to identify a privacy indicator e.g. if present on the digital device or to provide the privacy indicator request to the privacy system to retrieve a global privacy indicator e.g. if a privacy indicator is not present on the digital device . The application may determine to share or otherwise provide information e.g. to the application developer social networks recommendation software or advertising networks based on the privacy indicator.

In various embodiments a service or another application may scan applications and or application usage for any number of applications on a digital device in order to provide the information to one or more third parties e.g. for advertising demographic information application development sharing with friends or the like . The service or other application may request and or retrieve any number of privacy indicators for any number of the applications on the digital device prior to collection of information and or prior to providing information that is collected. The service or other application may determine whether to collect information and or provide information associated with each particular application based on that particular application s privacy indicator.

An operating system of the digital device may display and or enable functionality based on one or more privacy indicator. For example the operating system of the digital device may retrieve a privacy indicator for an application provide the privacy indicator request to retrieve a privacy indicator or be provide a privacy indicator by an application on the digital device . The operating system may limit notifications alerts and or other messages for a particular application based on that application s privacy indicator.

In some embodiments the operating system may support multiple user accounts and provide access to different information and or applications depending on the user that is currently logged in based on the privacy indicator. For example the operating system may determine to display an application on a home screen and or information about application usage based on the current user logged into the digital device and the privacy indicator of that application. In some embodiments the operating system may determine permissions for any number of users of the digital device to view access or make changes to a particular application based on that particular application s privacy indicator.

The optional user profile module may provide one or more user privacy indicators based at least in part on a user identifier. is a flow diagram illustrating an example method for providing one or more user privacy indicators based on a user identifier in some embodiments. The user profile module may receive a user identifier and a privacy indicator request for a user privacy indicator associated with an application and the user identifier . The user profile module may retrieve a user profile e.g. from the user profile data store based on the user identifier . The user profile module may identify a user privacy indicator associated with the user profile based on the application identifier and provide the user privacy indicator to the requester or any digital device . A user identifier may be any identifier that is associated with a user. For example the user identifier may be a unique number a unique code a username an account number or the like. In another example the identifier may comprise a combination of letters and numbers.

User privacy indicators may themselves be private. In some implementations all or some of the user privacy indicators may be maintained on a user device e.g. user device and may not be stored or shared with the privacy system .

The privacy indication module may provide security for user privacy indicators . is a flow diagram illustrating an example method for providing security for user privacy indicators in some embodiments. The user profile module may authenticate a communication including or requesting user privacy indicators e.g. utilizing a username and a password authenticated with information associated with the user from the user profile data store . In various implementations the user profile module encrypts and or decrypts the user privacy indicators . For example the user profile module may communicate with a user device via an encrypted communication channel e.g. https or the like . The user profile module may authenticate and or decrypt the privacy indicator request from the user device e.g. utilizing an encryption key . The user profile may in some embodiments authenticate and or decrypt the user identifier within the privacy indicator request . The user profile module may retrieve and or decrypt one or more user privacy indicators from the user profile data store . The user profile module may in some embodiments retrieve an encryption key associated with the user e.g. from the user s profile encrypt a response including the retrieved user privacy indicators and provide the response to the user device .

In various implementations the user profile module may receive one or more user privacy indicators for storage in non transitory memory. In some examples the user profile module may receive a user indicator storage request e.g. the user indicator storage request of from a user device . The user indicator storage request may request that the privacy indication module store a user privacy indicator associated with the user in the user s profile. The user profile module may authenticate and or decrypt the privacy indicator storage request and or the user privacy indicator s within the request . The user profile module may select a user profile e.g. from within the user profile data store based on a user identifier associated the privacy indicator storage request and store the user privacy indicator s within the user profile .

The application programming interface API module is configured to receive API messages e.g. API calls from any digital device e.g. data sources and or user devices . The API module may receive for example API calls from databases applications social networks other privacy systems search systems user devices or the like. The API calls may request any number of global privacy indicator s and or user profile indicator s . For example a social network may receive information that a user has downloaded and or installed an application . Prior to sharing the information about the user the social network may provide the privacy system with a global privacy indicator request e.g. via the global privacy indicator identification module or an API call e.g. via the API module requesting a global privacy indicator associated with the downloaded and or installed application . The API module and or the global privacy indicator identification module may provide the requested global privacy indicator. Based on the global privacy indicator the social network may determine to share the information that the application was downloaded e.g. download information installed installation information or used e.g. use information by the user. Alternately based on the global privacy indicator e.g. the global privacy indicator indicating that the associated application is generally considered private and or that information related to the application is generally requested to be private the social network may determine not to share the information.

Any number of digital devices may request global privacy indicator s and or user profile indicator s . In various implementations the API module may be configured to receive API calls to store e.g. in non transitory memory global privacy indicator s and or user profile indicator s .

The API module may be optional. In some examples the global privacy indicator identification module may be responsive to API communications for global privacy indicator s and the user profile module may be responsive to API communications for user privacy indicators s .

The global privacy indicator rules module may retrieve applicable rule s and or utilize the applicable rule s that may affect global privacy indicator s and or user profile indicator s . One or more rules may override a privacy indicator regardless of the previously stored and or determined privacy indicators .

For example certain countries may require that information regarding one or more applications be considered private e.g. medical records . In various implementations the global privacy indicator rules module may determine that a rule is applicable based on information from a requesting device and may apply the applicable rule. For example in various embodiments a digital device requesting one or more privacy indicators may provide a country code IP address or the like that is associated with a country. Based on the information the global privacy indicator rules module may retrieve and or apply any applicable rules based on that country. In another example a digital device may request one or more privacy indicators and provide a geographic code e.g. indicating states localities or the like which may have different rules or laws . The global privacy indicator rules module may retrieve and or apply any applicable rules based on provided information e.g. codes .

In some implementations each search system user device data sources and or other digital devices that may request privacy indicators is associated with an account or profile. The account or profile may include information related to one or more rules e.g. country that the digital device operates in or rules applicable to various people or roles in a company . The global privacy indicator rules module may receive a request for one or more privacy indicators with an identifier e.g. a digital device identifier user identifier and or IP address . Based on the identifier the global privacy indicator rules module may retrieve one or more rules .

In various implementations the global privacy indicator rules module determines if one or more rules apply. For example Germany may require that information associated with medical applications be private. The global privacy indicator identification module may retrieve any number of global privacy indicators based on application identifiers of a privacy indicator request . The global privacy indicator rules module may retrieve any potentially applicable rules based on identifiers or other information in or associated with the privacy indicator request . For example after identifying a rule that requires all information associated with medical applications are to be private the global privacy indicator rules module may scan the application identifiers to determine if any application associated with the application identifiers are medical applications. If there are no medical applications the global privacy indicator rules module may not apply any rules . If one or more of the application identifiers is a medical application the global privacy indicator rules module may change or require that the related global privacy indicator s associated with the medical applications indicate private e.g. regardless of the previously determined value that may be stored in the privacy record data store .

The global privacy indicator rules module may receive maintain retrieve and or utilize any rule . Any rule may override and or otherwise require a specific privacy indicator regardless of the global privacy indicator and or user profile indicator. In some examples legal regulations may require information regarding a group or genre e.g. a category of application to be considered private. One or more networks e.g. social networks application developers politicians companies schools parents or the like may wish to consider information regarding a set of applications private. In additional examples a social network may wish to keep information regarding a set of applications be private but only on their network. To illustrate the global privacy indicator rules module may apply a rule indicating that a category of applications are to always indicate a desire for privacy on a specific social network e.g. only on FACEBOOK while other social networks may not rely on the rule but utilize on a global privacy indicator.

In various implementations any digital device or an administrator may establish rules for the global privacy indicator rules module . In some examples an application developer parent or the like may log onto the privacy indication module and may provide any number of rules for different applications and or circumstances. For example a parent or guardian may generate a rule that information regarding the downloading and or installation of an application of a specific child should be private.

The search privacy determination module may be configured to identify a search query as a private search and provide a search privacy indicator. For example a search system may conduct a search based on a query from a user device . The search system may provide a set of application identifiers from the search results to the privacy system . The global privacy indicator identification module may retrieve any number of global privacy indicators associated with any or all of the set of application identifiers . If all of the global privacy indicators are indicative of expected privacy the search privacy determination module may determine that the search is also private based on the retrieved global privacy indicators and generate a search privacy indicator that may be provided to a digital device e.g. the search system and or the user device . A determination of a search as being private may be based on global privacy indicators associated with a sampling of application identifiers from the search results a majority or in any other manner.

A user may be encouraged to search for different applications if the search query is private. As a result some users may be encouraged to search for discover install and or use applications. In some embodiments if the search query is private information regarding the search query may not be collected stored and or used. For example the digital device may not store the search in a search history. In another example the privacy indication module of the privacy system may not store information regarding a private search in the user s profile. Further in some embodiments information regarding the private search may not be collected or used for targeted advertising and or recommending featured applications.

The search privacy determination module may determine whether a search query is private based on any information including the identity of the requester e.g. the identity of the user key words used in the search e.g. indicating that the search is to be private or based on all or some of the global privacy indicator s related to application identifiers from the search results .

In some implementations the search privacy determination module weights and or calculates a search sensitivity value based on the global privacy indicator s associated with the search results . The search sensitivity value may be any value e.g. number based on an aggregation of privacy indictors of any number of the global privacy indicator s associated with the search results. The search privacy determination module may determine that the search query is private or not private based on the sensitivity value e.g. by comparing the sensitivity value to a predetermined search threshold of the global sensitivity threshold module .

The sensitivity determination module may determine a sensitivity value associated with an application . A sensitivity value may be any numeric value indicating a degree e.g. an intensity of sensitivity related to sharing or publishing information associated with an application or search. In one example a high sensitivity value may indicate that a user or population of users request and or strongly prefer that information associated with their search selection installation and usage of an application not be shared or published.

The sensitivity value may quantify sensitivity in any manner. In some implementations low sensitivity values may indicate a high degree of sensitivity while high sensitivity values may indicate a low degree of sensitivity. In various implementations sensitivity values may be integers representing a level of sensitivity. In one example sensitivity values may range between 1 10 integers one being the lowest sensitivity and 10 being the highest.

The sensitivity determination module may include a sensitivity aggregation module and a sensitivity assessment module . The sensitivity aggregation module may be configured to generate a privacy score and or aggregate sensitivity values for an application based on user privacy indicators and or sensitivity values. In some embodiments the sensitivity aggregation module determines a privacy indicator for an application based on global privacy indicators and or sensitivity values.

The sensitivity aggregation module may receive privacy indicators e.g. user privacy indicators and sensitivity values associated with any number of users. In some implementations any number of users may be asked to provide privacy indicators e.g. user privacy indicators and or sensitivity values associated with an application . For example when users search for applications and or view application information an interface e.g. on a digital device on a website and or in an application store may request that the user input a privacy indicator and or a sensitivity value. The privacy indicator may for example indicate whether the user would consider sharing and or publishing at least some information associated with search selection installation and or usage of the associated application to be private. The sensitivity value may for example indicate a degree or intensity that a user would consider sharing and or publishing at least some information associated with search selection installation and or usage of the associated application to be private. In some implementations if the user inputs a privacy indicator associated with one or more applications the inputted privacy indicator may be stored as a user privacy indicator e.g. stored in a user profile associated with the user .

The sensitivity aggregation module may receive any number of privacy indicators and or sensitivity values and generate a privacy indicator based on the privacy indicators and or sensitivity values . In some implementations the sensitivity aggregation module aggregates privacy indicators and or sensitivity values to generate an aggregate sensitivity value. The sensitivity aggregation module may aggregate the privacy indicators and or sensitivity values in any number of ways. The aggregation of privacy indicators and or sensitivity values associated with an application may be stored in one or more application records by the privacy record module .

In some implementations the sensitivity aggregation module generates a privacy indicator based on other received privacy indicators and or sensitivity values . For example the sensitivity aggregation module may determine a global privacy indicator based on a majority of a group of privacy indicators and or sensitivity values .

The sensitivity assessment module may be configured to generate a global privacy indicator and or aggregate sensitivity values for an application based on received privacy indicators and or aggregate sensitivity values associated with other applications. Many applications may be related. For example an application may be an updated or may be a different version of another application e.g. the ANGRY BIRDS STAR WARS II application is a different version of the ANGRY BIRDS application . The other application may be associated with a different privacy indicator e.g. privacy indicator . Similarly the application may be similar to application . Application may be associated with another privacy indicator . In another example many applications may be related by genre e.g. category such as adult applications gambling applications medical applications children s applications social network applications or the like. Applications may be related to each other in many different ways including but not limited to by application developer title subject matter rating or description. Similar applications may have similar global privacy indicators.

In various implementations the sensitivity assessment module receives an application identifier . In some examples the sensitivity assessment module receives an application identifier from any digital device e.g. as a part of an application search viewing an application or a determination of whether to share information associated with the identified application . The sensitivity assessment module may determine a privacy indicator or a global sensitivity value based on applications that are similar to the identified application .

The sensitivity assessment module may identify application similar to the identified application in any number of ways. In various implementations the sensitivity assessment module may determine if an administrator or software developer has established any rules e.g. from the global privacy indicator rules module defining similar applications for the purposes of assigning global privacy indicator s . For example the software developer of the ANGRY BIRDS game may generate a rule that indicates that all applications related to the ANGRY BIRDS game or the ANGRY BIRDS franchise are similar to each other and or may be assigned similar global privacy indicators.

In another example different applications may be related by category or subject matter. Categories may be defined for example by an administrator one or more users or an operator of an application store e.g. GOOGLE PLAY or APPLE ITUNES . The subject matter of an application may be defined by the application developer title of the application description of an application administrator and or operator of an application store.

After the sensitivity assessment module identifies similar applications to the application identified by the application identifier the sensitivity assessment module may retrieve global privacy indicators for all or some of the similar applications from the global privacy indicator identification module . The sensitivity assessment module may generate a privacy indicator based on the retrieved global privacy indicators e.g. by averaging or otherwise aggregating the global privacy indicators .

The sensitivity assessment module may assign weight to different privacy indicators based on a degree of similarity between applications. For example the sensitivity assessment module may assign high weight to a privacy indicator of a very similar application e.g. same subject matter category and developer while applying a lower weight to privacy indicators of applications that are not as similar e.g. an application that may share similar subject matter but be in a different category . The sensitivity assessment module may assess weighted and or unweighted privacy indicators of similar applications to generate a new global privacy indicator.

In some implementations the sensitivity assessment module receives sensitivity values for all or some of the similar applications e.g. from the application records and or users . The sensitivity assessment module may generate a sensitivity value e.g. an aggregate sensitivity value based on the received sensitivity values e.g. by averaging or otherwise aggregating the sensitivity values of the similar applications .

As similarly discussed regarding privacy indicators the sensitivity assessment module may assign weights to different sensitivity values based on a degree of similarity between applications. For example the sensitivity assessment module may assign a high weight to a sensitivity value of a very similar application e.g. same subject matter category and developer while applying a lower weight for applications that are not as similar e.g. an application that may share similar subject matter but be in a different category . The sensitivity assessment module may assess weighted and or unweighted sensitivity values to generate the aggregate sensitivity value.

The sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module may generate and or initiate a process to generate a global privacy indicator and or an aggregate sensitivity value of an application at any time. For example the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module may generate and or initiate a process to generate the global privacy indicator and or the aggregate sensitivity value periodically e.g. at predetermined or established times at predetermined or threshold time intervals or at a duration of time since the last global privacy indicator and or the aggregate sensitivity value was determined . In another example the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module may generate and or initiate a process to generate the global privacy indicator and or the aggregate sensitivity value after receiving a number of user privacy indicators and or sensitivity values for one or more applications . Further in another example an application may be assigned a global privacy indicator and or an aggregate sensitivity value when added to an application store.

In various implementations the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module will not generate a global privacy indicator or aggregate sensitivity value because of a rule from the global privacy indicator rules module . For example an application developer may assign a global privacy indicator to an application that may not be globally altered e.g. the maker of an adult application may assign a privacy indicator indicating that the information regarding the application is always private or is at a specific privacy level . In this example the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module may determine if there are any applicable rules before generating or initiating a process to generate a global privacy indicator and or an aggregate sensitivity value of the application .

The sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module may or may not generate a global privacy indicator or aggregate sensitivity value for an application if that same application is already associated with a global privacy indicator. In some embodiments the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module generates a global privacy indicator or aggregate sensitivity value for applications without global privacy indicators. In various examples the sensitivity aggregation module and or the sensitivity assessment module generates a global privacy indicator or aggregate sensitivity value for applications with global privacy indicators. If the generated global privacy indicator or the aggregate sensitivity value for an application indicates a change in the previously existing global privacy indicator the privacy system may update the global privacy indicator accordingly and or notify a user e.g. an administrator another digital device or the like of the change.

The global sensitivity threshold module is configured to compare an aggregate sensitivity value from the sensitivity aggregation module or the sensitivity assessment module with one or more thresholds . A global privacy indicator may be based on the comparison. The global sensitivity threshold module may generate and or utilize any number of thresholds .

A threshold may indicate a predetermined value or a range. For example any sensitivity value over a top threshold may indicate a strong intent that information regarding an application be maintained as private e.g. information regarding the application should not be published or shared . A sensitivity value between a middle threshold and a top threshold may indicate a desire that information regarding an application be maintained as private but potentially sharing information with a limited number of others such as close friends. A sensitivity value between the middle threshold and a low threshold may indicate a desire that the information regarding the application not be shared with the public while a sensitivity value below a low threshold may indicate that information associated with the application is not to be considered private. In these examples the global sensitivity threshold assessment module may determine different global privacy indicators for the different ranges depending on the aggregate sensitivity value. In various implementations the global sensitivity threshold assessment module compares the aggregate sensitivity value from the sensitivity determination module to a single threshold to determine whether information regarding the associated application is requested to be or should be considered private e.g. the global privacy indicator may be a flag which if present indicates an intent for privacy while a global privacy indicator without a flag may indicate a lack of such intent .

The threshold rules module may include or retrieve any threshold rules . Threshold rules are rules indicating one or more thresholds . A threshold rule may apply to an application or group of applications e.g. similar applications such as an application that is similarly categorized with similar subject matter similar functions similar titles similar developers or the like . A threshold rule may be defined for example by an administrator or a software developer e.g. a developer of one or more applications .

In various implementations the sensitivity determination module or the sensitivity assessment module may generate an aggregate sensitivity value for an application . The threshold rules module may retrieve one or more threshold rules associated with the application e.g. from an application record that may be stored in the privacy record data store . The rules may indicate one or more thresholds . The global sensitivity threshold module the threshold rules module and or the threshold assessment module may determine a global privacy indicator based on a comparison of the one or more thresholds with the aggregate sensitivity value.

The threshold assessment module may determine a threshold if there are no applicable threshold rules . In some examples the threshold assessment module provides a default threshold for comparison of any aggregate sensitivity value of an application without an associated threshold rule .

The threshold assessment module may determine any number of thresholds in any number of ways. In one example the sensitivity aggregation module may generate an aggregate sensitivity value of a particular application . The threshold assessment module may identify similar applications or group of applications e.g. similar applications such as applications that are similarly categorized with similar subject matter similar functions similar titles similar developers or the like . The threshold assessment module may then retrieve any number of thresholds e.g. from application privacy records associated with the similar applications or group of applications. In various implementations the threshold assessment module may aggregate or group all or some of the thresholds of the similar applications or group of applications to generate any number of thresholds for the particular application associated with the aggregate sensitivity value. The thresholds of the similar applications or group of applications may be previously determined by the threshold rules module . In some examples the thresholds of the similar applications or group of applications may be previously determined by users e.g. users who allow their personal thresholds to be considered or aggregated for generating thresholds for global privacy indicator determination .

In various implementations the sensitivity determination module or the sensitivity assessment module may generate an aggregate sensitivity value for a particular application . The threshold assessment module may determine one or more thresholds associated with applications that are similar to the particular application . The global sensitivity threshold module the threshold rules module and or the threshold assessment module may determine a global privacy indicator based on a comparison of the one or more thresholds with the aggregate sensitivity value.

The privacy record module is configured to retrieve application records from the privacy record data store and or retrieve user profiles from the user profile data store . In some examples the privacy record module may be configured to store global privacy indicator s user privacy indicator s aggregate sensitivity value s user sensitivity value s threshold s and the like within application records in the privacy record data store . Similarly the privacy record module may be configured to store user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s user threshold s and the like within user profiles in the user profile data store .

The privacy record data store may include one or more databases indices e.g. inverted indices files or other data structures that may be used to implement the techniques of the present disclosure. The privacy record data store may store application records . An application record may be any record log account or the like associated with one or more applications. The application record may store for example a current global privacy indicator past global privacy indicators any or all sensitivity values aggregate sensitivity values threshold rules thresholds global privacy indicator rules or the like. The privacy record data store may be encrypted and or require authentication before data may be stored or retrieved.

The user profile data store may include one or more databases indices e.g. inverted indices files or other data structures that may be used to implement the techniques of the present disclosure. The user profile data store may include user profiles . A user profile may be any record log account or the like associated with a user. The user profile may store any number of user privacy indicators associated with any number of application s . The user profile may also store the user s thresholds or any other information. In various examples the user profile data store is encrypted and or requires authentication before data may be stored within a user profile or data may be retrieved from a user profile .

The user profile data store may be optional. For example the user profile and or data associated with the user profile may be maintained only on the user s user device in order to maintain privacy and or security.

The user profile data store may be encrypted. In some implementations the user profile module may store encrypted user privacy indicators and provide the encrypted user privacy indicators without decrypting. For example the user profile module may receive a request to store encrypted user privacy indicators associated with a user and or user device . The user profile module may authenticate the request and store the encrypted user privacy indicators in an account or user profile associated with the user and or the user device in the user profile data store . Subsequently the user profile module may receive a request for the encrypted user privacy indicators . The user profile module may authenticate the request and assuming the request is authenticated provide the encrypted user privacy indicators to the user or the user device . In some examples the user profile module may be configured to provide the user privacy indicators based on a password encryption key MAC address IP address and or the like.

A module may be hardware software or a combination of both. In some implementations a module may instruct a processor to perform methods steps and or functions. In various examples a processor may execute a module to perform methods steps and or functions. Although the privacy system the privacy indication module the sensitivity determination module and the global sensitivity threshold module includes identified modules there may be less or more modules associated with any device that do any number of functions. Further some modules of the digital devices identified herein are optional.

In step the global privacy indicator identification module retrieves a global privacy indicator from an application record associated with the application identifier of the request . In various implementations the global privacy indicator identification module retrieves an application record based on the application identifier . The application record may be stored in the privacy record data store . The privacy record module may retrieve the application record from the privacy record data store . The global privacy indicator identification module may retrieve a global privacy indicator from the application identifier .

In step the global privacy indicator identification module may determine if there are any applicable privacy indicator rules . For example the global privacy indicator rules module and or the global privacy indicator identification module may determine if there are any global privacy indicator rules associated with the identified application . A global privacy indicator rule may influence or override the global privacy indicator retrieved from the application record .

In some examples if there is an applicable global privacy indicator rule that requires a specific global privacy indicator regardless of the global privacy indicator stored in the application record then the global privacy indicator identification module may provide the global privacy indicator identified by the rule . The global privacy indicator rule may be based on conditions. For example a global privacy indicator rule may require a specific global privacy indicator depending on the digital device e.g. based on MAC address user e.g. based on username or authentication information country e.g. based on country associated with the request and or any other factors. In step the global privacy indicator rules module and or the global privacy indicator identification module apply any applicable rules e.g. based on any rule conditions .

In various implementations the global privacy indicator rules indicate whether to share or not to share the global privacy indicator. For example a global privacy indicator rule may indicate it is appropriate to share global privacy indicators with certain requestors e.g. subscribers but not others.

In step the global privacy indicator identification module provides the global privacy indicator. In various implementations the global privacy indicator identification module may provide a global privacy indicator request response including the global privacy indicator. The global privacy indicator provided may be based on the global privacy indicator rules on the global privacy indicator retrieved from the application record or both. In various examples the global privacy indicator identification module encrypts the global privacy indicator request response.

In step the sensitivity aggregation module may retrieve previously received sensitivity values if any and currently received sensitivity values if any associated with the application. In step the sensitivity aggregation module aggregates groups and or analyzes the sensitivity values associated with an application e.g. based on the application identifier to create an aggregate sensitivity value for the application . In various examples different sensitivity values may be weighted differently. For example older sensitivity values may be discounted and or newer sensitivity values may be weighted heavier. In some implementations users or digital devices are identified as being particularly reliable sensitivity values while others are identified as being particularly unreliable. As such the sensitivity aggregation module may assign weights to sensitivity values from these sources accordingly.

In step the sensitivity aggregation module may store the previous sensitivity values if not previously stored and or the aggregate sensitivity value in the applicable privacy application record . Moreover the sensitivity aggregation module may store the application record in the privacy record data store .

In step the global sensitivity threshold module may retrieve a global threshold associated with the application e.g. from the applicable privacy application record . If there is not an applicable global threshold associated with the application the global sensitivity threshold module may retrieve a global threshold associated with one or more other similar applications e.g. based on genre function name software developer rating or the like . If there are no global thresholds and no similar applications the global sensitivity threshold module may apply a default global threshold .

In step the global sensitivity threshold module determines the global privacy indicator based on a comparison of the aggregate sensitivity value from the sensitivity aggregation module to the global threshold . The global privacy indicator may be a flag e.g. present or not present a value indicative of a level of intent for privacy or the like.

In step the global sensitivity threshold module may store the global privacy indicator in the applicable privacy application record . Subsequently the global privacy indicator identification module may utilize or provide the new global privacy indicator as needed.

The user privacy indication module may be configured to request and provide user privacy indicators . In some examples the user may search for information regarding an application and subsequently receive a list of application identifiers . The user privacy indication module may in some examples identify the application identifiers retrieve user privacy indicators associated with the application identifiers and display e.g. on the display of the desktop computing device the user privacy indicators e.g. each user privacy indicator if any being displayed next to the corresponding application identifier in the user interface .

In some examples the user privacy indication module may identify one or more applications as the user views applications on the web or in an application store. Websites and or application stores may display information regarding any number of applications as requested by the user. The websites and or application stores may request that a user privacy indicator associated with the applications be displayed to the user e.g. with or without sending personally identifying information to the websites and or application stores . The request may include application identifiers associated with applications being viewed or searched for by the user. Based on the application identifier the user privacy indication module may retrieve user privacy indicator s from the user profile and display the indicator s to the user. In some examples the user privacy indication module may provide the user privacy indicator s to any number of the website s and or application store s e.g. if the user grants permission for the information to be shared . If the user privacy indicator s are shared with a website and or application store the receiving user device may display the user privacy indicator to the user.

In various implementations the user privacy indication module may request a privacy indicator from the user e.g. utilizing the user interface . The request for a privacy indicator may be shown next to an application identifier e.g. in search results or in any other manner e.g. on a web page in an application store page or the like .

The user privacy indication module may receive user privacy indicator s e.g. from the user interface and store the privacy indicator s in a user profile of the user application data store . The user privacy indication module may display a request to the user for the user privacy indicator in any number of ways including pull down menus e.g. to flag whether information regarding an application associated with an application identifier should be considered private empty fields to receive numbers or words radio buttons buttons or the like.

User privacy indicator s may be private i.e. not shared with any other digital device or only shared with a limited number of digital devices . In some examples the user privacy indicator s and or any user thresholds or other related information may be maintained on the user device without sharing the information with other devices. In some embodiments the user device may share the user privacy indicator s and or any other information but only after the information has been anonymized e.g. stripped of at least some information that may be utilized to identify the user .

The user privacy indication module may provide one or more user privacy indicator s . In some implementations the user privacy indication module may receive a user privacy indicator request from another application on the user device . In some examples a user may select and install a particular application on the user device . The user privacy indication module may either before during or after search selection installation or usage of the particular application request a user privacy indicator from the user for the particular application . The user may provide the user privacy indicator to the user privacy indication module which may then store the user privacy indicator . Another digital device or application including or related to an application store or a social network for example may wish to utilize information associated with the selection installation or usage of the particular application . The application store or social network may request a user privacy indicator associated with the particular application . If the user privacy indicator indicates that the user intends privacy or requests that information regarding the application not be shared the application store or the social network may choose not to share information e.g. choose not to receive the information or provide the information to advertisers based on the user privacy indicator .

As previous discussed the user privacy indicator may be any indication. In some implementations the user privacy indicator is a single value or any number of values. For example one user privacy indicator may indicate that no information regarding an application is to be shared or published. Another user privacy indicator may indicate that limited sharing e.g. with selected users or a user group is acceptable. Still another user privacy indication may indicate public sharing is acceptable.

In some implementations the user privacy indicator may override a global privacy indicator. For example one particular application may not generally be considered to be private and so the particular application may be associated with a global privacy indicator indicating public sharing is acceptable. However the user of the particular application may be more sensitive and require limited or no sharing of information related to the application . In this example the user privacy indicator for the particular user may be utilized while other users may utilize the more permissive global privacy indicator or no global privacy indicator at all for full public sharing . Alternately if the user expressly or otherwise prefers to share information e.g. provides a less restrictive privacy indicator as compared to the global privacy indicator information regarding the application associated with the user may be shared while information of others may not be shared.

The user privacy preferences module is configured to receive user preferences regarding user privacy indicators user sensitivity values and user thresholds . The user may set any number of preferences. User privacy indicator preferences may include any settings related to requesting storing or providing privacy indicators . For example a user privacy indicator preference may indicate that all user privacy indicators are to indicate the strongest privacy option unless the user expressly overwrites the user privacy indicator . In another example a user privacy indicator preference may indicate that all user privacy indicators are to indicate no privacy option or be the same as an associated global privacy indicator if any unless the user expressly overwrites the user privacy indicator .

The user may provide settings to automate association of user privacy indicators for different applications . For example the user may provide a setting that all applications associated with one genre or category are to be considered very private e.g. information related to these applications is not to be shared or published while other applications associated with a second genre or category are to be considered public e.g. information related to these applications may be shared or published . User privacy indicator s may be established and or guided by the user settings in any number of ways.

In various implementations the user may provide settings regarding sharing user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s and or user threshold s . For example a user may indicate that the user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s and user threshold s are not to be shared. In some examples the user may indicate that the user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s and user threshold s may be shared e.g. with a privacy system to assist in the generation of global thresholds aggregate sensitivity values and or global privacy indicators but only if anonymized e.g. all personally identifying information may be removed from the user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s and user threshold s prior to sharing . Other users may indicate that the user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s and user threshold s may be shared without restriction. The user may also establish settings to encrypt information associated with user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s or user threshold s and or require authentication before sharing.

The user sensitivity assessment module may determine a user sensitivity value associated with an application . A user sensitivity value may be any numeric value indicating a degree e.g. an intensity of a user s sensitivity related to sharing or publishing information associated with an application or search. In some examples a high sensitivity value may indicate that a user requests and or strongly prefers that information associated with their selection installation and usage of an application not be shared or published.

The user sensitivity value may quantify sensitivity in any manner. In some examples low sensitivity values may indicate high sensitivity while high sensitivity values may indicate low sensitivity. Moreover sensitivity values may be integers representing a level of sensitivity. Additionally sensitivity values may range between 1 10 integers one being the lowest sensitivity and 10 being the highest.

The user sensitivity assessment module may be configured to generate a user privacy indicator and or a user sensitivity value for an application based on privacy indicators and or a user sensitivity values associated with other applications . As discussed previously many applications are related to other applications . For example an application may be an updated or different version of another application e.g. the ANGRY BIRDS STAR WARS II application is a different version of THE ANGRY BIRDS application . In another example many applications may be related by genre e.g. category such as adult applications gambling applications medical applications children s applications social network applications or the like. Applications may be related to each other in many different ways including but not limited to by application developer title subject matter rating or description. Similar applications may have similar global privacy indicators.

In various implementations the user sensitivity assessment module receives an application identifier . In some examples the user sensitivity assessment module receives an application identifier from any digital device e.g. as a part of an application search viewing an application or a determination of whether to share information associated with the identified application . The user sensitivity assessment module may determine a privacy indicator or a user sensitivity value based on applications that are similar to the identified application .

The user sensitivity assessment module may identify similar applications in any number of ways. In some implementations the user sensitivity assessment module may determine if the user has any rules e.g. from the user privacy preferences module defining similar applications for the purposes of assigning user privacy indicator s . For example the user may generate a rule that indicates that all game applications in general or all applications related to the ANGRY BIRDS game or the ANGRY BIRDS franchise are similar applications and or may receive similar global privacy indicators as each other.

In additional examples different applications may be related by category or subject matter. Categories may be defined for example by the user an administrator one or more users or an operator of an application store e.g. GOOGLE PLAY or APPLE ITUNES . The subject matter of an application may be defined by the application developer title of the application description of an application administrator and or operator of an application store.

After the user sensitivity assessment module identifies similar applications to the application identified by the application identifier the user sensitivity assessment module may retrieve user privacy indicators for all or some of the similar applications from the user privacy indication module . The user sensitivity assessment module may generate a user privacy indicator based on the retrieved user privacy indicators e.g. by averaging or otherwise aggregating the global privacy indicators .

The user sensitivity assessment module may assign different weights to different user privacy indicators based on a degree of similarity between applications . For example the user sensitivity assessment module may assign high weight to privacy indicators of a very similar application e.g. same subject matter category and developer while applying a lower weight for applications that are not as similar e.g. an application that may share similar subject matter but be in a different category . The user sensitivity assessment module may assess weighted and or unweighted privacy indicators to generate the new user privacy indicator .

In some implementations the user sensitivity assessment module may receive user sensitivity values for all or some of the similar applications e.g. from the application records and or users . The user sensitivity assessment module may generate a sensitivity value based on the received user sensitivity values e.g. by averaging or otherwise aggregating the user sensitivity values .

As similarly discussed regarding privacy indicators the user sensitivity assessment module may assign different weights to different user sensitivity values based on a degree of similarity between applications . For example the user sensitivity assessment module may assign a high weight to a user sensitivity value of a very similar application e.g. same subject matter category and developer while applying a lower weight for applications that are not as similar e.g. an application that may sharing similar subject matter but being in a different category . The user sensitivity assessment module may assess weighted and or unweighted user sensitivity values to generate the aggregate user sensitivity value.

The user sensitivity assessment module may generate and or initiate a process to generate a user privacy indicator and or an aggregate user sensitivity value of an application at any time. In some examples the user sensitivity assessment module generates and or initiates a process to generate the user privacy indicator and or the aggregate user sensitivity value periodically e.g. at predetermined or certain times at predetermined or threshold time intervals or at a duration of time since the last global privacy indicator and or the aggregate sensitivity value was determined . In additional examples the user sensitivity assessment module generates and or initiates a process to generate the user privacy indicator and or the aggregate user sensitivity value after receiving a number of user privacy indicators and or user sensitivity values for any number of applications.

The user sensitivity assessment module may or may not generate a user privacy indicator or aggregate user sensitivity value for an application if that same application is already associated with a user privacy indicator . In some implementations the user sensitivity assessment module generates a privacy indicator or aggregate sensitivity value for applications without user privacy indicators . In some examples the user sensitivity assessment module generates a user privacy indicator or aggregate user sensitivity value for applications with user privacy indicators . If the user privacy indicator or the aggregate user sensitivity value for an application indicates a change in the previously existing user privacy indicator the user sensitivity assessment module may update the user privacy indicator accordingly and or notify the user of the change.

In various implementations user sensitivity values and or aggregate user sensitivity values may be compared to one or more user sensitivity thresholds to determine one or more user privacy indicator s . For example a high sensitivity may be compared to a user sensitivity threshold to generate a user privacy indicator indicating the highest request for privacy for information related to the associated application . User sensitivity thresholds may be generated by the user e.g. via the user privacy preferences module . In various examples the user privacy preferences module may retrieve any number of thresholds from the privacy system . Similarly the user privacy indicator generated by the user sensitivity assessment module may be compared to user privacy thresholds to confirm or change the user privacy indicator from the sensitivity assessment module .

The user sensitivity threshold and or the user privacy threshold may indicate a value or a range. For example any user sensitivity value over a top threshold may indicate a strong intent that information regarding an application be maintained as private e.g. information regarding the application should not be published or shared . A user sensitivity value between a middle threshold and a top threshold may indicate a desire that information regarding an application be maintained as private but potentially sharing information with a limited number of others such as close friends. A user sensitivity value between the middle threshold and a low threshold may indicate a desire that the information regarding the application not be shared with the public while a user sensitivity value below a low threshold may indicate that information associated with the application is not to be considered private.

In various implementations the user sensitivity assessment module may identify demographics preferences and or other information regarding the user of the user device . The user sensitivity assessment module may request user privacy indicator s and or global privacy indicator s of other users that are associated with the demographics preferences and or other information of the user of the user device . In some examples the user sensitivity assessment module may provide some user identifying information to the privacy system to request user privacy indicator s global privacy indicator s and or sensitivity value s related to similar users for any number or type of applications in order to assess and or determine user privacy indicator s that is likely to be accurate for the user of the user device . The user sensitivity assessment module may determine user privacy indicator s in any number of ways.

The presentation module is configured to present or share information associated with an application based on the user privacy indicator or the global privacy indicator. In various implementations the user may select and install an application on the user device . The presentation module may detect installation of the application and request a user privacy indicator e.g. from the user privacy indication module associated with the application . The presentation module may request a global privacy indicator if no user privacy indicator is available. The presentation module may determine if information associated with the application is intended to be private e.g. based on the user privacy indicator and or global privacy indicator .

In various implementations based on the user privacy indicator or global privacy indicator the presentation module may direct an operating system to ensure that the application appears only when the user is logged into the user device and or the user is active. The presentation module may control installation such that applications that are private e.g. associated with a particular privacy indicator at or above and or below a given threshold are installed in a common secured folder or in any position on a screen. In some examples the presentation module may make applications not visible to any number of users based on the user privacy indicator and or global privacy indicator.

The presentation module may receive requests to share information regarding an application e.g. from another application or another digital device . The presentation module may allow sharing limited sharing or deny sharing based on the user privacy indicator and or global privacy indicator. Based on the user privacy indicator and or user sensitivity value the presentation module may remove or intercept data tracking of information related to an application e.g. usage or installation of an application not including information related to the application in a log or user history or the like . In some implementations the presentation module is included in the user device the privacy indication module or both.

The security module may limit or prevent access to the user profile user preferences user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s user thresholds or the like. In various implementations the security module may require authentication and or encryption keys before allowing access. The presentation module may locate installed applications of a given privacy level e.g. based on the user privacy indicators of the applications together in a folder or directory. The security module may secure e.g. encrypt or otherwise limit access to the folder or directory. The security module may be controlled by user settings in the user privacy preferences module .

The user application data store may include one or more databases indices e.g. inverted indices files or other data structures that may be used to implement the techniques of the present disclosure. The user application data store may store the user profile user preferences user privacy indicator s user sensitivity value s user thresholds or the like. All or parts of the user application data store may be encrypted.

The user privacy preferences module may include a setting that indicates that no data regarding the user profile user privacy indicator or user sensitivity values leave the user device . Although the user device includes identified modules there may be less or more modules associated with any user device that do any number of functions. Further some modules of the digital devices identified herein may be optional.

In step the user privacy indication module may retrieve user privacy indicators . Each of the user privacy indicators are associated with at least one of a subset of application identifiers in the search results . The user privacy indication module may retrieve privacy indicators from a user profile stored in the user application data store . The user privacy indication module may retrieve privacy indicators stored on any digital device including for example from the privacy system .

There may be any number of user privacy indicators associated with the application identifiers . For example there may be a given number of user privacy indicators associated with five different application identifiers contained in the search results . There may be some application identifiers contained in the search results that are not associated with a user privacy indicator .

In step the user interface presents application identifiers from search results with corresponding user privacy indicators if any. The user interface may present application identifiers from search results with corresponding global privacy indicators if any. In some examples the user interface displays both the user privacy indicator and global privacy indicator associated with an application identifier if both are available. In additional examples the user interface displays only the user privacy indicator if a user privacy indicator for the application identifier is available and only the global privacy indicator if the user privacy indicator for the application identifier is not available.

In step the user interface displays user privacy indicator options. Each of the user privacy indicator options is associated with one of a set of applications identified in the search results . A user privacy indicator option may include a request for the user of the user device to identify a user privacy indicator and or a user sensitivity value . The user privacy indicator option may include a pull down menu of options radio buttons a field or any other functionality. In some examples the user interface displays user privacy indicator options when no user privacy indicator and or global privacy indicator is available. In additional examples the user interface displays user privacy indicator options for each of the application identifiers of the search results .

In step the user interface receives user privacy indicator selections utilizing the user privacy indicator options. In step the user privacy indication module may store user privacy indicator s based on the user privacy indicator selection s . The user privacy indication module may store the user privacy indicator s in a user profile on the user device or any other digital device. In some embodiments the user sensitivity assessment module may store user sensitivity value s e.g. in the user profile .

Optionally in step the user privacy indication module may store the user privacy indicator s in a user profile on the privacy system . In some examples the user privacy indication module may anonymize or otherwise remove personally identifiable information from the user privacy indicator s before providing the information to the privacy system . The user privacy indication module may encrypt the user privacy indicator s before providing the information to the privacy system .

In step the user interface may receive a selection of one of the application identifiers of the search results from the user. In step the presentation module may determine whether to publish e.g. display or share information associated with the selected application e.g. search display selection installation or usage of the selected application based on the selected application s corresponding user privacy indicator if any. If there is no user privacy indicator associated with the selected application the presentation module may determine whether to publish or not publish information regarding the selected application based on the corresponding global privacy indicator. If there is neither a user privacy indicator nor a global privacy indicator associated with the selected application the presentation module may rely on any instructions in the user settings and or determine whether to permit or publish information associated with the selected application .

The memory system is any non transitory memory configured to store data. Some examples of the memory system are storage devices such as RAM or ROM. The memory system can comprise the ram cache. The data within the memory system may be cleared or ultimately transferred to the storage system .

The storage system is any storage configured to retrieve and store data. Some examples of the storage system are flash drives hard drives optical drives and or magnetic tape. The storage system may comprise non transitory media. In some implementations the digital device includes a memory system in the form of RAM and a storage system in the form of flash data. Both the memory system and the storage system include computer readable media that may store instructions or programs that are executable by a computer processor including the processor .

The communication network interface com. network interface can be coupled to a network e.g. network via the link . The communication network interface may support communication over an Ethernet connection a serial connection a parallel connection or an ATA connection for example. The communication network interface may also support wireless communication e.g. 802.11 a b g n WiMax . Moreover the communication network interface can support many wired and wireless standards.

The optional input output I O interface is any device that receives input from the user and outputs data. The optional display interface is any device that is configured to output graphics and data to a display. In some examples the display interface is a graphics adapter. While not all digital devices include either the I O interface or the display interface the digital device may include either both or none.

The hardware elements of the digital device are not limited to those depicted in . A digital device may comprise more or less hardware elements than those depicted. Further hardware elements may share functionality and still be within various implementations described herein. In some examples encoding and or decoding may be performed by the processor and or a co processor located on a GPU i.e. Nvidia .

The above described functions and components can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a storage medium such as a computer readable medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium . The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with embodiments of the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

The present disclosure is described above with reference to exemplary embodiments. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the present disclosure. Therefore these and other variations upon the exemplary embodiments are intended to be covered by the present disclosure.

