---

title: Monitoring systems and methods
abstract: A monitoring system includes a plurality of modules to sense temperature and vibrations of a motor assembly, a hub computer to collect the sensed temperature and vibrations, and an analyzer computer to analyze the collected temperature and vibrations. The modules contain detectors that measure a temperature and vibrations in three axes of the motor assembly, a transceiver integrated circuit that measures a die temperature of the transceiver integrated circuit, a microcontroller integrated circuit that self-adjusts its clock pulses, and a memory that stores parameters set for the operation of the modules. The microcontroller integrated circuit and the memory are configured to check parameters corruption upon transferring the parameters from the memory to the microcontroller integrated circuit and prior to utilizing by the microcontroller integrated circuit. The microcontroller integrated circuit is also configured to perform power control operations by turning off sections of the microcontroller integrated circuit over periodic durations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09435698&OS=09435698&RS=09435698
owner: TDG AEROSPACE, INC.
number: 09435698
owner_city: Escondido
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141215
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 916 592 filed on Dec. 16 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 059 781 filed Oct. 3 2014. The disclosure of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 916 592 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 059 781 filed Oct. 3 2014 are hereby incorporated into by reference.

The present application relates to the field of monitoring mechanical systems having multiple motor assemblies in a closed geographic area in particular with innovative techniques for monitoring the current operating status of the motor assemblies.

Known prior art systems have been deficient in meeting the combination of performance cost and durability in the field monitoring systems for mechanical motor operation in industrial applications having critical fire or operational demands. Known systems have deficiencies such as they often times implement complex processing at a sensor assembly which can drain battery power and may delay the rate of reporting of conditions to a central device. Such systems are also often times bulky or have a significant profile for the purpose of ease of manufacture or ease of maintenance e.g. so that a technician can easily access all components by opening the sensor assembly . Known systems are also often times deficient because they lack the necessary robust wireless capability and power requirements to be able to carry out higher level protocol functionality and to cover contiguous physical areas with potentially lower power transceivers. Accuracy is also an area of significant focus to assist companies. These and other deficiencies are evident in the prior art.

According to principles of the present invention a monitoring system for monitoring a group of motors in a closed geographic area to determine an operating condition of the motor assemblies is provided. The monitoring system comprises a plurality of modules a hub computer and an analyzer.

The modules are adapted to be mounted to a motor assembly to sense vibrations generated by the motor assembly and sense temperature in close proximity to the motor assembly. Each module comprises a shield an enclosure a temperature sensor a vibrations sensor a microcontroller integrated circuit transceiver integrated circuit a battery holder and a battery and a printed circuit board. The temperature sensor generates a temperature signal specifying a sensed temperature. The vibrations sensor senses vibrations existing in three axes and generates three vibration signals specifying vibrations measurement in x y and z axis s. The microcontroller integrated circuit is configured to receive the temperature and vibrations signals and transmit the temperature and vibrations signals to external points. The microcontroller integrated circuit is also configured to perform power control operations by turning off sections of the microcontroller integrated circuit over periodic durations to save battery life and to automatically turn on the sections of the microcontroller integrated circuit when a significant temperature event is determined to be an emergency by the microcontroller integrated circuit when a significant vibration event is determined to be an emergency by the vibrations sensor or when both emergencies are determined. The transceiver integrated circuit is implemented with a wireless mesh network protocol and is configured to receive and transmit the temperature and vibrations signals and a battery level signal. The battery holder is mounted to the printed circuit board running lengthwise across the printed circuit board and the microcontroller integrated circuit is mounted on the printed circuit board in between the battery holder and the printed circuit board. Each module has a dimension that is approximately 8 9 inches long 1 2 inches wide and 1 2 inches deep.

The hub computer is configured to collect the temperature and vibrations signals via the network protocol from the modules and to send the collected temperature and vibrations signals.

The analyzer computer is configured to receive the collected temperature and vibrations signals from the hub computer and process the collected temperature and vibrations signals by determining whether a threshold is reached and generating an alert when the temperature or vibration of the module measuring the motor assembly is above the threshold.

Variations of the system can have fewer or additional components or can include different combinations of the features or structures described herein are also contemplated.

In one embodiment the wireless mesh network protocol is DUST mesh network. In one embodiment the microcontroller integrated circuit further contains an RC network clock source that generates clock pulses. In another embodiment the microcontroller integrated circuit is also set up to self adjust to match the clock pulses of the RC network to clock pulses of the transceiver integrated circuit. When the clock pulses of the microcontroller integrated circuit are faster than the clock pulses of the transceiver integrated circuit the microcontroller integrated circuit applies a correction to slow the clock pulses of the RC network and vice versa. The set up comprises configuring the microcontroller integrated circuit to receive the clock pulses of the transceiver integrated circuit and utilizing the internal registers of the microcontroller integrated circuit and a software provided to the microcontroller integrated circuit. While the microcontroller integrated circuit may depend on the transceiver integrated circuit to correct the clock pulses produced by its RC network the microcontroller integrated circuit and the transceiver integrated circuit perform their own functions independent of each other.

In one embodiment the monitoring system further comprises a memory that stores parameters set for the operation of the modules. In another embodiment the parameters comprise an acquisition rate units of measurement for temperature units of measurement for vibrations and temperature and vibrations thresholds. In yet another embodiment the parameters are further transferred to the microcontroller integrated circuit.

In one embodiment the parameters are checked for corruption after the transfer. The check is performed by the memory generating three copies of the parameters by the microcontroller integrated circuit requesting all of the three copies checking if all of the three copies are identical and storing two of those three copies in the internal RAM of the microcontroller integrated circuit if all of the three copies are identical.

In one embodiment the parameters are checked for corruption before being used by the microcontroller integrated circuit. The check is performed by the memory generating three copies of the parameters by the microcontroller integrated circuit requesting all of the three copies storing two of those three copies in the internal RAM of the microcontroller integrated circuit checking if the two copies are identical and performing a process in which two new copies are generated from the memory and transferred to the internal RAM of the microcontroller integrated circuit to replace the two copies if the two copies are not identical.

In one embodiment the modules further comprise another temperature sensor measuring a die temperature of the temperature sensor. In another embodiment the modules transmit both the die temperature and the sensed temperature to the hub computer. In one embodiment the modules are configured to have an operating temperature of approximately 40 C. to 80 C.

The system can be further enhanced by installed a remote module that senses and reports the inline frequency of a variable frequency drive signal that is applied to a motor to drive the motor. The sense frequency represented actual inline operation state is associated with the sensed vibrations resulted from the applying the variable frequency drive to the motor. If desired the system is desired to receive the frequency data that in response to set the frequency that is applied to that monitored motor based on the vibrational data receives from the vibration sensors for that motor. The power sensor module receives a current signal representative of a variable drive frequency applied to a motor assembly and is configured to sense a frequency of the variable drive frequency by detecting zero crossing events in the current signal and wirelessly transmit the sensed frequency in the same sensed network as the other modules.

Various embodiments different combinations of features adding removing or combining different features or other applications of the technology are also contemplated. For example a module can be used with other devices such as a diagnostic forecasting system that forecasts expected life of mechanical components or the mechanisms for maintaining timing between chips or verifying accuracy of data can be used in other devices or applications if desired.

Systems and methods according to one or more embodiments of the invention provide elegant efficient and cost effective options for monitoring the operating condition of mechanical components of fuel farms or if desired other electromechanical systems having motors or rotating components. By monitoring mechanical operation of components such as motors and their environment systems and methods can allow a human operator to make early decisions to determine whether to perform diagnostics or conduct physical inspection of components. The systems and methods combine different features to provide modules and monitoring systems that outperform prior art systems such as by being power efficient being cost effective having a low profile and having other performance characteristics. Existing known systems do not provide combinations of benefits and performance illustratively described herein.

Referring to one embodiment of the monitoring system for monitoring a motor assembly is illustrated. Monitoring system may comprise a plurality of modules a motor assembly to be monitored a hub computer an analyzer computer and a reporter .

Module is adapted to be mounted to the motor assembly to be monitored either to the frame of motor assembly or to the motor assembly itself to acquire data generated by motor assembly . Multiple modules may be employed to simultaneously monitor multiple different motor assemblies. The data generated may be in the form of temperature vibration current voltage sound or combination thereof. In one example module may be configured to sense temperatures and vibrations generated by motor assembly . The sensed temperatures and vibrations and those other temperatures mentioned below may be expressed as either real numbers or absolute values for analysis. Module may also have different data acquisition intervals and different data acquisition durations that can be selected depending on the desired measurements. For instance module may be configured to have a one hour interval and one second duration so that module acquires the temperature and vibration data every hour over a one second period. Other intervals and durations are also available depending on the motor assembly s operating condition and the user s need. A motor assembly prone to electrical or mechanical problems may be monitored more frequently.

Modules and are utilized in conjunction with module or with each module if there is more than one module to assist the determination of the operating condition of motor assembly and to relay the data acquired to hub computer . The relay is earned out through the transceivers of modules . Either or both modules and may also be configured to sense the environment temperature of the location in which motor assembly is installed. The sensed environment temperature is useful in determining the temperature of motor assembly at a specific time and the temperature change of motor assembly influenced by the environment temperature in a given period of time. Since sensing the environment temperature requires a measurement without the influence from the heat generated by motor assembly modules and are preferably positioned not on motor assembly and at a location distant from motor assembly . Although only two modules and are shown modules more than or less than two can be implemented with monitoring system depending on the distance between module and hub computer . When module is in close proximity to hub computer direct communication without utilizing modules and is preferred for faster transmission either through wireless or wired connection. When module is remote from hub computer indirect communication relaying through modules and is preferred. As such the communication between module and hub computer can be extended and wireless connection is favored.

Motor assembly may include for example motors engines fans blowers gearboxes compressors spindles cooling towers belts and chain drives pumps and pumping stations manufacturing and power plants food and beverage packing machines HVAC system equipment automotive suspension testing equipment bridge vibration testing equipment shock and vibration testing equipment crash testing equipment and electro dynamic shaker testing equipment.

Hub computer may be an electronic device such as a computer configured to collect the temperature and vibration data from modules and to send the collected data to analyzer computer via a wireless network. Hub computer may also communicate with modules and analyzer computer through wired connection. Hub computer may be placed at a location remote from modules and analyzer or at the same location as analyzer computer and be physically coupled to analyzer computer .

Analyzer computer may comprise hardware and software designed to receive the data from hub computer and process and analyze the data. The hardware and software may comprise software to determine the operating status of motor assembly . The software may be customized by the user to match the data generated by motor assembly such as the temperature and vibration data in this embodiment. The software can be configured to provide the user with at least one threshold for each of the temperature and vibration data. Analyzer computer compares each of the measured temperature and vibration data with each respective threshold. The thresholds may be entered directly into analyzer computer in advance if they are known such as the maximum tolerable temperature and vibration of motor assembly provided by the industry or by the manual came with motor assembly . They can also be determined and set by premeasuring the temperatures and vibrations of motor assembly in normal operating condition over a period of time averaging the premeasured data and multiplying the averaged data by the appropriate number that constitutes a critical condition.

When the measured data is above the threshold analyzer computer would generate an alert to inform the user of a potential motor assembly problem or failure. In one example the algorithms may utilize a rolling average calculation each set of data to compare against the thresholds. In another example the algorithms may utilize instantaneous peak values to compare against the thresholds. In yet another example the algorithms may utilize the average of the instantaneous peak values to compare against the thresholds. In yet another example the algorithms may utilize the difference between the temperature of the motor assembly and the environment temperature to compare against the thresholds. Analyzer computer may store the received data and the processed and analyzed data in storage elements including RAM ROM disk drives compact disks and floppy disks and may further transmit those data to a third party supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system.

Reporter is an output device that displays information from analyzer computer to the user. Referring to the displayed information may include the current environment temperature the vibration and temperature thresholds the measured vibrations in the three axes and temperature and the name and status of the motor assembly being monitored. The vibration and temperature thresholds may further have a low moderate and severe level with which the measured vibrations and temperature are compared to determine the operating condition of the motor assembly. If the measured vibration in one of the axes or temperature exceeds one of the levels reporter will update the status by displaying the level that the measurement exceeds. When no measurement exceeds a threshold the status will display NORMAL. For example as shown in the low moderate and severe temperature thresholds may be set by the user to be 70 F. 80 F. and 90 F. respectively and the low moderate and severe vibration thresholds may be set to be 0.5 g 1.5 g and 3.0 g respectively. Since the measured temperature is 67 F. and does not exceed any of the temperature threshold levels a status update is not required. However since the measured vibration in the z axis is 3.75 g and exceeds the severe vibration threshold level 3.0 g reporter will display SEVERE or ALARM in the status and may further beep to catch the user s attention. Reporter may be a cathode ray tube CRT based television liquid crystal display or any device capable of displaying information. Reporter may be integrated with analyzer computer to save space or can be separated from analyzer computer if reporter is large in size.

Referring to the internal details of modules are discussed. Each module comprises detectors a transceiver integrated circuit a power supply a microcontroller integrated circuit a memory and a printed circuit board PCB on which detectors transceiver integrated circuit power supply microcontroller integrated circuit and memory are mounted and electrically connected. Each module may also contain controls and displays that allow the user to manually and individually transmit the data acquired by and adjust the thresholds of each module and to locally observe the data being sensed by modules when the user is nearby the module s . While the figure currently shows that transceiver integrated circuit and microcontroller integrated circuit are two separate components they may be one single integrated component that has functions of both components in another embodiment.

Detectors can comprise analog and digital electronics designed to detect filter analyze and store the temperature and vibration data generated by motor assembly . Detectors for example may comprise a temperature sensor that measures the temperature of motor assembly the environment temperature and a die temperature and generates a signal corresponding to each temperature and a vibrations sensor that measures vibrations in the three axes of motor assembly and generates a vibration signal corresponding to each measurement in the x y and z axis. All the measured temperatures may be measured as the actual temperature sensed such as 60 F. as the rate of temperature change such as increasing or decreasing at 1 F. per second for a period of time as an average of the actual temperature sensed in a period of time or as an average of the rate of temperature change for multiple periods of time. These measurements may be stored in the internal registers of the temperature sensor that may be read by microcontroller integrated circuit . In module the temperature sensor may be an infrared IR sensor that measures the motor assembly temperature. In modules the same sensor measures the environment temperature. The measured die temperature may be compared with the motor assembly temperature and the difference between the two temperatures may be a good indicator of the operating condition of motor assembly . Thus different amounts of the difference may be set as thresholds as well to notify the user. The vibrations sensor may be a MEMS 3 D accelerometer configured to measure a vibration in the range of 0 to 16 g.

The microcontroller integrated circuit and the modules and can be implemented to include a particular process with respect to temperature monitoring. The microcontroller integrated circuit may be first initialized to read a temperature from the temperature sensor which is a base temperature and to set the measurement interval for temperature acquisition by the temperature sensor. The initialization step may occur at the power on of the microcontroller integrated circuit or any time when the microcontroller integrated circuit resets the operation of the temperature sensor. The measurement interval may be every 100 ms every 3 seconds or at any other interval set by the user. If desired the temperature sensor can be programmed to perform temperature acquisition at the measurement interval rate before it is installed or at installation such that it does not depend on the microcontroller for specifying the interval rate. In a preferred embodiment the measurement interval is every 3 seconds. After the initialization step the microcontroller integrated circuit goes into sleep indefinitely by turning itself off or by turning sections of the microcontroller integrated circuit off and the temperature sensor measures a temperature at the user set interval such as every 3 seconds to obtain the most recent base temperature. The microcontroller integrated circuit sleeps even when the temperature sensor is measuring the temperature. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand the meaning of a sleep state such as in devices that have multiple operating states such as three state design on off and sleep states. A sleep state can for example be one in which the device receives and applies power in order to only be able to receive and respond to interrupts e.g. to maintain an operating state to a minimal amount for be able to handle a small subset of functionality until the device turns on fully on . In another embodiment the microcontroller integrated circuit may be configured to sleep only between each measurement and to be awakened when there is a measurement. For instance using the above example the microcontroller integrated circuit sleeps for 3 seconds and is awakened every 3 seconds.

As shown the temperature sensor is an integrated circuit a chip that is formed from semiconductor material and installed on a PCB. Detectors or others sensors are also implemented using integrated circuits. Preferably the temperature sensor and vibration sensor are separate semiconductor chips. The microcontroller integrated circuit is a separate chip.

With respect to the operative process for monitoring temperature after each measurement by the temperature sensor the temperature sensor has the circuitry and or software configured internally that compares the measured temperature with a maximum tolerable temperature. The maximum tolerable temperature may be a factory specified operational threshold for the monitored equipment but is preferably a rise target which is the sum of the base temperature measured and provided to the microcontroller IC when the device was turned on or reset and a user supplied time interval times a user supplied slope. The rise target for example is 27 C. when the base temperature is 25 C. and the user selects 1 minute for the time interval and 2 C. minute for the slope. The rise target is also the maximum allowed temperature of the user supplied time interval or the 1 minute interval based on the above example. The factory specified operational threshold and or the rise target are stored in the memory of the temperature sensor as MaxTemp. If desired it can be stored in a register that is part of the temperature sensor or in other parts of the temperature sensor as long as it is accessible to the temperature sensor.

When the comparison shows in the temperature sensors finds that the measured temperature is greater than the maximum tolerable temperature or the rise target the temperature sensor interrupts or awakens the microcontroller integrated circuit . The interruption causes the microcontroller integrated circuit to request a temperature read from the temperature sensor which is the temperature exceeding the maximum tolerable temperature and to send the read temperature and an alarm via a wireless network technology to the user hub computer analyzer or reporter .

When rise target is used as the maximum tolerable temperature the microcontroller integrated circuit may perform a comparison as follow. The microcontroller integrated circuit compares the difference in time since it last set the MaxTemp value or to a value of 1 minute based on the above example. This value represents the time the temperature has to remain below the MaxTemp value to be considered as less than Maximum Temperature Rise Rate. Thus if the elapse time was less than a minute then the microcontroller integrated circuit knows that the temperature rise rate has exceeded the limit and it processes to send an alarm to the host computer via the wireless network. If however the elapsed time is greater than a minute then the temperature rise rate has not exceeded the limit the microcontroller recalculates the MaxTemp value using the currently measured temperature resets the temperature sensor and goes to sleep again. In other words the temperature rise check is performed after the microcontroller integrated circuit is interrupted by the temperature sensor and only the elapse time is used to determine if Max Temp Rise Rate has been exceeded.

Accordingly while the microcontroller integrated circuit immediately captures temperature increase after it is interrupted the rate is not being continuously calculated and checked by either the temperature sensor or the microcontroller integrated circuit . This is an expedient method of guarding against temperature rises while minimizing the amount of power the microcontroller integrated circuit and the temperature sensor use.

Temperature sensor and microcontroller integrated circuit collaborating in such a manner provides an improved monitoring system and process. Temperature sensor and microcontroller integrated circuit having the above configurations can prolong the life time of battery while continuously checking if the being monitored equipment is operating normally e.g. the temperature is not spiking . The above configurations can also check if there is accelerated or rapid temperature increase because the temperature sensor can identify if the current temperature the based temperature measured by the temperature sensor is above a temperature value representative of temperature rate increase above a pre specified threshold rise target .

While the microcontroller integrated circuit is interrupted or awakened when the base temperature exceeds a maximum tolerable temperature the microcontroller integrated circuit may also be interrupted under other circumstances such as when it is instructed by an accelerometer vibration exceeding a threshold when it receives a request from a host computer or DUST network controller for data or information or when there are other situations such as low battery watchdog console etc. All these other interruptions can apply to the microcontroller integrated circuit whether it is configured to sleep indefinitely or to sleep only between each measurement and to be awakened when there is a measurement. When the microcontroller integrated circuit is interrupted by the temperature sensor or under one of those circumstances the microcontroller integrated circuit can request a new base temperature from the temperature sensor and will again calculate and store the MaxTemp value rise target in the temperature sensor before putting itself to sleep again.

It is likely that in operation the device will be able to operate on battery power for long periods of time due its configuration described above. It is likely that interrupts or alarms requiring an interrupt will occur a very small percentage of the time. With this technique the microcontroller can remain asleep requiring little power indefinitely until an interrupt is triggered a rare event such as if the device is experiencing a sudden unexpected rise in temperature. The structure of the temperature sensor can also be very simple because it may only need to perform a comparison against a threshold temperature to determine whether to issue an interrupt. The microcontroller also has an efficient process because it simply only needs to compare the current time to the time the Max Temp was calculated for the temperature sensor to determine if the time interval is less than the time interval used in calculating the Max Temp.

All these measured temperatures and vibrations may be transmitted to hub computer or analyzer computer with or without filtering analyzing or conditioning by the sensors. These processing may include taking the Fourier Transform and derivative of the measurements and determining the number of signal peaks in a duration or interval. When the measurements are transmitted without processing they may be subsequently processed at hub computer or analyzer computer . In preferred embodiments detectors and microprocessor integrated circuit are configured or adapted to sense temperature and vibration conditions and to transmit the sensed state e.g. sensed temperature sensed vibration measurement etc. to hub computer or analyzer computer without processing.

Transceiver integrated circuit can be a wireless communications integrated circuit designed to implement a particular wireless network protocol including combinations of low and high level protocols necessary for next hop or network level communications management and can include an internal sensor on board the IC chip designed to measure a die temperature of transceiver integrated circuit . This measured die temperature may be measured as the actual temperature sensed as the rate of temperature change as an average of the actual temperature sensed in a period of time or as an average of the rate of temperature change for multiple periods of time similar to the temperature sensor of detectors . Transceiver integrated circuit can include an on board processor designed to process the information transceiver integrated circuit receives and transmits. The wireless communications or transceiver integrated circuit handles wireless protocol interactions and lower level functions such as modulation and transmission. The wireless network protocol may be WiFi Bluetooth HART e.g. wireless HART DUST networks mesh network and or Zigbee. The protocol frequency and configuration of the wireless network protocol may be selected to optimize the throughput range and power requirements of modules and monitoring system . Transceiver integrated circuit may also be coupled to an antenna and utilized in conjunction with the wireless network protocol to achieve the optimization. Like the aforementioned temperature and vibrations measurements this measured die temperature can also be either processed or unprocessed by transceiver integrated circuit before transmitting to module hub computer or analyzer computer . When processing is desired before transmitting the measured die temperature is first sent to microcontroller integrated circuit for processing. When no processing is wanted before transmitting the measured die temperatures is transmitted directly to module hub computer or analyzer computer . The unprocessed measured die temperature can then be subsequently processed by hub computer or analyzer computer . Moreover this die temperature may serve the same function as the die temperature of the temperature sensor of detectors calculating the difference between the motor assembly temperature and this die temperature that may be used to compare against the thresholds of this difference. In preferred embodiments the die temperature of the temperature sensor of detectors is used for calculating the difference. However in another embodiment the die temperature of transceiver integrated circuit may be used. Unprocessed data refers to the measured temperature or vibration level. Minimally processed data can also provide advantages such unprocessed data. For example performing simple averaging identification of peaks or other simple processes that is low weight in calculation and complexity can have similar advantages and can be sent by the module over the network. Transceiver integrated circuit should always be powered on to allow the measuring of the die temperature and so as to handle transmission and reception of data between modules and hub computer . Nevertheless it may also be configured to not always be powered on and to measure only once in a while such as every 15 minutes.

Power supply may be an internal power source such as a battery or if desired an external power source such as an electrical outlet or USB connection. When the power supply is a battery a battery holder may be employed to connect the battery to PCB .

Microcontroller integrated circuit is configured to receive the temperature and vibration signals from the sensors of detectors and a battery level signal to process the received signals and to transmit the processed signals to transceiver integrated circuit . One embodiment reflecting processing and packet communications structure of embodiments of the systems and components of the present invention is shown in .

Referring to when microcontroller integrated circuit receives the signals microcontroller integrated circuit generates a message packet using message layer for carrying each temperature signal received each vibration signal received and the battery level signal received. The message packet is then encapsulated by microcontroller integrated circuit with an application programming interface API data to form an API layer message packet . API layer message packet is then further encapsulated by microcontroller integrated circuit with high level data link control HDLC information to form a HDLC layer message packet that is subsequently sent to transceiver integrated circuit . The API and HDLC encapsulations provide the protocols necessary to transmit the temperature vibration and battery level signals from microcontroller integrated circuit to transceiver integrated circuit .

After transceiver integrated circuit receives the HDLC layer message packet transceiver integrated circuit un encapsulates the HDLC information and replaces that information with the appropriate information or wireless protocol information associated with the transceiver integrated circuit. The resulting layers are then transmitted to modules and if hub computer is remote from module or to hub computer if hub computer is in close proximity.

In this arrangement a packet based communications approach is used onboard the circuit of the module assembly. The processor and related circuitry e.g. configuration programming or data which is sometimes just referred to as the processor generates packets that are in a format and protocol that is compatible with the protocol and structure used by the on board transceiver circuit to receive data to be transmitted down stream. The processer is configured to generate packets to contain a message that is compatible with the application running at the end device for using and viewing the data contained in the message.

Microcontroller integrated circuit typically comes with a clock source such as crystal oscillator ceramic resonator integrated silicon oscillator or RC network. In one embodiment as shown in a microcontroller integrated circuit containing an RC network is used. An RC network is preferred because it is lower in cost and is also smaller in size. However it is less reliable in maintaining a constant clock rate and as such its clock pulses may not remain in sync with the clock pulses generated by the clock source of transceiver integrated circuit after extensive periods of usage. Data the above mentioned message packets are transferred from microcontroller integrated circuit to transceiver integrated circuit using a serial connection . When the clock pulses of microcontroller integrated circuit are out of sync with the clock pulses of transceiver integrated circuit this may cause errors in the data transfer and communications between the circuits. To overcome this problem microcontroller integrated circuit is set up to self adjust to match the clock pulses of transceiver integrated circuit . For example when the clock pulses of microcontroller integrated circuit are faster than the clock pulses of transceiver integrated circuit microcontroller integrated circuit would apply a correction to slow down the clock pulses of the RC network and vice versa. The self adjusting feature is implemented by configuring microcontroller integrated circuit as a slave to the timing of transceiver integrated circuit and by utilizing the internal registers of microcontroller integrated circuit and a software provided to microcontroller integrated circuit .

Microcontroller integrated circuit is also configured to reduce the power consumption of modules and monitoring system . This may be achieved by turning off sections of microcontroller integrated circuit for most of the time sleep mode and to automatically turn on those sections only at specified intervals wake up mode and only when a significant temperature event a significant vibration event or both are sensed to be an emergency by detectors wake up mode . For example sections of microcontroller integrated circuit may be configured to remain off or sleep normally and to turn on or wake up only every hour and only when either the measured vibration or temperature exceeds a certain threshold level. In another example those sections of microcontroller integrated circuit may be configured to turn on or wake up every 8 to 16 seconds to read the measured motor assembly temperature and the die temperature of the temperature sensor of detectors and calculate their difference to average all the differences in a one hour period after an hour and to determine if the average exceeds a certain threshold level. In this second example those sections of microcontroller integrated circuit may also be further configured to turn on or wake up when either the measured temperature or vibration exceeds a certain threshold level outside the regular 8 to 16 seconds wake up period. As such whether a problem occurs during the wake up mode or sleep mode the user will always be notified.

Since electronics require sometime to transition from sleep mode and wake up mode to be active the turning on process may be initiated at a few seconds preferably less than 10 milliseconds before the measurement or transmission time. Microcontroller integrated circuit may further include turning off the sections mentioned above permanently until a new battery is inserted and transmitting only the low battery level signal while those sections are off. Microcontroller integrated circuit having all these configurations renders a battery life of about an year. Microcontroller integrated circuit may contain an internal RAM to store information retrieved from memory without repeatedly requesting the same information when needed.

Memory may be a non volatile memory such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM that can store information even when modules are not powered. The information stored may include parameters that are configured for the operation of modules such as acquisition rate units of measurement for temperature which may include Celsius or Fahrenheit units of measurement for vibration which may include g or m s and temperature and vibrations thresholds. These parameters are accessible and retrievable by microcontroller integrated circuit for the operation of modules once modules are powered by power supply .

Due to potential noise and electromagnetic interference from the electronics in modules motor assembly and the environment in which the motor assembly is installed these parameters sometimes may be corrupted in two situations. In the first situation the parameters may be corrupted when they are transferred from memory to microcontroller integrated circuit . In the second situation the parameters may be corrupted after storing the transferred parameters in the internal RAM of microcontroller integrated circuit after a long period of time. Thus it is desired to check the parameters if they are accurate in these situations.

Referring to one embodiment of PCB is illustrated. PCB comprises four layers a top layer a bottom layer a power layer not shown and a ground layer not shown . The power and ground layers are sandwiched by the top and bottom layer. PCB has circuitry on both the top and bottom layer for electrically connecting all the electronics thereon to each other. The temperature and vibrations sensors may be placed on the bottom layer as shown in and the battery and battery holder if an internal power source is utilized may be placed on the top layer shown in . In this way larger and more sophisticated temperature and vibration sensors and a larger capacity battery may be utilized without physically interfering with each other and yet still have a module that is compact in size. The battery and battery holder may also be placed directly over some of the integrated circuits on the top layer to reduce their footprints on PCB so that the module size can be further reduced. When module is mounted on motor assembly the bottom layer with the sensors faces toward motor assembly to measure temperatures and vibrations. Detectors the transceiver integrated circuit power supply microcontroller integrated circuit memory and PCB all are housed in an enclosure .

Referring to one embodiment of the enclosure is illustrated. The enclosure may comprise a base having a first end and a second end a lid covering the base a gasket placed between the base and the lid an antenna mount connected to the first end an adapter connected to the second end and a shield covering the base the lid and the gasket wherein the shield has a first hole through which the antenna mount penetrates to connect to an antenna and a second hole through which mounting hardware such as screws and washers may be inserted to fix the shield to the adapter .

The base should have an internal volume with sufficient depth to house detectors transceiver integrated circuit power supply microcontroller integrated circuit memory and PCB . When power supply is a battery the battery along with the battery holder may be mounted in the base lengthwise.

The shield is made of a material that is capable of withstanding extreme weather and various harsh industrial environments to protect the electronics in the module. The shield may be solar proof windproof waterproof heatproof or any combination thereof. However the shield is optional and may or may not be required depending on where modules and motor assembly are installed either indoors or outdoors and the harshness of the environment in which motor assembly is installed. For example modules generally may not require the shield if they are used indoors and may require such shield only if used outdoors or if used indoors and the indoor environment is harsh due to the operational nature of motor assembly . The shield can minimize influence from these areas on the measurements. In a preferred embodiment the enclosure has an environmental protection rating of IP66.

The adapter provides structures that can physically connect the modules to the frame of the motor assembly the motor assembly itself or places where modules are desired. The adapter also has a means material or structure that allows the temperature and vibrations sensors in the base to perform and receive measurements from motor assembly .

An enclosure with the above arrangement and assembly provides a module that is compact in size and that can withstand severe weather and industrial environments. Such enclosure provides low profile module that preferably has a length in the range of 8 9 inches a width in the range of 1 2 inches and a depth in the range of 1 2 inches. Each module having such enclosure weights approximately 7.3 oz. Preferably the module is configured to have an operating temperature of approximately 40 C. to 80 C. This is implemented by way of using components that meet those performance capability and the arrangement and configuration of the module and components as show to achieve such characteristics. Thermal and vibrational monitoring may preferably have a rigid enclosure whereas voltage and current monitoring may preferably have electrically conductive or inductive connections. Moreover the enclosure preferably does not in any way hinder the sensing receiving and transmitting of the temperature and vibrations data.

The enclosure may further contain colored LED lights to indicate acceleration and heat intensity. For example green yellow and red light may indicate low medium and high acceleration and or heat intensity respectively.

The module may be configured using two internal temperatures sensors e.g. die sensor and IR sensor measuring associated device temp to compare and determine a slope of the temperature over a short period of time. A sudden peak in the slope can signify an alarm condition and be communicated from the module or can be identified by the analyzer computer or other computer by performing the comparison or readying the slope e.g. if the system transmits the slope . The sudden peak can be configured on the module as an emergency alert that prompts transmission out of cycle or scheduling timing.

In some embodiments a power sensor feature can be integrated into the system with the temperature and vibration sensors. The integration of the power sensor can improve the operational performance of the monitored system. The feature is directed to associating sensed vibration information with the variable frequency power signal applied to an individual motor or pump. Each or substantially all of the motors in the system under monitoring can be monitored with respect to their power signal and its association with its corresponding vibration data sensed by the monitoring system. In some embodiments the monitoring system is configured to monitor the variable power signal and associated vibration data and in response automatically set the power signal e.g. frequency of the alternating current signal for a motor or each individual motor to receive a power signal that corresponds to the operational state for that specific and actual motor reflecting the design or wear of the motor over the years which minimizes vibrations minimizes low frequency vibration for that motor or achieves some other desired performance characteristic. The feature can be implemented as a separate and distinct module separate from the temperature and vibration modules

As discussed above the new feature can be integrated into the above design and incorporated into the system as an additional sensor component that uses the above described approach e.g. for wireless communications data communications device housing etc. . Additional sensors are added that will sense the electrical signal supplied to individual motors which measure the frequency of the current driver . The signal can be indicative of the speed of operation of the corresponding motor. The sensed electrical signal information is associated by the vibration monitoring system with the sensed vibration data that is received from the vibration sensors. The data is displayed to the user at a hub or diagnostic computer that receives the data wirelessly from the sensors or from a hub that wirelessly receives the data. The electrical signal sensors is remotely located such as close to the motors. The maintenance personnel can preferably see the vibration effect of the electrical signal e.g. different speed signals as sensed by viewing vibration data e.g. graphs in correspondence with the speed signal.

The sensed frequencies of drive current result in showing the frequency or frequencies corresponding to the least amount of vibrations. The drive current can be automatically or manually varied and in response the monitoring system will sense receive store and or display the response vibration data from the above describe sensors . Resonant frequencies can be avoided using the system such as by implementing a processer and software that automatically avoids the resonant frequencies. Other configuration or application are also contemplated. For example there may be some drive current frequencies that minimize low frequency vibration while leaving high frequencies harmonics. The decision about what constitutes a good or bad vibration can configured to be a decision for the maintenance engineering crew to manually assess or automatically monitor and identify. The sensed power signal information can be collected and displayed in a display on a screen.

The sensor measures the frequency of the current driver. For example with reference to a sensor and monitoring module is provided that is configured to sense and measure the frequency of a current drive. Module can include zero cross detector microcontroller microprocessor external flash connection programming port RF module antenna and power supply components . Module receives a current drive signal which is the signal used to drive one of the motors from variable frequency drive .

In operation module includes an attachment mechanism that physically attaches to a structure at a physical point for monitoring the current driver. Module receives the variable frequency drive on line . In this embodiment the power signal is a variable frequency drive that is a three phase power signal. Module monitors any two of the three phases of the variable frequency drive. These two signals which in some implementations are approximately 440V are sent into module through a chain of resistors if desired the resistors are positioned within the housing of module . The resistor chain produces a current that is applied to zero cross detector . The zero cross detector includes an optocoupler that includes LED which is supplied the current. The output of the optocoupler is a rectangular pulse that is generated in response to the received current signal. Microcontroller measures the time period from leading edge to leading edge. This time period is wirelessly reported onto the DUST network using RF module and antenna . This data is collected at the main control PC and adds frequency values to the vibration and temperature values already being logged by the monitoring system which is connected to the machinery being driven by the variable frequency drive being sensed and monitored . The data can be received at the hub computer analyzer and or reporter. The system can if desired automatically correlate vibration to frequency and can determine if there are mechanical resonances in this machinery that should be avoided when the setting for the variable frequency derive is set for operation. The sense frequency measure based on leading edge to leading edge measurement can be displayed on a receiving computer. Module can use the same components hardware and or software that are describe herein for the vibration module that implements communications capability with other modules or hub computer.

The monitoring system can therefore include a power sensor module that receives a current signal representative of a variable drive frequency that is applied to a motor assembly and is configured to sense a frequency of the variable drive frequency by detecting zero crossing events in the current signal and wirelessly transmit the sensed frequency. The transmission and module can be in the same network as the other modules and the system receives the sensed frequency and vibration signals e.g. at hub or other central point as feedback and in response to the feedback modifies the variable drive frequency to a set a drive frequency that improves an operational state of the corresponding motor e.g. reduces vibrations avoid certain vibration frequency such as low frequency or other operational vibrating characteristic . Other techniques for detecting the frequency are also contemplated.

A variable frequency drive is an AC power source whose output frequency can be varied depending on the load being driven.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will understood from the present description that the systems and in particular the modules and hub are for implementation in a local area for a particular operation of a facility. The modules are preferably part of the same wireless local area network in the geographic area of the facility.

With the aforementioned configurations and features a highly efficient accurate low profile and low power monitoring system can be materialized. Moreover since the present monitoring system focuses mainly on providing monitored results to the user and alerting the user of certain operating status conditions it can minimize on board electronics processing and complexity to achieve those functions while also using a complex low powered networking protocol. As a result the present monitoring system is much simpler in design and structures compared to other monitoring systems currently in the market that employ complicated electronics and algorithms to execute complicated functions such as storing historical health information performing diagnostics and predicting when failure is likely to happen. These complicated electronics algorithms and functions increase error rate enlarge system size and increase power consumption.

Computers or processors described herein are configured for operation to provide functions or an application by having an associated non transient memory e.g. ROM hard drive etc. that contain computer executable code that together with the computer and processor implements the functions or applications on the computer or processor and circuitry . It should be understood that a computer or processor can include one or more computers or processors. Steps or elements of processes described herein can be or be implemented using computer executable instructions that are earned out by a computer or processor. Steps or process elements can include additional or fewer steps and could be carried in different order as would be generally understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it will be understood that various changes additions and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly no limitation should be imposed on the scope of the present invention except as set forth in the accompanying claims.

Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have same meaning as commonly understood by the person of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used herein and in the appended claims the singular form a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. All technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning. Thus the scope of the embodiments of the present invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the Figures.

