---

title: Managing features associated with a user equipment based on a location of the user equipment within a vehicle
abstract: In an aspect, a user equipment (UE) is positioned within a driver operation zone of a vehicle, one or more UE-based user interfaces (UIs) are restricted and forwarded to a vehicle-based UI controller to permit access to the one or more UE-based features via a vehicle-based UI. In another aspect, the UE in the driver operation zone is engaged in hands-free speakerphone mode via a vehicle audio system of the vehicle, and an attempt to transition the UE to handset-based audio mode is blocked. In another aspect, when a handset-based audio capture and/or playback attempt of the UE is detected, the UE interacts with a vehicle audio system to temporarily reduce volume being output by one or more proximal speakers. In another aspect, the UE streams media to a media presentation device in its own zone or another zone of the vehicle for presentation thereon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537989&OS=09537989&RS=09537989
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09537989
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140304
---
Aspects of this disclosure relate generally to managing features associated with a user equipment UE based on a location of the UE within a vehicle.

Distracted driving is a major problem today and UEs such as smartphones are a leading cause of distractions. Current approaches to limit this type of distraction usually require user intervention. For example while some UEs support driver modes that allow drivers to opt into a safer experience the user still needs to manually enable the driver mode. One barrier to automatically setting the smartphone s mode is being able to automatically detect whether a phone or other client device is actually being operated by the driver. For example a UE can be registered to a driver but despite this registration the UE could be operated by a passenger instead of the driver.

Further even if a particular UE can be identified as driver operated simply blocking all features of a driver operated UE may be a draconian safety solution. For example an in vehicle user interface UI can provide a safe mechanism through which the driver can access various features but it is generally difficult for UEs to extend and or handoff their particular UIs onto in vehicle UIs.

In an aspect a user equipment UE is positioned within a driver operation zone of a vehicle one or more UE based user interfaces UIs are restricted and forwarded to a vehicle based UI controller to permit access to the one or more UE based features via a vehicle based UI. In another aspect the UE in the driver operation zone is engaged in hands free speakerphone mode via a vehicle audio system of the vehicle and an attempt to transition the UE to handset based audio mode is blocked. In another aspect when a handset based audio capture and or playback attempt of the UE is detected the UE interacts with a vehicle audio system to temporarily reduce volume being output by one or more proximal speakers. In another aspect the UE streams media to a media presentation device in its own zone or another zone of the vehicle for presentation thereon.

The disclosure relates in some aspects to managing features of a client device or user equipment UE based on a location of the UE within a vehicle. For example one aspect of the disclosure relates to determining that the UE is positioned in a driver zone of the vehicle and then forwarding a user interface UI of the UE to a vehicle UI controller for presentation via a vehicle UI instead of the UI of the UE e.g. see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to determining that the UE while engaged in hands free speakerphone mode is positioned in a driver zone of the vehicle and then blocking a transition of the UE from the hands free speakerphone mode to handset based audio mode when an attempt to transition the UE into handset based audio mode is detected e.g. such as when the UE is moved in proximity to an ear of an operator of the UE see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to determining a current zone of the vehicle in which the UE is located detecting an incoming call directed to the UE and then temporarily reducing volume of one or more proximal speakers based on the zone determination e.g. see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to determining a current zone of the vehicle in which the UE is located classifying the determined zone as an administrator zone or a guest zone and then permitting a level of access to data and or services via the UE that is based on the zone determination e.g. see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to determining a current zone of the vehicle in which the UE is located associating the UE with a set of media presentation devices based on the zone determination and then streaming media from the UE to the associated set of media presentation devices for presentation thereon e.g. see . Another aspect of the disclosure relates to determining a current zone of the vehicle in which the UE is located receiving a request to stream media to a different zone than the current zone associating the UE with a set of media presentation devices of the different zone and then streaming media from the UE to the associated set of media presentation devices for presentation thereon e.g. see .

Aspects of the disclosure are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific aspects of the disclosure. Alternate aspects may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the aspects described herein the corresponding form of any such aspects may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to a server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the server via the core network and or the Internet and or to provide content e.g. web page downloads to the UEs.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the aspects of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of aspects of the disclosure.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B access point a BS Node B or eNodeB in the RAN etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers such as the server etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an aspect that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the aspects described below in more detail.

The various aspects may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

With reference to UE interacts with an in vehicle location detection system e.g. such as the Bluetooth in vehicle location detection system described above with respect to to determine whether UE is positioned in the driver zone of the vehicle . For example similar to the discussion above with respect to in Bluetooth signals can be exchanged between a Bluetooth transceiver on UE and the Bluetooth transceivers through in order to calculate the relative in vehicle position of UE within the vehicle . The relative in vehicle location can then be compared with the driver zone to determine whether the relative in vehicle location falls within the defined driver zone illustrated in .

At if UE is determined not to be positioned in the driver zone then UE does not restrict one or more UE based UIs provisioned on UE for accessing one or more UE based features . For example the one or more UE based UIs can include a texting UI and the one or more UE based features can include access to a corresponding texting application such that functions to permit texting by an operator of UE . In another example the one or more UE based UIs can include a web browsing UI and the one or more UE based features can include access to a corresponding web browsing application such that functions to permit web browsing by an operator of UE .

Alternatively if UE is determined to be positioned in the driver zone at then UE restricts the one or more UE based UIs provisioned on UE for accessing the one or more UE based features . However instead of merely restricting the one or more UE based UIs based on the driver zone determination at UE also forwards the one or more UE based UIs to a vehicle UI controller of the vehicle that is configured to control the vehicle UI . For example the UI forwarding that occurs at can include UE connecting if necessary to the vehicle UI controller and then sending UI specific information related to the restricted UE based UI s . The vehicle UI controller receives the forwarded UE based UI s at and configures the vehicle UI to permit access to the UE based feature s based on the forwarded UE based UI s . The vehicle UI controller does not necessarily configure the vehicle UI as a clone of the restricted UE based UIs at although this is certainly possible. For example as shown in with respect to a restricted web browsing UI a mobile web browsing UI is blocked as shown at and the mobile web browsing UI is forwarded to a touchscreen interface of the vehicle UI . However as shown in the web browsing vehicle based UI is modified to conform to the resolution and or aspect ratio of the touchscreen interface which is different than a display screen of UE in this example. Any web browsing commands input into the web browsing vehicle based UI are forwarded to UE for processing e.g. connecting to the Internet to actually fetch a requested web site etc. .

In a further example of of the UI forwarding can be a partial or complete handoff of the UE based feature s from UE to the vehicle UI controller in one or more other implementations. For example a web browsing application on UE may forward a particular state e.g. a current web site such as www.cnn.com to the vehicle UI controller and the vehicle UI will then load its own vehicle based web browsing application to the particular state and will thereafter rely upon the vehicle s own network connection to actually download any associated data and so on. So the forwarding of does not necessarily imply that the vehicle UI is simply an extension of the UE based UI s . Further the intelligence behind the UE based UI s can also be split between UE and the vehicle UI . For example in a media playback example the media remains stored on UE a media search UI is loaded onto the vehicle UI for searching within the media storage on UE and any media selected for playback is streamed from UE to the vehicle UI controller where it is rendered for playback by the vehicle . Thereby a forwarded UI can correspond to a mere extension of the UE based UI s onto the vehicle UI with the UE ultimately maintaining control and responsibility for the implementation of any features or alternatively a forwarded UI can correspond to a partial or complete handoff of control and or responsibility for the implementation of any features from UE to the vehicle UI controller or vehicle UI .

UE periodically interacts with the in vehicle location detection system to determine whether UE is still positioned within the driver zone of the vehicle e.g. similar to . At if UE is determined to remain positioned in the driver zone then the process returns to and the UE based UI s continue to be restricted and forwarded to the vehicle UI controller. Alternatively if UE is determined to no longer remain positioned in the driver zone at then UE stops restricting the UE based UI s UE stops forwarding the UE based UI s to the vehicle UI controller and the vehicle UI controller reconfigures the vehicle UI to stop permitting access to the UE based feature s using the forwarded UE based UI s . For example as will be understood from a review of assume that UE is initially positioned at Position within the driver zone as shown in resulting in an initial driver zone determination for UE at . However UE is later passed from a driver of the vehicle to a passenger sitting in passenger seat or and thereby moves to Position outside of the driver zone as shown in . At this point the UE based UI s would become unblocked or unrestricted so the passenger can access the UE based feature s via the UE based UI s .

With reference to UE begins to or continues to engage in hands free speakerphone mode via the vehicle audio system of the vehicle and the vehicle audio system plays audio via speakers and that is streamed from UE while capturing audio via microphone . While engaged in hands free speakerphone mode UE will monitor whether UE detects an attempt to transition UE from the hands free speakerphone mode into handset based audio mode . For example can include monitoring whether UE is being moved into proximity of an operator s ear which can be interpreted as indicative of a desire of the operator to speak into the UE s microphone instead of the microphone . Ear proximity detection of UEs is well known in the art and involves one or more proximity sensors that can be deployed on UEs such as UE and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. If UE determines that there is no detected attempt to transition into handset based audio mode at the process returns to and UE continues in hands free speakerphone mode via the vehicle audio system. Otherwise if UE determines that UE has detected an attempt to transition into handset based audio mode at instead of merely switching from hands free speakerphone mode to handset based audio mode e.g. whereby UE s speakers and and microphone are used to handle the call instead of the vehicle audio system UE interacts with an in vehicle location detection system e.g. such as the Bluetooth in vehicle location detection system described above with respect to to determine whether UE is positioned in the driver zone of the vehicle e.g. similar to and or of .

At if UE is determined not to be positioned in the driver zone then UE transitions from hands free speakerphone mode into handset based audio mode and the vehicle audio system stops playing audio that is streamed from UE and or delivering microphone captured audio to UE . Alternatively if UE is determined to be positioned in the driver zone then UE blocks the transition from hands free speakerphone mode into handset based audio mode and the process returns to where UE continues in hands free speakerphone mode. As will be appreciated even if the operator of UE wants to hold UE to his her ear and speak directly into it the operator in the process of is forced to use hands free speakerphone mode so long as UE remains positioned in the driver zone .

With reference to assume that the vehicle audio system is playing audio in accordance with an in vehicle audio output scheme at . For example at the vehicle audio system may be playing music a phone call conversation involving a driver of the vehicle and so on. At while the audio continues to be played at a given UE detects handset audio capture and or playback at a given UE in the vehicle e.g. an incoming call arriving at the given UE a call originated by the given UE a YouTube video being played at the given UE activation of an audio recording function on the given UE such as the given UE turning on an audio capture mode for a call or voice memo function etc. . In response to the handset audio capture and or playback detection from the given UE interacts with an in vehicle location detection system e.g. such as the Bluetooth in vehicle location detection system described above with respect to to determine a current zone in which the given UE is positioned . For example similar to the discussion above with respect to in Bluetooth signals can be exchanged between a Bluetooth transceiver on the given UE and the Bluetooth transceivers through in order to calculate the relative in vehicle position of the given UE within the vehicle . The relative in vehicle location can then be evaluated to determine which of zones through from that the relative in vehicle location falls within.

At the given UE interacts with the vehicle audio system to temporarily reduce volume of one or more proximal speakers that are mapped to the determined zone from . For example the given UE can report its determined zone to the vehicle audio system and identify which proximal speakers to target for sound reduction or even muting or alternatively the given UE can look up the proximal speakers to target for sound reduction and ask the vehicle audio system to reduce or even mute sound for those particular speakers. In either case the vehicle audio system lowers audio volume being output by the one or more proximal speakers based on the zone determination . In an example with reference to if the given UE is operated by a user seated in passenger seat within zone the proximal speakers targeted for sound reduction may include a set of speakers such as and if the given UE is operated by another user seated in passenger seat within zone the proximal speakers targeted for sound reduction may include speakers and and so on. As will be appreciated the proximal speakers mapped to a particular zone may be dependent on the audio characteristics of the in vehicle configuration . Further the volume reduction for each proximal speaker may be based on one or more volume reduction parameters. The one or more volume reduction parameters may include an expected impact of sound upon the particular zone a volume level prior to the temporary reduction and or a target volume level for the one or more proximal speakers during handset based audio capture and or playback within the particular zone. In a further example different proximal speakers may be targeted with different degrees of sound reduction e.g. for a zone reduction speaker may be reduced by 10 while speaker is reduced by 25 because speaker emits more volume into zone and so on . Also the sound reduction can be implemented as an absolute reduction or a relative reduction e.g. if the proximal speakers include a first speaker emitting high volume and a second speaker emitting low volume based on the in vehicle audio output scheme prior to the detection of then it is possible that only the first speaker will have its sound reduced at because the second speaker is already below a target volume threshold for the sound reduction .

At the given UE determines whether the handset audio capture and or playback is over. If not the one or more proximal speakers continue to emit the lower audio volume in . Otherwise if the given UE determines that the handset audio capture and or playback is over at the given UE interacts with the vehicle audio system to reset the volume output by the one or more proximal speakers to its previous level s and the vehicle audio system implements the volume reset such that the one or more proximal speakers once again output audio in accordance with the in vehicle audio output scheme .

Referring to the given UE interacts with an in vehicle location detection system e.g. such as the Bluetooth in vehicle location detection system described above with respect to to determine a current zone in which the given UE is positioned . For example similar to the discussion above with respect to in Bluetooth signals can be exchanged between a Bluetooth transceiver on the given UE and the Bluetooth transceivers through in order to calculate the relative in vehicle position of the given UE within the vehicle . The relative in vehicle location can then be evaluated to determine which of zones through from that the relative in vehicle location falls within.

In the example of assume that the given UE determines its current zone to be an administrator zone in e.g. the driver zone or zone zone where an adult is expected to sit etc. . Accordingly the given UE permits the first level of access to data and or services that is associated with the administrator zone . For example at the given UE may permit unrestricted access to web sites via a mobile web browser access to financial information or documents stored on the given UE auto saved passwords may be accessible to permit quick log ins to mobile applications and or web sites and so on.

The given UE continues to periodically monitor its current zone via the in vehicle location detection system . If a classification e.g. administrator zone or guest zone of the current zone of the given UE is determined to be unchanged at then the process returns to and the given UE continues to permit the first level of access to data and or services. As will be appreciated the zone itself can change without the zone classification or type being changed so the given UE can be passed from one administrator zone to another while providing continuous first level access to the data and or services. Otherwise if the classification of the current zone of the given UE is determined to be different at e.g. the given UE was passed by a parent in zone to a child sitting in zone or zone the process advances to . At assume that the given UE determines its new zone classification or zone type is a guest zone and is no longer an administrator zone. Accordingly the given UE switches its permission structure so as to permit the second level of access to data and or services that is associated with the guest zone . For example at the given UE may permit restricted access only to child safe web sites via a mobile web browser access to financial information or documents stored on the given UE may be blocked auto saved passwords may not be accessible so that a parent or supervisor is required to enter passwords on behalf of the subordinate operator and so on. As will be appreciated from a review of an administrative operator can customize the zone configuration e.g. which zones are administrator zones which zones are guest zones of various guest zone tiers or levels etc. so that group specific e.g. for particular families etc. zone configurations can be implemented.

With reference to a given UE interacts with an in vehicle location detection system e.g. such as the Bluetooth in vehicle location detection system described above with respect to to determine a current zone in which the given UE is positioned . For convenience of description assume that the current zone of the given UE is determined to be zone at . The given UE identifies the media presentation device being mapped to zone at and the given UE associates with the media presentation device . For example at the given UE may form a connection to the media presentation device the given UE may determine the display capability e.g. resolution aspect ratio etc. of the media presentation device etc. At some later point in time the given UE receives a request to output media e.g. a YouTube video a Netflix movie etc. within zone . At this point due to the zone specific association from the given UE formats the media for presentation by the media presentation device and then streams the formatted media to the media presentation device and the media presentation device outputs the media .

The given UE continues to periodically monitor its current zone via the in vehicle location detection system . For convenience of description assume that the given UE detects that its zone has changed from zone to zone at e.g. a user of the given UE in zone has passed the given UE to a different user seated in zone a user seated in zone changed his her seat position and is now seated in zone etc. . The given UE identifies the media presentation device being mapped to zone at and the given UE discontinues its association with the media presentation device that is mapped to zone and establishes an association with the media presentation device . At this point the given UE stops streaming the media to the media presentation device and begins to stream the media to the media presentation device and the media presentation device outputs the media . As will be appreciated if the given UE determines that the media presentation device has different display capabilities as compared to the media presentation device e.g. higher resolution etc. the media streamed at may be formatted differently than the media streamed previously at .

In response to the request from the given UE identifies the media presentation device being mapped to zone at and the given UE in zone associates with the media presentation device that is mapped to zone . For example at the given UE may form a connection to the media presentation device the given UE may determine the display capability e.g. resolution aspect ratio etc. of the media presentation device etc. Based on the zone specific association from the given UE formats the media for presentation by the media presentation device and then streams the formatted media to the media presentation device and the media presentation device outputs the media . As noted above if requested the media can also be streamed to the media presentation device in the given UE s current zone as shown by optional dotted line and e.g. and also other zones not shown .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a computer readable medium embodying a method for operating a UE within a vehicle with an in vehicle configuration that includes a driver operation zone including determining that the UE is located within the driver operation zone of the vehicle based upon interaction between the UE and an in vehicle location detection system restricting in response to the determination one or more UE based user interfaces UIs provisioned on the UE for accessing one or more UE based features and forwarding in response to the determination the one or more UE based UIs to a vehicle based UI controller that is coupled to a vehicle UI of the vehicle that is accessible to an operator of the UE within the driver operation zone to permit access to the one or more UE based features via the vehicle based UI.

Another aspect of the disclosure can include a computer readable medium embodying a method for operating a UE within a vehicle with an in vehicle configuration that includes a driver operation zone including detecting while the UE is engaged in hands free speakerphone mode via a vehicle audio system of the vehicle an attempt to transition to a handset based audio mode determining that the UE is located within the driver operation zone of the vehicle based upon interaction between the UE and an in vehicle location detection system and blocking the transition to the handset based audio mode based on the determination that the UE is located within the driver operation zone

Another aspect of the disclosure can include a computer readable medium embodying a method for operating a UE within a vehicle with an in vehicle configuration including a plurality of zones including detecting a handset based audio capture and or playback attempt by the UE while audio is being output in accordance with an in vehicle audio output scheme by a vehicle audio system that includes a plurality of speakers provisioned within the vehicle determining that the UE is located within a given zone from the plurality of zones based upon interaction between the UE and an in vehicle location detection system and interacting with the vehicle audio system to temporarily reduce volume by one or more proximal speakers of the given zone.

Another aspect of the disclosure can include a computer readable medium embodying a method for operating a UE within a vehicle with an in vehicle configuration that includes a plurality of zones that each include at least one media presentation device including determining that the UE is located within a given zone from the plurality of zones based upon interaction between the UE and an in vehicle location detection system receiving a request to stream media from the UE to at least one zone identifying at least one target media presentation device in the at least one zone associating the UE with the at least one target media presentation device in the at least one zone and streaming the media from the UE to the at least one target media presentation device in the at least one zone for presentation thereon. Accordingly the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated examples.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

