---

title: Method and system for data driven checklist sharing
abstract: A method for checklist sharing. The method includes monitoring actions of a user on a computer device, identifying an action of the user, identifying a transaction record based on the action, identifying a checklist based on the transaction record, sending a notification of the checklist to the user, receiving, from the user, a download request to download the checklist, and providing the download of the checklist to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444860&OS=09444860&RS=09444860
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 09444860
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
Task management software applications offer checklist creation for users. A checklist is used by a user to organize a life event such as planning a wedding and starting a business. However a checklist created by a user in a task management software application may be used solely by the user. Rather than using the checklist another user may then reinvent the wheel and create another checklist. Moreover a user may benefit from a checklist but may not be aware that the checklist exists in a task management software application.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for checklist sharing. The method includes monitoring actions of a user on a computer device identifying an action of the user identifying a transaction record based on the action identifying a checklist based on the transaction record sending a notification of the checklist to the user receiving from the user a download request to download the checklist and providing the download of the checklist to the user.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium storing instructions for checklist sharing the instructions including functionality for monitoring actions of a user on a computer device identifying an action of the user identifying a transaction record based on the action identifying a checklist based on the transaction record sending a notification of the checklist to the user receiving from the user a download request to download the checklist and providing the download of the checklist to the user.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for checklist sharing. The system includes a computer processor a checklist application system executing on the computer processor configured to monitor actions of a user on a computer device identify an action of the user identify a transaction record based on the action identify a checklist based on the transaction record send a notification of the checklist to the user receive from the user a download request to download the checklist and provide the download of the checklist to the user. The system further includes a data repository configured to store transactions records wherein each transaction record includes financial data of users store templates of checklists and store checklists.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for sharing checklists. Specifically embodiments of the invention automatically notify a user of a checklist based on an action of the user on a computer device. The actions of a user are monitored to identify an action that triggers a search of stored checklists. A checklist may be identified based on mined transaction records. In one or more embodiments of the invention user preferences may refine the search of stored checklists.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data repository is any type of storage unit and or device e.g. a file system database collection of tables or any other storage mechanism for storing data. Further the data repository may include multiple different storage units and or devices. The multiple different storage units and or devices may or may not be of the same type or located at the same physical site. The data repository may be stored on a local server as memory stored in a cloud computing environment or on a remote server. Examples of data stored by the data repository are shown and discussed in relation to .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist application system monitors the actions of a user on a computer device. A user performs multiple actions on a computer device. In one embodiment of the invention an action may correspond to a user s use of a computer device. Exemplary actions of a user on a computer device include but are not limited to using a computer application performing financial transactions sending an email setting a location on a map application using the GPS of a mobile device or any action a user is capable of performing on a computer device. For example the checklist application system may monitor the user s use of an Internet browser application to perform a search in a search engine. In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist application system mines data in the data repository based on actions of a user. The checklist application system searches the checklists to identify a checklist or a subset of a single or multiple checklists. In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklists are identified based on the data in the data repository discussed in .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist application system may include functionality to learn a user s preference based on the checklists downloaded by the user and the checklists ignored by the user. The search of the checklists to identify a checklist or subset of a single or multiple checklists may then be based on the mined data in the data repository and the user s preferences. For example a user that downloaded a checklist of how to prepare for hiking in Vancouver over a checklist of things to do in downtown Vancouver may be notified of a checklist of hiking preparation the next time the user is in a hiking region. The checklist application system triggers a notification of the checklist or subset of checklists to an instance of the checklist application of a user described below . In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist application system retrieves the checklist or subset of multiple checklists from the data repository based on a user s request to download the checklist. The checklist application system may execute in a cloud computing or a server environment. In one embodiment of the invention the checklist application system executes one or more instances of the checklist application.

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more instances of the checklist application e.g. checklist application instance A A checklist application instance B B are configured to display a notification that a download of a checklist exists store checklists downloaded by a user and provide a user interface not shown . In one or more embodiments of the invention the notification informs a user about the existence of a checklist. The notification is sent by the checklist application system to a checklist application instance executing on a computer device. The notification may be in the form of text a message an email a link to the checklist application instance or any suitable form where the user is given notice. In one or more embodiments of the invention the notification may be displayed while a checklist application instance is executing in the background of the computer device or while the checklist application instance is executing in the foreground on the computer device. In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist application instance stores one or more checklists downloaded by the user directly as physical memory or indirectly as a data structure used by software or as memory stored in a cloud computing environment on the computer device.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user interface not shown of one or more instances of the checklist application is any sort of interface including a graphical user interface. The user interface includes but is not limited to functionality to receive inputs from a user to create a checklist accept a download a checklist ignore a download of a checklist submit a checklist submit a rating of a downloaded checklist discussed in modify a downloaded checklist and submit a modified checklist. A checklist application instance is executed by a user either locally or via a computer network not shown . A computer network may include local area network wide area network Internet mobile phone network WIFI or any other suitable wired and or wireless data network similar to the network shown and described in relation to . In one or more embodiments of the invention a user e.g. user A A user B B is a user of one or more instances of a checklist application. Although not explicitly shown multiple users may exist each using a respective computer device to execute a respective checklist application instance. The users form a community . The community includes the users e.g. user A A user B B of the checklist application instances as well as possibly other interested and or qualified individuals.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the computer devices e.g. computer device A A computer device B B are any type of computing device of a user capable of processing data. For example the computer device may include but is not limited to a mobile device a laptop computer a desktop computer personal digital assistant gaming console smart phone computing spectacles glasses or a tablet. Although not shown in users may have multiple computer devices. For example user A A may use one computer device to run the checklist application instance A A and another computer device to instant message friends to discuss the contents of the checklist.

While shows a configuration of components other configurations may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. For example various components may be combined to create a single component. As another example the functionality performed by a single component may be performed by two or more components.

In one or more embodiments of the invention transaction records may include but are not limited to personal financial data and small business financial data within financial products both personal and business facing including Intuit products such as Quickbooks Quicken Intuit Financial Services Paper Trail and Inventory Tracker . These trademarks are those of Intuit Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Exemplary financial data include but are not limited to purchases loans budget plans emails a calendar in Quicken or any financial data that may be mined by the checklist application system. For example a transaction record may be a user s car payments that are part of the user s budget in Quicken .

In one or more embodiments of the invention templates are files that may serve as the starting point for the creation of a checklist by a user. For example the template may be an editable word processing document with built in formatting that may not be modified by a user such as layout of the document font size and style. In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist application system may retrieve a checklist template from the data repository to the checklist application instance of a user.

In one or more embodiments of the invention each checklist of the checklists stored in the data repository i.e. checklist A A checklist N N include checklist items e.g. checklist items and metadata e.g. metadata . In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist item is a word or phrase representing a component of a checklist. For example a checklist item of a how to maintain a car checklist may be change your oil in 3 months or after 3000 miles. In one or more embodiments of the invention metadata is data that represents a set of data. Metadata or the set of data includes a rating e.g. rating keywords e.g. keywords and checklist relationships e.g. checklist relationships .

In one or more embodiments of the invention a rating e.g. rating is an evaluation of a checklist defined by users of the checklist application instances. Specifically users of the checklist application instances review a checklist and submit a rating of the checklist to the checklist application instances. For example the rating may be a numeric value that defines how much the content of the checklist is useful to the user. The rating may correspond to the average of the ratings provided by each user. In one embodiment of the invention the rating may correspond to the average of the ratings provided by each user and the number of downloads of a checklist.

In one or more embodiments of the invention keywords e.g. keywords are words or phrases that describe the contents of a checklist. The keywords may correspond to the words or phrases in the title of the checklist. The keywords may also correspond to words or phrases that are in the contents of a checklist multiple times. For example a how to prepare for a fishing trip checklist includes checklist items 1 buy a fishing rod and 2 buy fishing bait. A keyword of the how to prepare for a fishing trip checklist may be fishing as it appears multiple times in the contents of the how to prepare for a fishing trip checklist.

In one or more embodiments of the invention checklist relationships e.g. checklist relationships are the connections of a checklist to other checklists including but not limited to parent child and grandchild. For example a user may download a how to sew checklist and modify the how to sew checklist to a how to sew for beginners checklist. Since the how to sew for beginners checklist is based on the how to sew checklist the how to sew for beginners checklist is the child of the how to sew checklist. Similarly the parent of the how to sew for beginners checklist is the how to sew checklist .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the checklist relationships of the checklists in the data repository may be used to create a display in the form of a web or similar of checklists to provide a method to search or be notified of the checklists. Each web of checklists includes checklists that are related to one another. For example a user s action of purchasing traveler s insurance for a trip to Florida may identify a things to do in Florida checklist that has multiple children in the checklist relationships in the metadata of the things to do in Florida checklist. The user may then be notified of the things to do in Florida checklist and the multiple children checklists.

While shows a configuration of components other configurations may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. For example various components may be combined to create a single component. As another example the functionality performed by a single component may be performed by two or more components.

Turning to in Step the actions of a user are monitored in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Exemplary actions of a user on a computer device include but are not limited to using a computer application making financial transactions sending an email setting a location on a GPS of a mobile device or any action a user is capable of performing on a computer device. For example an action may be a user s use of a global positioning system GPS application on a mobile device or an event a user schedules in a calendar on a laptop computer. In one or more embodiments of the invention the actions of a user may be monitored by the checklist application system. In one or more embodiments of the invention the actions are monitored through an Application Programming Interface API . Through the API actions may be sent by the computer device or particularly the computer application executing on the computer device to the checklist application system that is listening for actions from a computer device. In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist application instance requests permission to monitor the actions of a user on a computer device when the checklist application instance is installed on the computer device.

In Step a determination is made regarding whether an action of a user triggers a search of the checklists in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention an action of a user that triggers a search of the checklists may be an action a user does not perform repeatedly. For example the action of a user booking a flight to Spain has not occurred in the past and triggers a search of the checklists. However the action of a user booking a flight to Ottawa happens each year and does not trigger a search of the checklists. If a determination is made that the action of the user does not trigger a search of the checklists the method may return to Step to continue to monitor the actions of a user.

Returning to Step if a determination is made that the action of the user does trigger a search of the checklists the method may proceed to Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In Step a transaction record or a subset of transaction records are identified based on the action of the user. In one or more embodiments of the invention the transaction records mined are based on matching action keywords to transaction keywords. Action keywords correspond to a word or phrase describing the action of the user. For example the user action of booking a flight to Spain may have keywords flight to Spain that are searched against the transaction keywords of the transaction records. Transaction keywords correspond to a word or phrase in the contents of the transaction record. For example the transaction record of a receipt of a flight booking from Washington D.C. to Spain on Dec. 21 2013 may have the keyword Spain that is searched against the user action keywords flight to Spain. In one or more embodiments of the invention transaction records correspond to financial data within financial management products such as Intuit products including but not limited to Quickbooks Quicken Intuit Financial Services Paper Trail and Inventory Tracker . Exemplary financial data include but are not limited to purchases loans budget plans emails related to Intuit products a calendar in Quicken or any financial data within Intuit products that may be mined by the checklist application system.

In Step a checklist is identified based on the transaction records identified in Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist is identified by the checklist application system by matching keywords in the metadata of a checklist in the data repository to transaction keywords in the transaction records in the data repository. In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist is identified by the application system by the checklist relationships in the metadata of a checklist in the data repository. In one or more embodiments of the invention the search of the checklists to identify a checklist may be refined by the checklist application system by learning user preferences of the user. User preferences may include but are not limited to settings set by the user in the checklist application instance of the user and checklist downloads previously accepted and ignored by the user. For example a user may ignore notifications of checklists that include shopping. The checklist application system may then exclude checklists with keywords that include shopping in the search of the checklists. In one or more embodiments of the invention a subset of checklists is identified. The subset of checklists may be applicable to the action of the user. For example a user traveling to Vancouver may be notified of the following checklists 1 things to do in downtown Vancouver 2 hiking in Vancouver 3 preparing to move to Vancouver 4 restaurants to try in Vancouver and 5 how to find a job in Vancouver.

In Step a notification of a checklist or a subset of checklists is sent in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the notification is sent to a user of a checklist application instance. The user then makes a selection to accept the download of a checklist or ignore the download of a checklist. The notification may be in the form of text a message an email a link to the checklist application instance or any suitable form where the user is given notice of a checklist.

In Step a request to download a checklist is received in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Prior to receiving the request to download a checklist the user receives a notification of a checklist see Step and accepts the download of the checklist. In Step the download of a checklist is provided to a user of the checklist application instance. In one or more embodiments of the invention issuing the request to download a checklist and providing the download of a checklist to a user may occur using an API.

In Step the rating of the checklist is updated in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the rating corresponds to an evaluation of the checklist defined by users of the checklist application instances. The rating may be in the form of an alphanumerical value a five star rating or any suitable form that evaluates how useful the contents of a checklist are to a user. Users of the checklist application instances may review a checklist and submit a rating of the checklist to the checklist application instances. The rating may correspond to the average of the ratings provided by each user. The rating of the checklist is updated to include the user s rating that requested the download of a checklist in Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the rating may correspond to the average of the ratings provided by each user and the number of downloads of a checklist. The user that requested the download of the checklist in Step may not submit a rating of the checklist. However the number of downloads increases by one and the rating is updated to reflect the increase in the number of downloads.

In Step a determination is made regarding whether the checklist is modified in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The user may download a checklist or items on a checklist then choose to modify the checklist. The user may then submit a request to upload the modified checklist.

If a determination is made that the checklist is modified the method may proceed to Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention a checklist is modified if a user submits a modified checklist after downloading the checklist. In Step the checklist relationships in the metadata of the modified checklist are updated to include the checklist as the parent of the modified checklist. Further the checklist relationships may be updated to include any children of the checklist as siblings of the modified checklist. The checklist relationships in the metadata of the checklist are modified to include the modified checklist as a child of the checklist.

In Step the modified checklist is uploaded in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the modified checklist is stored in the data repository. The modified checklist may be mined by the checklist application system to notify another user of the modified checklist.

Turning to in Step a user performs an action in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Exemplary actions of a user on a computer device include but are not limited to using a computer application performing financial transactions sending an email setting a location within a map application using a GPS of a mobile device or any action a user is capable of performing on a computer device. In one or more embodiments of the invention the action in Step is an action that does not occur repeatedly for the user. For example an action that does not occur repeatedly is the user purchasing the user s first car.

In Step the action is sent to the checklist application system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the action is sent by the computer device or particularly the computer application executing on the computer device to the checklist application system through an API.

In Step the user receives a notification of a checklist in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user receives the notification of a checklist while the checklist application instance is running in the foreground or the background. The notification may be in the form of text a message an email a link to the checklist application instance or any suitable form where the user is given notice of a checklist. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user may then accept the download of a checklist or ignore the download of a checklist.

In Step the user downloads the checklist in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention prior to downloading the checklist the user accepts the download of the checklist. In one or more embodiments of the invention a user receives the download of a checklist from the checklist application system through an API. In one or more embodiments of the invention the downloaded checklist is stored on the user s computer device.

In Step a determination is made regarding whether the user modifies the checklist in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. If a determination is made that the user modifies the checklist the method may proceed to Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In Step the user modifies the checklist using the user interface of the checklist application instance. The user may modify the checklist by modifying the title of the checklist deleting one or more checklist items from the checklist adding one or more checklist items to the checklist or editing the contents of one or more checklist items.

In Step the user submits the checklist for uploading in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user submits the modified checklist to the checklist application system for uploading the modified checklist into the data repository. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user submits the modified checklist for uploading to share the modified checklist to other users of the checklist application instances.

In the example illustrated in consider the scenario in which Bob performs an action to trigger a notification of checklist A submitted by Sarah. Sarah creates checklist A A on how to create a tea collection in a checklist application instance on Sarah s laptop . Checklist A A includes the following checklist items 1 buy tea kettle 2 buy tea infuser 3 buy tea cups and 4 buy tea measuring spoon. Sarah then submits checklist A A to the checklist application instance running on Sarah s laptop . The checklist relationships in the metadata of checklist A A are empty since checklist A is not derived from another checklist. The rating in the metadata of checklist A A is also empty since other users have not downloaded checklist A. The keyword in the metadata of checklist A A is set to tea as tea appears frequently in the contents of checklist A. The checklist application system receives checklist A A and stores it in the data repository . Checklist A A may then be shared to different users of the checklist application instances based on the actions of the users.

Continuing with the example in Bob decides to stop drinking coffee and try loose leaf tea for the first time. Bob performs the action of purchasing loose leaf tea from David s tea online. The checklist application system is listening to Bob s actions. The checklist application system mines transaction records in the data repository based on Bob s purchase of loose leaf tea.

From Bob s purchases recorded in Bob s personal financial management software the checklist application system notes that Bob has not bought tea excluding Bob s recent tea transaction from David s tea online. A search of the checklists in the data repository is performed to identify a checklist for Bob. The keywords in the metadata of the checklists are compared to Bob s tea transaction . Checklist A A has a keyword of tea and is identified as matching Bob s tea transaction . Bob receives an email notification of checklist A A . Bob accepts the download of checklist items 2 and 4 of checklist A A . Bob submits a rating of checklist A A of 3 5. The rating in the metadata of checklist A A is updated to 3 5 as Bob is the first user of checklist A . Checklist B B is a modified version of checklist A A since only checklist items 2 and 4 are downloaded to the checklist application instance on Bob s smartphone . Bob adds checklist items 3 learn types of teas and 4 buy honey. Bob then submits checklist B B in the checklist application instance running on Bob s smartphone . The checklist relationships in the metadata of checklist B B include checklist A A as the parent of checklist B since checklist B is derived from checklist A . The rating in the metadata of checklist B B is empty since checklist B has not been downloaded by other users. The keyword in the metadata of checklist B B is set to tea as tea appears frequently in the contents of checklist B. The checklist application system receives checklist B B and stores it in the data repository . Checklist B B may then be shared to different users of the checklist application instances based on the actions of the users.

In the example illustrated in consider the scenario in which Bob is notified of a subset of checklists based on actions performed by Bob. The checklist application system is listening to Bob s smartphone . The checklist application system first notes Bob s location is further than where Bob travels daily in Austin based on Bob s GPS on Bob s smartphone . The checklist application system then notes that Bob stops to fill gas in Bob s car between Austin and Houston. The checklist application then mines the data repository for Bob s transaction records. Bob s calendar in Bob s personal financial management software has an event for today marked as weekend trip to Galveston. The checklist application system determines that Bob is on the way to Galveston from the combination of Bob s GPS location Bob s gas transaction and Bob s calendar . During the mining of Bob s transaction records in the data repository the checklist application system notes that a few days before leaving for Galveston Bob took out a loan to make a boat purchase. Bob also sent an email to Intuit Inc. inquiring about small business financial software to start a business. The checklist application system then triggers a search of the checklists in the data repository .

Continuing with the example in the checklist application system mines the transaction records in the data repository based on the actions performed by Bob including Bob s GPS location Bob s boat loan Bob s email inquiring small business financial software about starting a business Bob s gas transaction and Bob s calendar . The checklist application system identifies a subset of the checklists in the data repository including checklist C C checklist D D and checklist E E . Checklist C C is identified based on the keywords of fishing boat and Galveston in the metadata of checklist C matching Bob s transaction records including Bob s boat loan Bob s calendar and Bob s gas transaction . Checklist D D is identified based on the keywords of Galveston and business in the metadata of checklist D matching Bob s transaction records including Bob s email inquiring small business financial software about starting a business Bob s calendar and Bob s gas transaction . Checklist E E is identified based on the keywords of Galveston and shopping in the metadata of checklist E matching Bob s calendar and Bob s gas transaction .

Continuing with the example in Bob receives a notification of checklist C C checklist D D and checklist E E on Bob s smartphone as a text message. Bob ignores checklist D D since Bob does not plan to open a small business in Galveston. Bob ignores checklist E E since Bob does not enjoy shopping and touring Galveston. Bob accepts the download of checklist C C since Bob is going to Galveston to try Bob s boat. The checklist application system learns that Bob is not interested in opening a small business in Galveston and updates Bob s user preferences for subsequent checklist searches. The checklist application system learns that Bob has a preference for nature activities over tourist activities such as shopping and updates Bob s user preferences for subsequent checklist searches.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computing system regardless of the platform being used. For example the computing system may be one or more mobile devices e.g. laptop computer smart phone personal digital assistant tablet computer or other mobile device desktop computers servers blades in a server chassis or any other type of computing device or devices that includes at least the minimum processing power memory and input and output device s to perform one or more embodiments of the invention. For example as shown in the computing system may include one or more computer processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. one or more storage device s e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk CD drive or digital versatile disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities. The computer processor s may be an integrated circuit for processing instructions. For example the computer processor s may be one or more cores or micro cores of a processor. The computing system may also include one or more input device s such as a touchscreen keyboard mouse microphone touchpad electronic pen or any other type of input device. Further the computing system may include one or more output device s such as a screen e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display touchscreen cathode ray tube CRT monitor projector or other display device a printer external storage or any other output device. One or more of the output device s may be the same or different from the input device s . The computing system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet mobile network or any other type of network via a network interface connection not shown . The input and output device s may be locally or remotely e.g. via the network connected to the computer processor s memory and storage device s . Many different types of computing systems exist and the aforementioned input and output device s may take other forms.

Software instructions in the form of computer readable program code to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored in whole or in part temporarily or permanently on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a CD DVD storage device a diskette a tape flash memory physical memory or any other computer readable storage medium. Specifically the software instructions may correspond to computer readable program code that when executed by a processor s is configured to perform embodiments of the invention.

Further one or more elements of the aforementioned computing system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network . Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a distinct computing device. Alternatively the node may correspond to a computer processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a computer processor or micro core of a computer processor with shared memory and or resources.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

