---

title: Multi-access gateway for direct to residence communication services
abstract: Different residences can be communicatively linked to a communication backbone via a multi-access gateway, where each residence comprises an adapter through which a set of IP devices directly connect to the multi-access gateway via IPSec compliant communication channels. The multi-access gateway can connect each of the IP devices to remotely located resources. Telecommunication services can be provided to the IP devices in the residences for fees. The multi-access gateway can controls specifics of the telecommunication services, which can include emergency (e.g., 911) services, home control services, and residential administration services. Any of the telecommunication services can be initiated, modified, or terminated by a carrier maintaining the multi-access gateway on a per residence basis for any of the different residences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467481&OS=09467481&RS=09467481
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09467481
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 770 180 filed Apr. 29 2010 by Amar Nath Ray and titled Multi Access Gateway for Direct to Residence Communication Services which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure relates to the field of residential telecommunication services and more particularly to a multi access gateway for direct to residence communication services.

Residential communication services are generally provided in accordance with an end point architecture. In this architecture for each service a last mile line is established between the carrier and the residence in question. Different types of services can require different lines. This has historically the case with different types of broadcasting media e.g. television wireline voice telephony wireless voice telephony Internet services etc. where each type of media was provided by different providers. Each different type media has even been regulated by different agencies and governing laws. Telecommunication convergence has lowered many of these barriers and now multiple different media services can be provided by a common provider over a single external line wired or wireless . In an end point architecture a provider is responsible for connectivity issues to a residence and intra residence communications have been the responsibility of a home owner.

For example broadband internet connections require a user to purchase deploy and maintain a home based gateway such as a router. Each in residence IP device then uses the home router as a gateway. The gateway is connected to a modem which is linked to the provider s gateway. This arrangement often results in home users having difficulty setting up their household devices. This difficulty continues to increase as a number of intra home devices linked to a gateway increases.

Thus as IP devices in the home continue to proliferate architectures dependent upon home routers e.g. end point architectures are expected to increasingly experience problems. For example many residences that receive voice over internet protocol VOIP based services experience degradation of service quality due to use of routers which may fail to provide preferential treatment to voice communications. Video on demand and streaming services similarly suffer from improper router configurations and or from home routers lacking necessary features to provide adequate performance for these services. Problems occurring within the home network downstream from a home router often lead to home user dissatisfaction and frustration with their service provider i.e. internet or VOIP carrier . Further service providers incur significant costs to provide technological support which includes sending agents to homes for resolving issue beyond their control i.e. presently providers are largely not responsible for home routers and or in home architectures networking devices etc. .

One contributing factor of in residence telecommunication problems is due to providers biasing communication lines for downstreaming e.g. receiving content from the provider s network verses upstreaming sending content from the residence to the provider . The available bandwidth for upstreaming is typically a fraction of that for downstreaming. In residence devices and emerging services that require significant upstream bandwidth e.g. VOIP devices in home media servers like SLINGBOX and WINDOWS HOME SERVER WHS devices security cameras etc. can strangle the available upstream bandwidth. Cloud computing services online backup solutions and other emerging technologies also consume significant upstream bandwidth. Problems with these devices or services again lead to decreased user satisfaction with their service provider carrier even through often there is little a service provider can do.

Further complications and residence experienced problems result from use of third party services. That is residences are increasing subscribing to third party services for telecommunications which require communications with in residence devices. These services can be implemented in an extremely inefficient manner and or can consume an inordinate amount of available bandwidth in a non cooperative way which results in an end user experiencing problems. These problems are often not attributed to their proper source especially when experienced by non technical users which results in trouble calls to a telecommunication service provider and or customer dissatisfaction with the service provider carrier.

The above problems are often not ones resulting from inherent capacity or performance limitations of a line from a residence to the service provider the last mile of communications . These problems often result from the home router acting as a bottleneck to the external line and or by communication conflicts including prioritization conflicts occurring among intra residence devices. Problems of this nature are controlled by intra home equipment such as home based gateways.

The disclosure can be implemented in accordance with a variety of aspects and configurations. For instance one aspect of the disclosure is for providing a method computer program system and artifact for providing telecommunication services. In the aspect different residences can be communicatively linked to a communication backbone via a multi access gateway. Each residence can include an adapter through which a set of one or more IP devices directly connect to the multi access gateway via IPSec compliant communication channels. The multi access gateway can perform TCP IP network level routing for the IP devices. The highest TCP IP level communication performed by the adapter is at the link level of the TCP IP stack. The multi access gateway can connect each of the IP devices to remotely located resources which comprise remotely located IP resources which communicate to the IP devices via IP addresses maintained by the multi access gateway. Telecommunication services can be provided to the IP devices in the residences for fees. The multi access gateway can control specifics of the telecommunication services. The telecommunication services can include emergency e.g. 911 services for the IP devices home control services and residential administration services. Any of the telecommunication services can be initiated modified or terminated by a carrier which maintains the multi access gateway on a per residence basis for any of the different residences.

One aspect of the disclosure is for providing a method computer program system and artifact for providing residential telecommunication services. Different internet protocol IP devices within hundreds of different residences can be connected to a multi access gateway through a plurality of in residence adaptors. Each of the in residence adaptors can correspond in a one to one fashion to each of the hundreds of different residences. Each adaptor can be customer premise equipment CPE lacking routing capabilities. The adaptor can be positioned inside the residence or outside the residence e.g. in a locked box only accessible by a service provider and not by the residents . Each of the adaptors can be communicatively linked to a remotely located multi access gateway. The multi access gateway can be part of the middle mile of a communication network. The multi access gateway can provide routing directly to IP addresses of each of the IP devices without any intermediate gateways. TCP IP based communications can be conducted between each of the IP devices and the multi access gateway. The communications can occur through the adapters at the link level of the TCP IP stack where the conducted TCP IP based communications through the adaptor do not occur above the link layer of the TCP IP stack. A carrier controlling the multi access gateway can provide telecommunication services to residential subscribers of the residences for fees. Customizable residence specific settings can be stored for each of the residences in a data store accessible by computing equipment able to control residence specific behavior of the multi access gateway. The customizable residence specific settings can determine details of the telecommunication services as provided to specific ones of the residences. A user interface accessible by client side browsers can be provided. The user interface can permit authorized users to modify at least a portion of the customizable residence specific settings for the one of the residences in which the authorized user resides.

The present disclosure eliminates a need for home based gateways by establishing a multi access gateway at a carrier s location. That is the multi access gateway is not positioned within the last mile but can instead be positioned at the edge of the middle mile in a communication network. This multi access gateway can perform routing functions for tens or hundreds of thousands of in residence devices. Within a residence a single non routing adaptor e.g. a modem can be installed which links the in home devices to the multi access gateway. Converters which include a network transponder able to connect to the adapter can be optionally used to enable non IP devices e.g. POTS phones lacking an internal network transponder to function.

In an embodiment of the disclosure each in residence device can be assigned a unique IP address an IPv6 address for example which the multi access gateway uses when routing communications. Communications between each in residence device and the multi access gateway can be secure communications such as conforming to the IPSec standard. A number of services such as emergency e.g. 911 services home control services residential administration services and the like can be implemented at the multi access gateway for the residences. Use of the multi access gateway is more cost efficient compared to the aggregate costs of providing in residence home gateways. Additionally a service provider carrier is granted increased control of communications all the way to the end user device which permits intelligent and controlled use of available bandwidth of physical communication pathways which includes wirelines and wireless spectrum .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring now to is a diagram of a telecommunications system using a multi access gateway for residential communication services in accordance with a disclosure. System represents an application of telecommunication technologies that utilize network based gateway architecture as opposed to an end point architecture that is commonly today. In system functionality typically implemented within home based gateways such as customer premise equipment CPE routers can be replaced by functionality e.g. routing functionality of the multi access gateway .

Thus the gateway can communicate with a variety of in residence network devices through adaptor using an internet protocol IP addresses . In one embodiment the IP address can be a public static address such as an IPv6 address. In another embodiment the IP address can be a dynamic private address assigned by gateway as needed. IP address can also be a partial IP address in one embodiment which is assigned and able to be uniquely identified by gateway which performs routing functions in system . Regardless of the type of address used the arrangements shown in system can result in a substantial reduction of overall costs as home based gateways e.g. CPE routers are in aggregate more expensive to procure setup and maintain than the gateway yet gateway is able to provide equivalent to superior functionality compared to the aggregated home based gateways. Further gateway permits a carrier to exert more fine grained control over residential services which can result in residential customers being able to receive a greater variety of services at lower costs due to economies of scale. Further service providers can be provided opportunities at larger markets and carriers can be granted new avenues to leverage their assets.

To elaborate in system IP devices in a residence can be connected through an adaptor to a carrier s multi access gateway . Each IP device shown also as device can include a network interface card NIC with a unique Media Access Control MAC address . Further each device can be assigned an IP address static or dynamic public or private depending on implementation choices as well as an optional hardware device identifier . In one embodiment the IP address can be an IPv6 address which permits substantially greater unique addresses than previous standards. In one embodiment the hardware device identifier can be used for hardware mating services so that services lacking the identifier even if they are assigned the correct IP address will not be able to communicate with media access gateway . This optional additional level of security permits tight control of certain ones of the services which may be a requirement of a service provider such as television on demand and or pay per view providers which often are contractually bound to only provide media over highly secure channels which may require hardware mating and or hardware based security schemes. .

Additionally one or more non IP devices can connect to adaptor through a converter where the converter can include a network interface connector NIC MAC address and the like. One or more converters can optionally be built into the adaptor . A residence or even a set of multiple residences in one embodiment only requires a single adaptor although use of additional adaptors for fault tolerance or bandwidth enhancement purposes are contemplated.

Residence is used generically throughout this disclosure to refer to a site in which adapter is positioned. In one embodiment a residence can refer to a unique and independent household which functions as a domicile for a family of one or more people. Different residences are independent of other residences . Despite this independence hundreds to thousands of residences can be served by a single multi access gateway . This situation is to be contrasted with business or entity owned properties which are often served by a company determined infrastructure. The telecommunication services provided to the residences can fall under one or more federal statutes e.g. Telecommunications Act of 1996 . Embodiments of the disclosure are meant to include definitions for residential telecommunication service provided within any federal or state statute for regulatory purposes.

Each device can be communicatively linked to the gateway through IP connection which can be a private channel between device and gateway can be a secure IPv6 connection or can be an IPv4 connection that implements IPSec standards. The connection can have one endpoint NIC at device and the other endpoint at gateway . In one embodiment the connection can comply with IPSec standards. Gateway can use routing component to route communications between device and IP resources Plain old telephone service POTS resources and or other communication resource . The IP resource can be a resource of a public or private IP network. POTS resource can be a resource of POTS network . A communication between gateway and a POTS resource can be circuit based.

Communication resource can be a resource of other network . The other network can include any type of signaling network which can be directed to IP device within an IP based communication. Other services can include services specifically designed to permit access to other resources which a sufficient quantity of residences desire to justify expenditures of providing these resources as a service . Additionally services implemented at the gateway can be linked to the middle mile of the communication network as opposed to the last mile. Thus these services can have substantially greater bandwidth available to them compared to those which travel to the more bandwidth constrained devices over the last mile of the communication network.

This emphasizes that economies of scale achieved through use of the multi access gateway can open new markets for communication services enriching service providers residences and carriers alike. Some of the services besides the other services contemplated in system include emergency e.g. 911 services home control services residential administration services and data services . The emergency services can represent emergency services which can be initiated from any of the IP devices or even from the adaptor itself. Previously configured messages in settings can be triggered as part of emergency services as can automatically providing and confirming address information and the like. The emergency services can be triggered manually by a user action and or automatically by in home conditions determined home based sensors. These home based sensors can be ones utilized by one or more home control services .

Services can interoperate with each other and can optionally share and utilize a common set of residential information maintained in a data store accessible by the gateway . In one embodiment particular datum elements of data store can be protected or kept confidential per residence configurable settings via administration services to ensure residential information is confidentially securely and appropriately maintained. Services include carrier provided services as well as third party services. In one embodiment the carrier may be able to offer residents favorable rates on third party services largely to economies of scales and resulting efficiencies achievable by use of the multi access gateway for implementing residential routing functions.

Diagram shows device can be connected through adaptor through gateway through an optional remote router to resource which can be any of resources . Looking at a TCP IP stack stack for the connections of diagram it can be seen that the device and the resource can each connect through the application transport network e.g. internet and link layers. The adaptor communicates at the link layer or the physical and data Link layers using the OSI model . The gateway and the optional router communicate at the link and network layers. The TCP IP stack layers are shown for convenience and equivalent layers of other communication stack models are to be considered within scope of the disclosure.

Diagram shows that the data link layer of the TCP IP stack is the lowest defined layer which by design is hardware independent. Thus TCP IP can be implemented on top of virtually any hardware networking technology in existence. Consequently any of a variety of different physical network architectures e.g. Ethernet Token Ring hub repeater can be implemented to connect the hardware components of device adaptor gateway router and resource . The processes of transmitting and receiving packets on a given link link layer is able to be controlled by software device drivers for network cards eg. NIC by firmware or by specialized chipsets. Any of these can perform the data link functions such as adding and preparing frames header data and footers and transmitting these frames over a physical medium.

The network layer solves the problem of sending packets across one or more networks. Internetworking requires sending data from the source network to the destination network which is the process of routing. As noted gateway is component connected through adapter to device which performs the routing function e.g. routing which is why diagram shows network layer communications for gateway and not for adaptor .

In the event that two devices which may or may not reside in the same residence are communicating with each other via gateway the optional router shown in diagram can be replaced with adaptor . When communicating devices are in a single residence a single adapter can be used. When devices in different residences communicate then a second adaptor can be utilized. Either way both adaptors will only communicate at the link layer and all routing e.g. routing component will be performed by the gateway . Optimizations can be optionally implemented to expedite communications.

Alternatively and as shown in diagram an in residence device connected to gateway can connect to a network e.g. network resource e.g. resource . This resource can be connected to a router which may be a carrier grade router a business grade router or even a home router. Either way the communication from device will be routed to resource which can respond back using TCP IP standards for example by traversing the network connection pathway shown in diagram in reverse.

The network between device and adaptor is an in residence network which can utilize wireless or wireline communication pathways as is network . Wiring of the network can be adapted for specific home devices such as CPE phones televisions security cameras radios photo frames MP3 players game consoles and the like.

The specific wireless or wireline pathways connecting a device to the adaptor can conform to any of a variety of communication standard including but not limited to BLUETOOTH WIRELESS USB Wi Fi any of the 802.1x family of protocols power line communications e.g. HOMEPLUG ZIGBEE and other mesh network communication technologies Z WAVE POTS phone lines i.e. over Cat 3 wires Ethernet i.e. over Cat 5 or 6 wires USB FIREWIRE ESATA and the like. Traditionally the devices in residence and the communication lines and protocols used by them fall into the category of CPE and CPE based wiring. Typical CPE components such as device can conform to home or business class equipment standards.

Network is a network connecting a residence to a carrier . This type of network can be referred to as a last mile mobile mile or wireless local look in the case of wireless telephony a local loop or a subscriber line. Thus network connects a residence to an edge of a carrier s network. Network can be an Integrated Service Digital Network ISDN30 connection delivered through copper of fibre cable. Additionally Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Broadband over power line BPL and other such technologies can be used for providing the last mile services of network . Communications over network and or network may be conducted within discrete channels which have not been multiplexed with other channels at a content level e.g. simple signal processing techniques can extract each discrete channel and can extract a single discrete channel without having to extract others. .

Network can represent the middle mile connecting the carrier s core network networks to the local network plant the beginning of the last mile where the local loop begins . Network can include the backhaul network. Communications over network will typically be multiplexed at a content level with other communications e.g. complex signal processing techniques may be need to extract a single channel which requires multiple channels be de muxed before a single desired one can be extracted . Network as shown also includes the backbone network e.g. network which ultimately connects to a router which is positioned within a local loop . Network can be the local network between the router and resource . In some embodiments the resource e.g. resource linked to device can be implemented close to the network backbone or close to gateway for improved performance such as performance needed for many popular services .

It should be emphasized that system permits the multi access gateway to control communications between devices in a residence at a configurable level of granularity which provides substantially greater control than available for existing systems. One level of control can exist on a per channel e.g. IPv6 Sec channel basis. These per device channels can be selectively throttled bandwidth limited suspended then reinitiated from the suspended state disabled and the like. For example when an in residence security incident or emergency event is detected non essential channels can be halted to ensure maximum throughput exists for those devices involved in handling the security incident emergency event. Additionally in one embodiment procedures can be implemented within the multi access gateway for security purposes to change the IP addresses of each device in a predefined timely fashion controlled by the multi access gateway and computerized procedures built therein.

In one implementation of system that uses IPv6 communications a certain block of IPv6 addresses can be assigned to each multi access gateway . A computerized system can then assign the addresses in the block to different channels of different ports of the multi access gateway where the ports are connected to various ones of the devices . A database of the gateway can be maintained and upgraded to ensure the ports of the gateway are matched to corresponding ones of the devices . As devices are removed the ports and or IP addresses used can be returned to the block where they can be reassigned by the multi access gateway to new different devices in the future. The size of the block of addresses assigned to the gateway can be increased whenever gateway capacity increases. In one embodiment procedures can be implemented to change IP addresses associated with ports and devices in a predefined timely fashion for purposes of enhancing security.

In one embodiment a software implemented push can be implemented for communications between the devices and the multi access gateway . The push can utilize queuing techniques and prioritization techniques to ensure the most critical information is conveyed between residence and gateway in a timely fashion. Procedures can be implemented for manual as well as automated interruptions of pushes as required. For example a push can be interrupted for a substantial amount of time upon identification of an appropriate emergency event. Additionally functionality to restart resume reinitiate or continue normal operations can be implemented. For example a restart of a push can be controlled automatically following resolution of an emergency condition.

The various IP devices can have active and idle states. In one embodiment an indicator audible visible can be provided on the devices to display to a user a state of the IP device active inactive a connection state active suspended inactive a status of messages delivered queued disabled and the like. In one embodiment the device specific display data can be accessed from a display of the adapter or via a user interface that is provided as part of the residential administration services . A level of details available through a device status display can vary from device to device. Thus some devices can include a basic state connected idle active inactive while others will include more robust indicators. Devices can also include special controls indications for initiating and or receiving notice of emergency situations.

The devices and administration thereof via residential administration services can be tailored for specific users of the residence . For example every member of a family living in residence can have their own password and optional user id for accessing the administration services and associated user interfaces. Different users can have different user privilege levels so that a parent can override settings established by a child for example. User privileges can be used to permit online changing of configuration residential settings for specific operations devices for maintaining privacy of data conveyed during communications or within metadata about communications and the like.

In other words database can be controlled by multiple different users e.g. parents in one example of a residence . The control of residential settings can be performed locally using in residence controls or remotely. A procedure can be implemented for the multi access gateway for giving an audible visible busy indication to other authorized database controllers e.g. users . That is residential settings can be locked during editing or checked in and out to prevent contention issues. The busy or in use signal can provide an administrator with feedback that another is changing residential settings . In one embodiment a super user e.g. main administrator can request messages be sent to him her when any residential settings are changed i.e. the administrator can receive and email message whenever setting changes occur . Access to database information such as residential settings can be interrupted or prevented upon identification of an emergency or high priority event. A priority of an event can be determined by a separate database from database in one embodiment. Also device usage can be halted when residential settings are being changed which may require the device be restarted reconnected or otherwise reset before changes reflected in settings can be implemented.

Previously non available emergency procedures can be implemented for system . For example in one embodiment the adapter can be equipped with an auto dialer for making an emergency call. Upon receiving an indication of an emergency from a user or connected device the adapter can get a dial tone from the gateway or from an alternative line connected to adapter and reserved for emergencies and can dial out 911 or other number to provide emergency services.

In one embodiment system can pre store an address for residence within adaptor device and or data store as well as audio text and video information. A procedure associated with the emergency services can be implemented to feed this stored information during a call or other emergency service invocations. In one embodiment when devices and or adapter include emergency service information which is able to be manually or automatically fed responsive to an emergency call an indication of success or a lack of success for uploading the emergency information can be presented upon the appropriate device and or adapter .

In one embodiment a procedure and or actuator to initiate e.g. dial out 911 or other emergency calls can be placed in any of the home devices . These procedures can include overriding existing usages of the device to display emergency information and or to interact with a user concerning an emergency situation. For example an IP device that is a television can be overridden so that a user is informed of an emergency situation and is prompted with a set of pre configured responses to initiate via a TV remote control unit. In one embodiment a dial out device e.g. a phone or other audio transducer can be connected to any of the devices through an appropriate connection e.g. an USB port for example . In such an embodiment the multi access gateway can provide a dial tone to the appropriate connected home device for dialing out 911 upon indication of an emergency event. For example an internal intercom system can be provided a dial tone and used to dial out during an emergency event in one embodiment.

Further master and slave devices can be defined per residence for emergency services to avoid multiple emergency call outs from within the same household or residence . Alternatively an indicator presented on the devices that indicates an emergency service has been initiated can also help avoid excessive and duplicative call outs during an emergency situation.

In one embodiment an automated report about one or more emergency events can be generated and provided to an account Web page. This report and or information can be shared by all household users. Depending on the severity and type of emergency event a text message or email can also be sent to a master controller s super user mobile phone or other designated receiving devices. Emergency events can be defined as part of the residential settings and or can be defined by the gateway and its administrators. In one embodiment an additional Web site can be used to present residence specific information to responders for an emergency event. The residence information can be gathered from in residence sensors data feeds and the like and provided to responders in real time or near real time.

System can provide any number of different customizable procedures for uploading and otherwise storing emergency location information into one or more of the devices on the premises residence . Standard formats can be used for different emergency messages which include audio content text audio and other media. Versions of this emergency information can be stored on the gateway . Upon receiving an indication of an emergency event the multi access gateway can take appropriate actions. For example the gateway can send a specific set of pre stored messages with location information of the calling party to an emergency responder. The data store containing customer information including settings e.g. name address etc. that is indexed against household connection port can be used. In one embodiment when a port to a residence device is unexpected severed as detected by gateway and emergency action can be automatically initiated by gateway .

The adapter can be intended for residence access physically and placed inside the residence in one embodiment of the disclosure. In another the adapter can be placed on the exterior of the residence and physical access may be restricted to carrier personnel. For example the exterior positioned adapter can be placed inside a locked box which only agents of the carrier possess keys to i.e. residents may lack direct access to the locked box .

The adapter can be linked to the multi access gateway via network . Services can be provide through the gateway as can access to a data store which includes residential settings . In one embodiment one or more communication pathways can exist from adapter to network such as POTS network which do not pass through the gateway . Communication pathway can be used for emergency services and or can be utilized as a communication failsafe or fall back. Communication pathway may be provided by a different carrier than that which provides gateway . Communication pathway may permit circuit based or packet switched communications. Further pathway can use a wireline or wireless medium for communicating data.

Diagram shows that multiple residences are connected via a single network to the gateway . More than one distinct last mile network linked to a different set of residences can be connected to the same gateway as expressed by the last mile network also being connected to gateway . Further one or more residences may connect to the gateway via more than one network. For example network can be an additional last mile network distinct from network which connects one or more residences to the gateway . Use of multiple networks i.e. a WiMAX network and a copper network for example can provide a level of redundancy which may be useful in ensuring residences experience a desired threshold of uptime. It is also a means of increasing bandwidth to one or more residences as well as a means for leveraging different fixed assets available to a carrier . In one embodiment an adapter can support multiple different protocols wireline and wireless connecting a residence to the gateway . A residence receiving services may not even be aware or care which of a set of one or more physical networks and link layer protocols are being used for communications between the gateway and adapter .

Diagram shows a residential network which includes a set of residences served receiving routing functionality from by a common gateway . Since the same gateway controls the routing of communications it can permit assuming permissions are granted by residences as recorded in residential settings a device positioned in one residence e.g. residence A to communicate with a device in another residence e.g. residence B . Communications can be conducted securely such as in compliance with IPSec 156 standards. Thus different family members or friends in the same neighborhood or within the same residential network can utilize each other s devices in accordance with permissions established by the residential settings . Thus a person using a computer in residence A can print a document to a printer located in residence B.

The capability of sharing access to network attached devices over a residential network can be considered a service e.g. other service provided by the carrier . Notably communications between different residences A and B in the same residential network can be substantially equivalent from a technology viewpoint as permitting communications between two devices in the same residence . The routing in both cases is controlled by gateway and is between devices having unique IPv6 Addresses . Any desired level of access control and restrictions to devices managed by gateway can be implemented.

Diagram shows that a person using a mobile device can move about a residential network without losing connectivity. That is internet level settings need not change since the same gateway is being used by the device having a stable IP address regardless of where in the residential network a person is located. It should be noted that physical level and link level handoffs may be required within network as the person moves about. That is different adapters positioned within different residences may be used such as when the communication is Wi Fi 802.11 based and the adapters include a Wi Fi transceiver. Security is not compromised even though different adapters are used as communications between person and gateway can be secured by IPSec 156. In one embodiment geofences can be implemented to limit a person s communication capability within residential network . Similarly an ability to roam within a residential network can be provided as an optional service e.g. other service available to subscribers.

Diagram illustrates that different residential networks A B C can exist in different geospatial positions. Each of the residential networks A B C can be managed by a network specific gateway . These gateways can be interconnected at low levels using open or proprietary technologies and communication pathways. Interconnecting these residential networks A B C permits a creation of a virtual residential network which includes a geographical region covered by an aggregate of multiple residential networks A B C. Any services implemented for or available to a residential network can be implemented for or made available to a virtual residential network. Thus device sharing shown in diagram and roaming shown in diagram can be implemented within a virtual residential area as shown by diagram . Virtual residential networks can be implemented by configuring gateway software firmware without negatively impacting other components of a telecommunications network . In one embodiment communications between gateways can occur at the physical link layer.

Diagram shows IP device gateway and a computing system of a service provider each connected to a service infrastructure . The infrastructure supports the providing of services. In one embodiment infrastructure can conform to an IP Multimedia subsystem IMS framework for delivering IP multimedia services in compliance with architectural specifics defined by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . As such infrastructure can have a horizontal control layer that isolates the access network from the service layer. Thus from a logical architecture perspective services compliant with an IMS framework one embodiment of infrastructure need not have their own control functions as the control layer is a common horizontal layer. In another embodiment the service infrastructure can be a 3GPP Generic Access Network GAN which provides system with an ability to use the Internet to provide the last mile connection for a telephony device.

In one embodiment the infrastructure can conform to standards of a SOA for providing services such as Web services. In such an embodiment the SOA infrastructure provides a loosely integrated suite of services that can be used within multiple business domains. SOA separates functions into distinct units e.g. services which developers make accessible over a network in order to allow users to combine and reuse them in the production of applications. These services and their corresponding consumers communicate with each other by passing data in a well defined shared format or by coordinating an activity between two or more services. In an SOA embodiment a wide range of technologies can be used in the infrastructure including but not limited to Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Remote procedure call RPC Representational State Transfer REST Distributed Component Object Model DCOM The Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Data Distribution Service for Real time Systems DDS Web services Windows Communication Foundation or WCF and or combinations and derivatives thereof.

In one embodiment the infrastructure can be an Intelligent Network IN infrastructure. In an IN embodiment services can execute at the service layer which is distinct from the switching layer of the core network. Services implemented in an IN framework can conform to the Signaling System 7 SS7 protocol. An IN infrastructure an embodiment of infrastructure as used herein includes IN derivatives and extensions such as an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN Customised Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic CAMEL Next Generation Intelligent Network NGIN and the like.

Regardless of specifics the service infrastructure can include numerous components such as a service bus usage meters performance monitors performance adjusters and the like which facilitate the use monitoring and monetization of services . Further in one embodiment the service infrastructure can support and enforce service level agreements SLA for services . Each SLA can be a service contract where a level of service is formally defined. Infrastructure can be an adaptive one which ensures SLA contracts are upheld by providing priority handling of services . SLA may specify the levels of availability serviceability performance operation or other attributes of the service such as billing.

As noted from the various embodiments of infrastructure services can take many different forms. They can include IN services SOA services IMS services Web services and the like. Further services can be provided by a carrier and or by an independent service provider . Services can be implemented at the gateway which may involve use of plug ins and communications across APIs . Thus services can establish modify interoperate with and extend applications running on gateway .

Services can also be designed for specific IP devices and can therefore establish modify interoperate with and extend client side applications . Device applications can also use plug ins APIs and the like. Further services can execute in network attached servers operating independently of and remote from device and or gateway .

The various computing devices resource gateway service provider devices network components and the like can include hardware and computer program products as shown by device . Device can represent general purpose machines e.g. running a general purpose operating system OS having functionality determined largely by applications and modules running on top of the OS as well as special purposed machines e.g. having custom hardware electronic circuits firmware and software tailored for a specialized purpose which may be designed to prevent significant post sale modifications . The computing devices can include distributed devices formed from a plurality of discrete machines which may be geographically separated from one another yet which function as a single device. A distributed device can have optionally implement fault tolerance fail over and load balancing technologies. Additionally the computing device can include a virtual device created using virtualization technologies which emulates a physical device within a layer of abstraction functioning above a hardware layer. As such multiple virtual devices can be formed from a single physical device or from a set of M physical devices to N virtual devices .

The hardware can include a processor non volatile memory volatile memory network transceiver input output I O peripherals and or the like. The components can be connected to each other via bus .

Computer program products can include software firmware and combinations thereof. The computer program products can be stored in a tangible storage medium e.g. memory and can be executed on the hardware e.g. instructions of the products can execute within the processor . The computer program products can include boot firmware an operating system a set of applications zero or more modules an optional user interface and combinations thereof. In some device embodiments functionality of the firmware operating system applications and or module can be joined into a single unit which may be implemented in hardware or firmware.

The devices of responders can include telephony devices computers and any other configured resource designed to inform emergency response agencies of a situation. The emergency response agencies can include public agencies police fire hospital agencies etc. as well as private ones e.g. security company a home maintenance service notify one or more proximate neighbor s inform a remotely located home owner etc. . Different agencies can be notified of different emergency situations and multiple different agencies can be informed of a single emergency event. Designation of the agencies and emergency events can be configured by an authorized resident such as through user interface in one embodiment of the disclosure.

Emergency events can be manually triggered by a device user and or can be automatically triggered by a detected or sensed situation such as a smoke detector or security alarm within a residence each of which can be in residence devices being activated . In one embodiment some automatically triggered emergency actions can concurrently initiate a designated resident to be notified. In one embodiment this notification can occur a fixed period before emergency service agencies are contacted so that the designated resident can explicitly authorize or refute an emergency service action. In such a situation if a designated resident fails to respond within a designed time period the emergency response action can be automatically initiated.

In one embodiment an emergency response agency can be automatically provided with in residence information e.g. a camera feed a status of in residence sensors etc. whenever an emergency response communication is sent to that agency . A previously established address of the residence from which the emergency service communication was placed can be part of provided in residence information. This address can be based on the adapter location the device location e.g. especially for GPS equipped devices or a combination thereof. Providing the in residence information can minimize an amount of time potentially distressed residents spend on an emergency response communication and can substantially aid responders in taking appropriate and timely actions which represents a win win situation for both residents and responders.

In one embodiment indicated by diagram the in residence device can connect through the adapter over network to gateway . Gateway can enable the emergency services which provides a connection to emergency response agency devices .

In one embodiment indicated by diagram the adapter can be linked to multiple networks one connected to the gateway the other connecting directly to an emergency response agency device . This permits emergency response calls to be made directly from the adapter even when connectively to network is compromised. This arrangement of diagram can also negate traditional location problems with making 911 calls from IP devices as the alternate communication can be via a traditional mechanism such as a land telephony line. This is not an imposed limitation of communication which can include a wireless telephony service perhaps conducted via an in residence device like a cell phone liked to adapter and other alternative communication lines. When an alternative communication line is used in residence information can still be provided by the gateway to one or more agencies such as over a public or private IP network. In one embodiment 911 calls can be placed directly from the adapter or from any IP device connected to the adapter either situation resulting in line being used during the emergency service communication.

As previously noted emergency service can be highly configurable by a designated resident having administrative privileges. Residence specific settings can be stored in a data store accessible by the multi access gateway . In one embodiment a Web server can provide a Web page or other user interface which an authorized user can utilize to modify the residential settings . For example the interface can permit a user to designate a set of emergency response agencies e.g. agencies as well as a set of conditions under which specific response agencies will be contacted. Further actions to be taken in response to an emergency situation satisfying the conditions can be customized via interface . Additionally one or more customized messages which can include audio text or other content can be established which are to be automatically conveyed upon an occurrence of a related emergency situation.

For example in a health related emergency the text can include to a responder medical facts about residents such as blood type health conditions drug allergies current prescription medications etc. In another example in a police situation the actions can authorize police to receive presence information such as user location as determined by GPS components of a mobile device or scheduled locations from calendaring programs related to the residents of the residence which would be otherwise unavailable to the police . In another example in a fire situation the message can selectively provide response personnel with residence layouts access codes and other such information.

Information established via interface can be stored in appropriate tables . In one embodiment some of the information in tables can be established by a carrier or a provider of an emergency service and may not be modifiable by a resident.

As indicated in table physical locations of adaptors can be maintained which provides a reliable means for locating where an emergency response service was initiated. In one embodiment this information can be supplemented by GPS information of in residence devices where adapter can optionally include a GPS component and may be stored in a memory of adapter and or in data store .

As indicated in table residence specific information can be maintained. For each residence a set of conditions actions messages and the like can be maintained which are utilized when an emergency service is activated.

In one embodiment the user interface for services can be provided within a Web browser of a client device where the interface includes a Web page served by a Web server . This server can access residence specific settings and can even permit a designated resident to modify the settings . A home control interface can aggregate different services provided by different providers each of which can include a link to the relevant content. For example a device control section can permit a user to view in residence devices by room . Settings per device can then be adjusted via interface controls .

Various specialized sections can exist within the interface for specific types of in residence devices. For example a video section can permit viewing of video captured by in residence cameras each of which can be an IP device or connected to one . Thus a user can view any room of a residence via a browser and use controls to control the in residence devices . A level of control and the number of home control services for each residence is arbitrary and can be tailored to suit market and residence needs.

The residential settings for home control services can include any of a variety of data elements a few of which are expressed by tables and . Table shows a set of in residence devices and their current settings . Table shows a set of different residences conditions related to home control devices that are enabled and actions to be taken upon the satisfaction of these conditions .

It should be appreciated that the configurations interfaces and services expressed in are presented to illustrate concepts expressed herein and are not to be construed as a limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

In one embodiment the residential administration services can provide a mechanism for residents carrier administrators service providers and other authorized persons to modify residence specific settings and other details of the services . As such user interfaces represent two contemplated interfaces that are provided as part of the residential administration services . In one embodiment services permit a resident to subscribe to new services to modify behavior of existing services and or to cancel services received. These services can include Web services IMS services and or IN services provided by the carrier and by any of a variety of third party providers .

The data services can take advantage of the preferred positioning of the gateway compared to the IP devices relative to a communication backbone. As such a data storage space positioned at the gateway or within a network close to the communication backbone and having significant bandwidth relative to network can assist in reducing traffic over the last mile of the communication backbone. This can be advantageous to the carrier who receives efficiencies by minimizing last mile traffic and the residents who experience increased performance a reduction of latencies and the like. Data services can be provided by carrier and by service providers for a fee. Data services can include AMAZON S S3 service data backup services cloud based storage drives and the like. Customizable cloud based application services not shown can also be integrated with the data services in one contemplated embodiment.

Other services can be designed to take advantage of the positioning of the multi access gateway and the quantity of residences and devices accessible via the gateway . There is virtually no limit on the types and configuration of these services which represent an emerging new market.

In one illustration the other services can include a baby monitoring service. This assumes a microphone and or camera is positioned within a room of a residence proximate to a baby. These devices camera microphone can be connected directly to the gateway as can output devices such as a television a computer a speaker cell phone etc. Sound video from the devices in the baby s room can be directed to any of the output devices as determined by the routing functionality of the gateway . The output devices need not be in the same physical location as the residence . For example a mother visiting a neighbor can receive baby monitoring output via a mobile phone or even through an IP device located in the neighbor s home assuming it is also linked to gateway . Additionally programmatic services which trigger alerts when a baby is crying leaving a room falling from a crib etc. can be implemented by service providers to enhance a basic baby monitoring service other service . As can be seen any type of service can be implemented which takes advantage of multiple residences and devices being linked to the multi access gateway .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

