---

title: Device-driven intelligence and feedback for performance optimization and planning of a service network
abstract: A subscriber device reports network operation conditions, such as network performance incidents, to receive feedback from the network related to the incident and available or possibly available solutions, and to produce network intelligence suitable for network planning and network performance enhancement. Reporting of network performance incidents can be characterized by location and time of occurrence, wherein this intelligence is provided by the user device. Feedback provided by the network is based on the network performance data received as part of reporting an incident. The reporting described herein enables a network operator to generate network planning intelligence based on actual network performance as experienced at the subscriber level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549029&OS=09549029&RS=09549029
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09549029
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140707
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 775 384 entitled DEVICE DRIVEN INTELLIGENCE AND FEEDBACK FOR PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION AND PLANNING OF A SERVICE NETWORK filed May 6 2010 the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to enabling a user device to supply network operation data based on specific network performance conditions and to allow a network that serves the user device to deliver feedback associated with the supplied network operation data and to plan network deployment and to enhance network performance.

Service and related customer support significantly affect subscriber attrition. Conventionally wireless service providers provide various conduits for a subscriber to request support and to report network operation incidents. Subscriber reported problems related to network performance are a vital source of feedback to a network operator or service provider as certain subscriber reported problems are visible only to the subscriber such as when the subscriber attempts to utilize a user mobile device in an area where the network operator does not provides coverage. Such scenario can arise for example in areas in which the network operator has a license to a portion of electromagnetic radiation spectrum but does not provide indoor coverage to a specific building deployed in an operating area for the license.

Nevertheless regardless of the various conduits quality of the response of the service provider to a network performance incident is dictated primarily by a limited number of resources generally available for support services in the network the number of resources is directly related to the number of employees the wireless service provider has in staff or has contracted. In addition in conventional systems resolution of network performance incidents that are submitted via the various typical conduits available to a subscriber involves recreating the network performance incident by dispatching technician s to a location at which the incident has occurred. Accordingly customer service becomes costly and is based on rather limited input with respect to information necessary for expeditious and robust resolution of network operation issue s that caused the network performance incidents.

Several aspects of the subject disclosure are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are employed to refer to like elements throughout. In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface node layer tier and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As still yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to illustrative aspects of a component the illustrated aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface node layer and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB or home access point HAP which include femtocell access point picocell access point Wi Fi base station etc. and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that context in the subject specification generally distinguishes among a base station that provides or is intended to provide primarily outdoor wireless coverage and a and a facility based e.g. home access point e.g. femtocell AP that provides or is intended to provide primarily indoor wireless coverage within a confined range. Explicit distinction between indoor serving AP and outdoor serving base station is made when context may be insufficient to distinguish the utilized terms.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer prosumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth. As utilized herein the term prosumer indicate the following contractions professional consumer and producer consumer.

Features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request to a particular functional element e.g. a mobile device a femtocell AP a network node in order to execute one or more specific operation. Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a lightweight file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various communication protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

The term intelligence as utilized herein with respect to a network refers to substantially any or any information that characterizes a wireless network or non mobile network such for example coverage area s operation marketplace s subscriber information service offerings and associated promotional and advertising campaigns commercial e.g. sales earnings operational margins costs and non commercial community outreach philanthropy . . . activities involving offered services or products or the like. In connection with terminology employed to identify networks mobile or otherwise an owned network or the like refers to the network that manages one or more components that perform the various functionalities described in the subject specification a competing network non owned network or the like refers to one or more networks that share a market with the owned network.

The subject disclosure provides system s device s and method s to enable a subscriber device to report network operation conditions such as network performance incidents and to receive feedback from the network related to the incident and available or possibly available solutions. Reporting of network performance incidents can be characterized by location and time of occurrence wherein this intelligence is provided by the user device. Feedback provided by the network is based on the network performance data received as part of reporting an incident. The reporting described herein enables a network operator to generate intelligence for network planning and for network performance improvement or optimization based on actual network performance as experienced at the subscriber level. Thus allocation of resources for network optimization and development is based on objective data rather than mainly on simulations or management subjective input or perspective.

One of the various advantages of the subject disclosure is that pushing or shifting collection of network performance data to subscribers of a network operator allows the network operator to access network performance more broadly and with higher detail than through conventional approaches. Since the subscribers that report an incident are experiencing the network issue the subscribers can report the specifics of time location details of incident related events and environment of the incident that are difficult if not impossible to reproduce by a network engineer dispatched to the location to respond to the reported network performance incident.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

It is noted that while various aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation are illustrated through Wi Fi access point s and associated Wi Fi coverage such aspects and features also can be exploited in confined coverage base stations e.g. home based access point s enterprise based access point s that provide wireless coverage through most any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example femto cell telecommunication or pico cell telecommunication.

Referring to the drawings illustrates an example system that enables and exploits reporting of network performance incidents in accordance with aspects described herein. In the subject example system a set of one or more device s can report or provide at least one network performance incident or network problem to a network platform operated by a service operator. The at least one network performance incident is specific to the service provided by the network. In a telecommunication network the at least one network performance incident can be at least one of a dropped or lost call no coverage voice quality issues etc. In a wireline network such as a digital cable service the at least one network performance incident can include poor image quality unavailability of programming guide authentication fail instance s for pay per view programming or the like. The set of one or more device s includes at least one of a mobile device or a wireline device e.g. customer premise equipment such as DVR femtocell access point Wi Fi access point digital television or the like . A mobile device can be user equipment or any device enabled for wireless communication such as a cellular telephone a portable computer e.g. netbooks or laptops personal digital assistants PDAs a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a portable radio tuner satellite signal based or conventional a portable gaming box or the like. A wireline device can be one of a wireline telephone a tethered personal computer a set top box a television TV set a stereo music player a tethered radio tuner a tethered gaming box e.g. set top box a digital video recorder DVR or the like.

Reporting of a network performance incident can be accomplished through delivery of a report that includes information that specifies the network performance incident also referred to as incident and at least one of a location R associated with the incident and a time stamp assigned to the incident. An incident report component functionally coupled to a display interface enable at least in part generation and delivery of report . Incident report component can receive data from display interface to specify at least in part the report. In an aspect display interface can render various user interfaces that enable collection of input data from an operator of the device that includes incident report component and generates report . In addition in an aspect of the subject disclosure incident report component can acquire e.g. receive or retrieve request s for data from display interface where the incident report component delivers such request s to feedback system to retrieve or otherwise access the requested data display interface can render various user interfaces that enable generating such request s and conveying the request s to incident network component . Moreover in another aspect incident network component can generate and deliver requests for data associated with network service s e.g. location based service alerting services . . . to feedback system and convey data so acquired to display interface . Furthermore in yet other aspects incident report component can receive instructions to effect specific actions such as conduct a diagnostic cycle test or scan a wireless environment in the neighborhood of the device that includes incident report component . After completion of such actions incident report component can deliver the data collected in response to the received instruction to feedback system . Several of such aspects will be described in greater detail hereinafter.

In an aspect the location conveys at least two coordinates e.g. latitude longitude which can be generated at the device via incident report component through data originated in global navigation satellite system GNNS such as global positioning system GPS assisted global positioning system AGPS Galileo or GLONNAS Global naya Navigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema or Global Navigation Satellite System or data acquired from network platform or a network node that provides location based services and is functionally coupled to network platform . In addition in certain embodiments R also can convey one or more of altitude course horizontal accuracy or vertical accuracy. The report and associated payload is delivered to the network platform through access network s which can be specific to the service for which the network performance incident is reported. In an aspect the report is delivered as a data message generated by incident report component however other messaging communications such as SMS or MMS also can deliver report . For macro cellular wireless service access network s include a radio access network RAN that enables delivery of report whereas for femtocell wireless service access network s can include at least one DSL access multiplexer DSLAM and at least one broadband remote access server B RAS .

In response to receiving report network platform provides feedback data also referred to as feedback . The delivery of feedback can be automatic e.g. without human intervention . To at least that end network platform supplies the report and related information to feedback system which produces feedback . In an aspect gateway gty node s can acquire e.g. receive or retrieve the report and convey it to middleware component which can relay the report to feedback system . Middleware component allows functional coupling to and utilization of systems external to network platform or legacy systems.

Feedback system can process network operation data conveyed in reports from various devices and related locations and time stamps and generate feedback information e.g. feedback data suitable for a device reporting a network performance incident. In an aspect analysis component can correlate all or substantially all available data related to network performance incidents from a plurality of customers in a specific area e.g. metropolitan market and can access disparate network systems to establish if the reported network performance incident is new or recurring. As an example the network systems can comprise operation layer s or external layer s . Operation layer s can include one or more of operation and maintenance O M layers network planning layer s marketing layer s business layer s whereas external layer s can include vendor layer s contractor layer s regulation layer s or the like. For example regulation layer s can indicate when additional spectrum is available for purchase or free of charge utilization. Based on the correlation assessment analysis component can associate available network planning information to one or more categories of network performance incidents and convey such association to feedback component which can provide e.g. generate and deliver feedback data . As an example the one or more categories can include lost or dropped call session failed call session attempt absence of coverage data failure poor voice quality e.g. excessive jitter or noise interference or the like. Feedback data can be received by gateway node s in network platform and the gateway node s can relay the feedback data to the device that delivered network performance incident report .

In an aspect of the subject disclosure feedback can be delivered to a device in a form of network news in response to delivery of report via at least in part incident report component . Accordingly every submission of report can have a feedback response from the network operator. Feedback system can deliver the feedback response feedback through various messaging mechanisms. In an aspect the feedback response can be a short message service SMS communication or a multimedia messaging service MMS communication. In another aspect the feedback response can be a data message incorporated in the incident report component in the device utilized to report the network performance incident. In an embodiment the incident report component can be a software or firmware application retained as one or more sets of code instructions in a memory within the device utilized to report the network performance incident or in a memory functionally coupled to such device. In such embodiment feedback system can convey the feedback response e.g. feedback to the device which can render the data message as part of execution of the software or firmware application that embodies the incident report component .

Feedback can include a message SMS MMS or other data message that acknowledges reception of report . In addition or in the alternative feedback can supply through various messaging mechanisms specific information related to existing network development plans which can be accessed by feedback component through memory or via operation layer s or external layer s . Content of the information can be tailored to a subscriber in response to additional data included as part of report or data supplied as part of a subscriber feedback mechanism enabled through incident report component . In an embodiment such messaging can be provided initially free of charge to subscriber the own or lease a device that includes incident report component . Analysis component can track perceived benefit of allowing messaging for those subscribers and based on assessment of the perceived benefit a network operator that provides service to device s can incentivize those subscribers to purchase a recurring network messaging service.

In an embodiment e.g. illustrated in a report component in feedback component can deliver feedback . In an aspect report component can format the payload data in feedback and can format data that is received as part of network performance incident report . In alternative or additional embodiments feedback component also can include an interactive feedback component not shown that can provision at least in part an interface to receive or exchange feedback interactively amongst a device in the set of one or more devices and feedback system .

As indicated supra information in messages can respond to simple inquiries posed by a subscriber through a device that includes incident report component . However feedback system can provide a feedback response through messaging without receiving an inquiry from the device. For example for network development plans that include deployment of a base station within a predetermined period e.g. 60 days feedback component can deliver a SMS communication or MMS communication to a group of devices that have reported incidents in the area in which the base station is planned to be deployed. Feedback system via analysis component can determine the area to examine for submitted reports based at least on a circle with radius equal or nearly equal to the minimum of a the distance to a neighboring base station or the maximum or b the maximum typical distance of intended coverage of the base station for a particular morphology. Analysis component can process data on previously submitted reports e.g. analysis component can filter out duplicate problems per customer. In addition analysis component can review reports submitted within a predetermined period of time e.g. 60 days. In an aspect the group of devices that receive a message should continue to experience difficulties at the time of message delivery to increase perceived benefit of messaging.

In embodiment query component can manage receive format convey etc. any or most any received inquiry from a device or from a network node element which can be part of operation layer s or external layer s . Subscription manager component also referred to as subscription manager can administer e.g. create update suspend terminate subscription related to feedback particularly though not exclusively in connection with network news or alerts.

Feedback system can provide feedback in accordance at least in part with the network performance incident that is reported. In an aspect for an incident related to a problem noted in a certain area where the problem is associated with a cell site with an operation issue the feedback in the form of news for example can be rendered as an alert in the device that delivers the report e.g. report for the incident and that includes incident report component . For instance the alert can include a message that discloses information that characterizes a course of action aimed to resolution of issues related to the network performance incident that is reported as an illustration the message can be technical difficulties have been noted in the area and a solution is expected within the next 24 hrs . In another aspect for network performance incidents reported in an area and related to capacity feedback system can search for available capacity augmentation plans in a database of the service provider feedback system exploits one or more plans so identified and provides e.g. issues and delivers network news as to when capacity additions will be deployed. If the problem reported in an area is related to coverage and the network operator has coverage improvement plans then feedback related to the coverage improvement plans can be provided. If the problem reported is related to performance that is not coverage or capacity and the network operator has performance improvement plans in place the subject disclosure enables the network operator to convey those plans and ETA via at least network news. If the problem lacks specific known plans for development s that can resolve the problem then the network operator has the ability to create a ticket and can inform the customer that a ticket has been created and supply related ticket information in an aspect the network operator can created the ticket or service ticket via for example feedback system .

In another aspect of the subject innovation feedback can be supplied to a device within the set of device s as part of an alerting service to which the device can subscribe. The alerting service can provide network development information related to specific area s such information can include planned deployments of base stations addition Subscription to the alerting service can be allowed at a time the device delivers an initial network performance incident report or at a time the device deploys e.g. installs builds and activates the incident report component . To deliver information or content as part of the alerting service in one embodiment server s can include at least one application server that can extract network alerts or news from a memory or memory element e.g. a database in response to a query from a device that subscribes to the alerting service. The query can be received and processed by the at least one application server in server s . In the alternative a database manager component not shown which can be part of feedback component can receive and process the query. A server or node that is part of operation layer s e.g. network and marketing layer can provide content to the memory or the memory element.

Server s can include at least one or more processors not shown configured to enable or that enable at least in part the functionality of feedback system and components therein. To that end at least the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of code instructions not shown stored in memory or other computer readable storage medium for example. In an aspect the one or more set of code instructions when executed by the at least one or more processors not shown in server s can carry out one or more of the example methods disclosed herein such code instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to enact such example methods and enable at least a portion of the functionality of feedback system described herein. Server s also can include an input output I O interface that enables communication with an external networked apparatus a device a server a memory etc. . Server s can exchange data and signaling code instructions directives and forth with one or more of analysis component feedback component or memory via bus . In addition analysis component feedback component memory or any combination thereof also can exchange data and signaling code instructions directives etc. through bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

To enable wireless communication and transmit and receive data and signaling wirelessly device includes a communication platform which comprises a set of receiver s transmitter s each transceiver in the set includes an antenna with 1 2 . . . K where K is a natural number greater or equal than unity. One or more of receiver s transmitter s can be configured e.g. by a base station or component s therein to operate in various telecommunication modes multiple input multiple output MIMO mode multiple input single output MISO mode single input single output SIMO mode or single input single output SISO mode. Receiver s transmitter s include respective filter s and amplifiers. The filters are installed between antenna s and the amplifier s and tune specific portions of electromagnetic EM radiation spectrum available for telecommunications.

Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of wireless signal s received by device and wireless signal s to be transmitted by device the wireless signal s modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols. Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include the set of K receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multi mode chipset s . As indicated above the transceivers includes receiver s transmitter s that can convert signal from analog to digital upon reception and from digital to analog upon transmission. Receiver s transmitter s also can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that enables processing or manipulation of wireless signal s in time and frequency space or domain. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex and demultiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component also is a part of communication platform and can modulate and demodulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In addition processor s enables at least in part device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for telecommunication through one or more receivers s transmitter s . When communication platform exploits MIMO MISO SIMO modes of operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coding in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. To decode received information e.g. data or control signaling coder decoder can effect at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

A network operator can configure as part of provisioning of device a set of electromagnetic EM radiation frequency bands and a set of radio technologies that communication platform and components therein can exploit for wireless communication. The set of EM radiation frequency bands also referred to herein as frequency bands can comprise radio frequency RF portion s and microwave portion s of the EM spectrum although other spectral regions such as infrared IR also can be included. In an aspect the set of EM radiation frequency bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all EM frequency bands licensed by the network operator e.g. PCS bands AWS bands GWCS bands and so forth or ii all or substantially all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band or one or more of the Unlicensed National Information Infra structure UNIT bands in the 5 GHz range . It is noted that as part of network upgrades the network operator can add frequency bands or frequency carriers therein to the set of EM radiation frequency bands as such bands or carriers become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. Similarly as new radio technologies become standardized or available the network operator can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication by device .

Additionally in embodiment multimode chipset s can allow device to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. second generation 2G third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when K 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval. In yet another aspect multi mode chipset s enable communication platform to receive global navigation satellite system GNNS pilot signals e.g. timing message s orbit information . . . from one or more deployed global navigation satellite systems GNNSs as indicated supra.

In an aspect display interface can receive one or more directives to render an environment e.g. display one or more user interfaces to report a network performance incident and provide data associated therewith as described supra. In addition display interface can receive and process e.g. decode encode format or deliver data from a subscriber via one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion . In response to rendering the environment to report the network performance incident the display interface can receive and process data that specifies a type of network performance incident or a location of the network performance incident a data entry interface not shown and associated circuitry within display interface can manipulate e.g. process a portion of such data e.g. selection or actuation of a soft button or other user device interaction s into data that can be exploited to report the network performance incident. Display interface can deliver the data either raw or processed to memory to be retained in memory element or data cache . Display interface also can deliver the data to one or more components within device for further processing or delivery to a network platform e.g. .

Further to enabling wireless communication of voice or data device can provide a specific functionality for instance device can be a mobile phone a photography camera a video camera a wireless dedicated computer such as a device in an industrial environment a navigation device a printer or photocopier a scanner a fax machine a television set a digital picture frame or the like. Such specific functionality can be supplied primarily through a functional platform that comprises a set of components not shown that enable at least in part one or more specific functionalities that can complement or supplement wireless communication. It should be appreciated that functional platform can exploit an application either a software application or a firmware application retained in application storage in order to provide one or more functionalities of device the application is retained as one or more sets of code instructions. As an example in an aspect of the subject innovation application storage can include an application that when executed can provide tutorial s for operation of device . As another example when device is a telephone functional platform can include functional elements such as a data entry interface e.g. a touch screen a keyboard a biometric pad for biometric based access a microphone a loud speaker a camera peripheral connectors e.g. a universal serial bus USB port or an IEEE 1394 port for transferring data to or exchanging data with a disparate device a voice coder decoder which can be part of coder decoder intelligent component s that can respond to voice activated command s and so on.

Device also includes various components that enable functionality related to delivery of network performance reports e.g. report . In an aspect device can acquire e.g. receive and detect satellite based data through a communication platform and can produce via location component a location estimate of a current location of device . In addition device can perform time of flight TOF measurements via communication platform a location component and one or more clock layers . Timer s employed as part of TOF measurements can be enabled by clock layer s . In certain embodiments clock layer s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that enable such timer s . In one or more embodiments location component can include components such as an accelerometer an altimeter that can provide additional positional data for the device for instance location component can provide altitude of the device or heading.

In another aspect device includes a collection component that can acquire receive retrieve etc. data related with an incident report from display interface or data entry interface s therein and supply such data to feedback system via at least in part communication platform . Collection component also can acquire data e.g. from display interface related to requests for service s related to reporting of network performance incidents and deliver such data to feedback system . As example collection component can receive from display interface a request for subscription to a network news or alert service and deliver the request to feedback system . As another example collection component can receive a request for data related to location based services available to network platform in particular though not exclusively location component can convey to collection component a request for a location estimate of ground truth for device and collection component can relay such request to network platform which can access the requested data via feedback system or directly from a network node that provides location based services.

In another aspect in response to reporting a network performance incident scanner component can measure pilot signal s within the wireless environment in which device is located and operates. Such functionality is particularly advantageous in cases the network performance incident is reported for indoor operation since currently available methods to monitor e.g. measure indoor radio channel quality or signal strength within building or residences are limited or impractical. As part of delivery of a network performance report e.g. report device can prompt a customer that owns or leases device to disclose whether the report is being submitted indoor outdoor or in transit e.g. traveling . In response to input data associated with such disclosure collection component can correlate current location with location received as part of the input data e.g. indoor outdoor or in transit and can determine the signal strength indoors. For example signal strength or radio channel quality inside the customer home can be assessed if the location corresponds to the customer s home address which is available to the network operator through billing system s which can be part of operation layer s . The data collected through the scan can be conveyed to the network operator which can utilize the data to calibrate signal strength indoors for the customer that owns or leases the device. In an aspect scanner component conveys the collected data to communication platform which can deliver the collected data to a network platform e.g. via an access network e.g. .

At least one advantage of indoor signal strength assessment as described hereinbefore is that signal propagation tools that acquire signal strengths outside of a residence or facility can be calibrated and thus the network operator can better model or quantify characteristics of in building propagation loss. In addition the network operator can generate or update per subscriber model s of attrition vulnerability originated in poor signal quality indoor in an aspect analysis component can generate or update such model s .

Scanner component also can enable auto troubleshooting features. To at least that end scanner component can monitor operation of device and execute diagnostic cycle s or diagnostic test run s that can allow optimization of performance of device . In an aspect execution of the diagnostic cycle s conducts one or more data tests directed to assess or characterize one or more of latency e.g. roundtrip latency of a data packet or data rate or speed . In another aspect such diagnostic cycle s can be performed in response to specific network performance incidents such as data failure. Data collected as part of the diagnostic cycle s can be delivered to the network operator instead of rendered in device . For example peak upload and peak download speeds or data rates can be recorded in a diagnostic table database in memory . Additionally in certain embodiments for a subscriber in a specific segment of subscribers e.g. employees of network operator a predetermined code associated with the subscriber can be received in the device and as a result the device validate the predetermined code and if valid the device can modify behavior of or add functionality to diagnostic test run s the modified behavior or added functionality is said to be unlocked by the predetermined code. Part of the modified behavior or added functionality can enable the device to render the results of the diagnostic test run s . In an aspect throughput speed or data rate and peak speed or peak data rate can be rendered via display interface if device receives and validates the predetermined code. In addition as part of the modified behavior or added functionality scanner component can implement loop diagnostic test s that can probe performance of device in cycles until the device receives an indication to terminate the loop diagnostic test s . The modified behavior or added functionality remains unlocked during the time interval that device renders and environment to report a network performance incident. After the device ceases to render the environment the modified behavior or added functionality of diagnostic cycles is to be unlocked if desired.

In an example scenario related to diagnostic cycle s if a customer that owns or leases device submits a data problem on a first radio technology e.g. 3GPP UMTS scanner component can perform a diagnostic cycle e.g. an auto checking loop and detect that a second radio technology 3GPP LTE Wi Fi femtocell picocell etc. is operating adequately. Adequate operation can be determined through comparison of a key performance indicator KPI or performance metric and a related predetermined threshold KPI or performance metric above the predetermined threshold indicates adequate operation. As a result of the diagnostic cycle and identification of second technology as adequate scanner component can deliver an indication to render a message that advises a specific action to be performed by the customer that owns or leases device . Display interface can receive the indication and render the message. As an example the message can suggest the customer to switch to the second radio technology in particular though not exclusively the message can suggest considering connecting to an open Wi Fi AP or hotspots in proximity of the device . It should be noted that as part of the diagnostic cycle scanner component can check the at least one Wi Fi AP for adequate operation prior to issuing such a message. In addition or in the alternative in response to the diagnostic cycle and related findings scanner component can switch to the second radio technology without customer intervention e.g. automatically e.g. scanner component can signal reconfiguration of multimode chipset s in order to operated in the second radio technology that has been identified as operating adequately.

In the absence of wireless service a report e.g. of a network performance incident can be queued for delivery after the wireless service resumes. In the illustrated embodiment collection component can acquire wireless coverage condition and queue a submission of a report of a network performance incident if the wireless coverage condition reveals wireless service is unavailable. To acquire wireless coverage condition collection component can poll a memory register that contains service status when e.g. at the time an indication to submit a report is received from display interface the memory register can be part of system storage in memory . In case the wireless coverage condition indicates that service is unavailable collection component can continue to poll the memory register either periodically or according to a predetermined schedule collection component delivers the report via communication platform for example if the polling extracts a wireless coverage condition that reveals wireless service has become available.

Display interface can embody display interface and can render visual or aural indicia that control functionality of device as supplied through functional platform or reveal operational conditions of device for example battery level radio technology employed for communication or the like. In addition display interface can render various graphical user interfaces that enable data input associated with reporting a network performance incident in particular though not exclusively display interface can render at least the example user interfaces described in the subject disclosure e.g. .

Device includes processor s configured to enable or that enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component s or platform s interface s and so forth within device in accordance with one or more aspects of the subject disclosure. In example embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s of device however in additional or alternative embodiments processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such various functional elements. Processor s is functionally e.g. communicatively coupled to each functional element within device and to memory through bus which can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In addition processor s can supply information to and retrieve information from memory wherein the information can enable at least in part operation and or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platform and at least a portion of component s therein scanner component collection component display interface clock layer s functional platform and component s therein as well as other operational components not shown of device . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute code instructions stored in memory to provide or to enable the described functionality of device the code instructions can be retained within application storage system storage or other memory ies functionally coupled to device . Such code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that when executed by processor s implement various methods described in the subject disclosure and that are associated at least in part with described functionality of device in connection with supplying a report of network performance incident s .

Memory can retain at least in part in an application storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or instructions or substantially any type of software application or firmware application that processor s can execute to provide functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within device in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage such as encoded pilot signal s one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell and femtocell identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric keys such as voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints deoxyribonucleic acid DNA profiles hardware identifying tokens or codes such as at least one of an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI a temporary mobile subscriber identity TMSI packet TMSI P TMSI an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI an a mobile directory number MDN a mobile identification number MIN a Telecommunications Industry Association TIA electronic serial number ESN or a multi bit identification number such as mobile identity number MEID . It is noted that memory can include affixed or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM .

Device also includes power supply which can provide power to one or more components or functional elements that operate within device . In an aspect power supply can be rechargeable e.g. it can be embodied in a rechargeable battery. In addition power supply can include one or more transformers to achieve power level s that can operate device and components or functional elements and related circuitry therein. In an aspect power supply can attach to a conventional power grid to recharge or ensure device is operational power supply can include input output I O interface s not shown or connector s not shown to functionally attach to the conventional power grid. Power supply also can include an energy conversion component s not shown such as a solar panel or a thermoelectric device or material which can be external or internal to the device in order to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy to device .

Indicia enables supplying additional information that further characterizes the network performance incident. The additional information can include comments related to the network performance incident or its environment. In addition in one or more embodiments indicia can allow rendition of information e.g. views related to reporting of network performance incidents. As an example a view that discloses all incidents reported by the device that renders example UI can be rendered in response to actuation of one or more soft buttons not shown that is part of indicia rendition of such view can be responsive to configurable filter settings. As another example a view that conveys operation details of a particular incident current or historical can be rendered in response to actuation of a soft button not shown that is part of indicia .

Soft button when actuated enables delivery of a report of a network performance incident. Support information for utilization of UI to report a network performance incident can be rendered through a disparate UI not shown in response to actuation of soft button . As an example selection of incident indicia in group e.g. one of Dropped Call Failed Call Attempt No Coverage Data Failure or Poor Voice Quality and actuation of soft button can result in rendition of information that explains the nature of the network performance incident represented by the incident indicia. In diagram selection of Data Failure soft button is represented with an open slanted arrow. As another example actuation of soft button can render content that explains information that is available through user interface or UI s derived there from. In addition in certain scenarios as part of the support information the disparate UI not shown rendered in response to actuation of soft button can enable delivery of data that identify a preferred Wi Fi AP and nominate the Wi Fi AP to be part of a network of Wi Fi APs the data delivered to a network platform of a telecommunication carrier or service provider. For example in such scenarios the data can be delivered via email where the disparate UI includes a link to a specific email address that when selected causes the device e.g. that renders the disparate UI to execute an email message delivery application in device such application can be retained in application storage .

As discussed supra the device that renders example UI can perform a diagnostic cycle in response to a Data failure network performance incident. In one example implementation as presented in a subscriber can be prompted through a user interface to perform the diagnostic cycle in response to reporting data failure through actuation indicated with an open arrow of Data Failure soft button in . The prompt can be accomplished through rendition of indicia that request input from the user device that renders example UI rendition of such indicia can include darkening indicated with a grey shadowed area of the various soft buttons of example UI . Upon acceptance to perform the diagnostic cycle which can be conveyed through actuation of a Yes soft button the diagnostic cycle is performed and a user interface in is rendered to indicate the diagnostic cycle is being conducted indicia in UI conveys progress of the diagnostic cycle. Data collected as part of the diagnostic cycle is delivered to the network operator. It should be appreciated that other user interfaces and related indicia can be employed to prompt for acceptance of a diagnostic cycle and to convey progress of such diagnostic.

In an example UI conveys location of a network performance incident in a map. The device e.g. device that renders example UI can retrieve the map from a server that is part of a network platform e.g. of the network operator or an external network functionally coupled to the network platform e.g. and that provides location based services. In an aspect the device can retrieve exploit a collection component e.g. and a communication platform e.g. . A block of indicia allows determination of the incident location through actuation of a Current soft button such determination can be made in accordance with satellite based data e.g. GNNS data acquired by the device that renders example UI or TOF measurements performed by the device as described supra. In map the estimated location of the network performance incident is presented as a pin connected to a cross other indicia can be employed as well. In an aspect the specific position of the pin and linked cross can be altered through one or more gestures such as pressure sensitive gestures which can include finger swipes or finger movement while in contact with a surface of a display in the device e.g. that renders the example UI . Such mode of providing a specific location for the network performance incident can be activated through selection of Map in the block of indicia which enables various sources of location estimates. For example selection of Satellite causes the device that renders example UI to estimate a current location based on GNNS data whereas selection of Hybrid provides a location estimate based on a combination of a selection on the map and GNNS data. In one or more embodiments a tracking mode for the current location can be enabled wherein the pin and the cross connected thereto moves within a rendered map e.g. as the current location changes thus the location of the device that renders example UI can be followed as the device moves in real space. The rendered map e.g. positions itself as the current location changes. In an aspect the tracking mode can be activated if an In Transit selection is effected. In another aspect the tracking mode can be activated if a dedicated soft button e.g. Tracking Mode button not shown in block is actuated.

In addition location s for which data that specifies a network performance incident is queued can be conveyed in a rendered map that includes location of the network performance incident as an example such location s are represented as grey pins in map . Other indicia also can be employed to convey location s for a queued submission. Location s of previously reported network performance incidents also can be included in a rendered map that includes location of a network performance incident as an example in map a pin with a concentric circle can indicate location s of historical network performance incident s and related report submission s . In an aspect in example UI a Clear soft button can remove from the map one or more location s of previously reported network performance incidents. Other indicia also can be employed to convey such location s . Moreover a set of open or semi open confined coverage access points e.g. Wi Fi APs femtocell APs . . . represented with a circle with three arcs and a dot also can be displayed in the map . A confined coverage access point AP is generally deployed as part of a private or semi private dwelling the confined coverage AP provides wireless coverage to a confined area owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the confined coverage AP where the confined area can encompass the private or semi private dwelling. Disclosure of location of a confined coverage AP can guide a subscriber to areas of possible interest e.g. coffee shop health club public library.

In one or more embodiments such as example UI a disclosure indicator can be rendered on top or otherwise attached to of a pin linked to a location to convey coordinates of the location e.g. latitude longitude and details of a report e.g. type of report date of report . . . that has been submitted for the specific location identified by the pin. While illustrated for a current location pin in example UI the disclosure indicator and pertinent coordinates of location and details of a report can be rendered for any other pin e.g. queued location past submission location that is rendered in UI .

In additional or alternative embodiments a soft button not shown can be included in example UI to display when the soft button is actuated cell tower or macrocell base station locations in a map e.g. and characterize such cell towers according to the radio technology e.g. 2.5G 3G 3.5G 4G . . . that the cell towers employ to serve wireless service. In addition further actuation of the soft button can render location s of planned cell tower construction locations. In an aspect a collection component e.g. in the device e.g. that renders the cell tower locations deployed or planned can receive from a display interface e.g. an indication to query feedback system and request available information on deployment current or planned for macrocell base stations or any other type of access point.

Actuation of soft button E renders example UI in . Various aspects of device performance optimization can be enabled as illustrated by the group of indicia . Actuation of a soft button in the group of indicia can result in additional user interface s being rendered. Such UI s can allow exchange of data related to operation of the device e.g. the data being specific to performance that is intended to be optimized For example home performance data performance or battery. Actuation of Home Performance soft button or Data Performance soft button can result in data collection as described supra. For example for Home performance a query response UI can be rendered to convey a set of questions related to such performance 1 Can you make calls everywhere with good quality at home 2 Do you have high speed internet at home If yes do you have Wi Fi at home and 3 Do you have a 3G Microcell at home Based on the collected responses the device e.g. that renders example UI and the query response UI not shown can render additional user interface s to provide guidance e.g. a tip to improve network performance associated with the reported incident. The guidance can be provided as a message which can include a web based link to details related to implementation of the guidance.

Actuation of Battery soft button also can result in data collection that probes operation condition of an existing battery within the device that render the example UI . In addition such actuation can render at least one user interface that conveys battery options available for purchase from the network operator or one or more vendors the at least one user interface can include a link to a web based interface e.g. webpage in which the purchase can be conducted. Moreover the at least one user interface can convey alternative operation configurations for the device that are directed to improving battery performance such as executing a monitoring cycle that adjusts backlighting intensity in the device s display s based on environment in which the device operates.

Example user interface in conveys indicia that enable at least in part access to network operator feedback related to current or historical reports on network performance incident. A network operator telecommunication carrier service network provider etc. can provide part of the feedback based on a subscription and part of the feedback based on subscriber preference s in an aspect a feedback system e.g. can generate and deliver the network operator feedback as described supra. Actuation of a soft button in the group of indicia can result in additional user interface s being rendered. As an example block of indicia includes a National Network News soft button that when actuated causes the device that renders UI to render information that can disclose planned network developments e.g. deployment of 3G macrocell base station or current response to a class of network performance incidents e.g. lack of coverage in a specific area . Information conveyed as a result of actuation of National Network News soft button can be disclosed as announcement s soft button can present a number K a real number of available announcements or alerts e.g. new announcements announcements issued within a predetermined time interval etc. Example UI in represents the set of K announcements Message 1 Message 2 Message 3 . . . Message K that can be rendered. In addition example UI can include an Unsubscribe soft button that when actuated enables in part termination of a subscription to the National Network News alert service. Likewise block of indicia can include a Local Network News soft button that when actuated can cause the device that renders UI to render feedback information e.g. announcements for a specific area which can be configurable and identified with a ZIP code or a geospatial entity object code geocode . Soft button also can display a number P a natural number of available announcements.

In addition block of indicia can include a set of soft buttons that conveys personalized feedback related to specific areas personalization can be based at least on input received by the device that renders example UI . Soft buttons and relate respectively to planned and complete Personalized Reporting Area News where announcement s in response to one or more classes of network performance incidents for a selected area e.g. a specific ZIP code are disclosed. Number of available announcements or alerts also can be rendered as part of soft buttons and e.g. Q announcements for planned response and R announcements for complete response with Q and P integer numbers. Example UI in represents the set of Q announcements Message 1 Message 2 Message 3 . . . Message Q that can be rendered. In an aspect each rendered message can include a Map soft button and a Feedback soft button . Actuation of soft button causes in part the device e.g. that renders example UI to render a UI that conveys a map with a location of the submission area related to the message and indicia e.g. a circle surrounding the prospective or planned network development. Actuation of soft button can cause the device that renders the example UI to launch or execute an email application software or firmware or any other electronic communication application retained in a memory e.g. within the device e.g. .

A UI similar to example UI can be rendered in response to actuation of soft button . In an embodiment of the UI that is similar to example UI feedback soft button can be split in a plurality of soft buttons e.g. three soft buttons with each soft button characterizing the subscriber response to the complete network development e.g. Better Service Same Service Worse Service .

In example UI soft button when actuated can result in rendering of feedback content for predetermined area s of interest e.g. university campus workplace area tourism destination area where relatives live or the like. In an aspect content disclosed in response to actuation of soft button can include community features that enable social interaction amongst subscribers that share an area of interest. For instance subscribers that are interested in response of a network operator to issues that originate in a university campus can exchange messages in chat format post messages in forum s or provide information in blog or micro blog format.

As part of the analysis aggregation component can exploit assessment component to summarize at least in part the data available e.g. collected or acquired data as a result of a plurality of reports of network performance incidents. For example aggregation component can extract I data associated with reports of network performance incidents received from a plurality of subscribers in an area proximate e.g. within a predetermined radius or characteristic distance to location R at the time or at times within a predetermined range from and II alarm status or key performance indicators for network equipment that can affect service in the area proximate to R. Based at least on I and II and other customer supplied information related to a network performance incident or network performance incident category assessment component can provide an analysis of network operation condition. Such available data also can be categorized for example in accordance with type of network performance issue or network problem. In one or more additional or alternative embodiments of analysis component assessment component can reside within aggregation component .

Assessment component can operate on received or aggregated data to generate at least one network performance metric or network operation metric which is part of the network operation intelligence generated as a result of availability of the data reported by the set of devices . In an aspect assessment component can compute one or more metrics associated with reported data on network performance incidents from a set of devices e.g. and that specify at least in part a probability that at least one device in the set of devices is experiencing a network related performance issue or a device related performance issue. In another aspect from data collected from measured pilot signals at a time of an incident or after an incident assessment component can determine operational parameters of a set of one or more competing network operators and retain such information in respective one or more network intelligence storage e.g. network intelligence in memory element . As an example assessment component can compute at least one of a number of unique sector identifiers per competing network operator or a number of unique sector carriers per competing network operator. In yet another aspect assessment component can review and classify information or data on existing plans for network development in specific areas for which a set of reports on network performance incidents and related data are available such plans can include plans for improvements to existing deployment s e.g. optimization of deployment new deployments or technology rollouts new cell site builds capacity augmentation e.g. acquisition of additional licenses to portions of electromagnetic radiation spectrum or the like. In still another aspect based on aggregated data related to a plurality of network performance incidents assessment component can generate at least in part a set of network interference matrices wherein one or more matrices originate from interference measurements related to one or more competing network operators and the network operator that administers feedback system . Measurements of unique macrocell sector carriers performed by one or more devices that report a network performance incident can allow composing a matrix of mutual interference between such carriers.

As part of generation of network performance metrics assessment component can compare submitted tickets for service in a given area and can normalize to the number of subscribers in the area that own or lease a device with a deployed e.g. installed tested and active incident report component e.g. to evaluate relative importance of problem areas. Such network performance metric can be employed for capital allocation or investment prioritization. In addition data collected through network performance incident reports from customers in a specific area with a Wi Fi enabled device but that do not utilize an available Wi Fi AP in the specific area can be utilized to produce and deliver e.g. via direct mail email or other media offers for Wi Fi service. Likewise customer with a Wi Fi enabled device with business or residential internet service provided by the network operator that provide telecommunication service but do not have Wi Fi service also can be offered Wi Fi service. In contrast to conventional marketing of services or products service offerings described herein are based on device driven customer supplied data on network performance incidents are highly customized and respond to an actual need thus are more likely to produce a commercial transaction e.g. retention of Wi Fi service than offerings provided through conventional mechanisms or systems and based on typical data segmentation.

As part of analysis of data related to report of network performance incidents analysis component via assessment component for example can produce clusters of reported incidents. As an example network performance incidents within a predetermined time interval e.g. a block of two rush hours such as 6 30 a 8 30 a and within a predetermined distance of each other can be part of a cluster. Clusters can be categorized according to A clusters in an area with previously available information related to a network performance problem e.g. known problem and B remainder clusters. As a result of such categorization or filtering provides clusters in areas with network performance problems for which network resources can be allocated to indentify a solution. As another example network performance incidents can be mapped to their closest base station or cell tower to form clusters of incidents that spatially coincide with deployed base stations. In an aspect by mapping network performance incidents to a base station analysis component can trigger a service ticket e.g. a repair or maintenance ticket for the base station based at least on number of reporting events e.g. number of reports received from a set of unique reporting devices for the base station. For instance for the base station assessment component can monitor temporal evolution of number of reports and based on a set of rules can identify a surge or spike in number of reports and generate an alarm which report component can provide to operation layer s not shown in for example. Based at least on the alarm one or more components in operation layer s can generate a service ticket. Correlation of identified spikes and KPI for the base station such as average dropped call percentage can be exploited to determine threshold s for subscriber response to service degradation and thus effectively allocate resources to attain service performance compatible with subscriber response. Aggregation component can exploit intelligent component to establish such thresholds which can be retained as part of network intelligence .

In example embodiment data mining component can enable at least in part aggregation of acquired received retrieved etc. data and the various operations of assessment component . Data mining component can extract data from data storage and can supply the data to aggregation component which can process the data or relay the data to assessment component for generation of network intelligence as described above. Data mining component can exploit at least in part intelligent component in order to at least extract spatial and temporal correlations between data or identify data patterns or network performance patterns which can include location based network performance patterns. Intelligent component can exploit various artificial intelligence AI methods.

Intelligent component also can exploit artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios network performance incident s based at least on historical data of network performance incidents in a specific area or for a specific group of subscribers. In addition intelligent component can exploit AI methods to optimize or to achieve a satisfactory utility trade off between the cost of performing a network improvement directed to addressing e.g. solving one or more categories of network problems and the benefit of mitigating subscriber attrition as a result of presence of the one or more categories of network problems.

Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set. In particular analysis component or components therein can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. Such methodologies can be retained in memory within algorithm storage. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited.

Analysis component and one or more components therein can utilize algorithm s retained in memory element in addition to at least a portion of data stored in data cache to implement at least a portion of the various previously described operations on received or aggregated data e.g. mapping assessment data mining classification and segmentation and so forth. It should be appreciated that data cache also can be external to data storage or memory . Algorithm s retained in memory element also includes at least one mathematical algorithm for analysis of time series originated from various reports of network performance incidents related to a specific area or market a specific base station and a unique set of reporting devices e.g. . For example the at least one mathematical algorithm for analysis of time series can be defined or configured to detect e.g. mathematically identify a surge or spike in reporting of network performance incidents. When implemented e.g. executed by a processor such retained algorithm s can implement at least in part computation of statistics e.g. averages variances and standard deviations covariance matrices . . . generation of database views e.g. specific subsets of data extraction and representation of data connectivity transformation of data for spectral analysis thereof based upon Fourier transformation wavelet transformation . . . or the like.

Algorithm s in algorithm storage also can include algorithms that when implemented e.g. executed by a processor can afford to compress and extract data or generate log records of data manipulation such as generation of network intelligence creation of databases and new record views or the like. Data compression can be accomplished at least in part via lossless data compression which can be employed for received data that is deemed critical or strategic or lossy compression for data that is readily available.

Data stored in data cache can serve as a training set for generation of models of network operation e.g. such as traffic development marketplace exploitation and so forth. Contents of data cache also can serve to conduct one or more integrity tests of selected data to ensure collected data is not corrupted or schedules of planned indoor scans are appropriate for collection of data for specific types of analysis.

In example embodiment findings of analysis of data acquired e.g. received or retrieved through reports of network performance incidents can be reported to various functional layers of a network operator network. For example reports of analyzed data or network intelligence collected in network intelligence can be supplied to operation layer s or to a planning layer not shown to enable at least in part network planning or network optimization e.g. repairs . In an aspect report component can generated reports of various aspects of network intelligence retained in memory element and can supply the reports to the various functional layers indicated supra. Report component can adjust format or content of a report base at least on the intended recipient of the report. In certain embodiments report component can request aggregation component to produce specific views e.g. portions of data that satisfy a predetermined criterion of available data. As an example report component can views of raw data e.g. data that has not been analyzed in accordance with specific time of occurrence of an incident specific location s or area specific category of incident etc. Format of reported data can include charts graphics tables or the like.

As an example of reports that enable in part network planning illustrates a diagram of spatial distribution of two categories of network incidents in a predetermined area which can be selected for analysis a first category of incidents is represented with upright crosses and a second category is represented with slanted crosses . The predetermined area includes a first region associated with a first radio network controller and a second region associated with a second radio network controller the first and second radio controllers can be part of access network s . In diagram a thick line represents the boundary amongst the first region and the second region . In addition diagram also includes a set of base stations onto which a set of the incidents have mapped such base stations are represented with rings. Moreover a second set of base stations identified to have operational problems and are scheduled for or actively being repaired hatched circles represent such base stations. It is noted that base stations in the second set are not identified through device driven reporting and associated analysis described herein but are identified via conventional mechanisms instead. As illustrated certain base stations in the first set and the second set are nearly overlapping in space however there are base stations in the first set that are not identified as problematic by conventional mechanisms. Moreover there are base stations in the second set that are in regions of low density of reported incidents even though such base stations are being repaired or scheduled for repairs. Therefore in an example scenario based on data associated with reports of network performance incidents and related analysis reported in diagram the network operator can allocate resources to repair base stations in group instead of base stations in group .

Another feature of network intelligence provided through reports such as diagram is that no coverage areas can be unveiled and thus network investment s can be directed to develop such areas for example area indicates a region in which network performance incidents are reported and no base stations are deployed therein. Similarly network intelligence generated through analysis component and conveyed in reports such as diagram can reveal regions with potential border issues such as area .

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions e.g. an incoming call with device s served through access network via link s and link s which include wireline links e.g. reference links or wireless link s e.g. line of sight LOS links . Device s is a set of devices that includes wireless device s wireline device s or a combination thereof. For example device s can include a mobile device of a subscriber that exploits device driven reporting related intelligence and associated network feedback as described herein and a set of wireline devices that also can exploit device driven reporting related intelligence and associated feedback as described herein. Device s can embody the set of devices .

Access network s can include one or more components that enable transmission of data and signaling including related payload data amongst device s and network platform access network s can be part of access network s and operate in substantially the same or the same manner thereof. Access network s can include a radio access network RAN and associated component s . The RAN comprises one or more macrocell base stations and associated electronic circuitry and respective deployment site s of the one or more macrocell base stations. In addition the RAN includes the air interface which comprises a least one wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s radio technology. It should be noted that the RAN comprises various coverage cells. For a wireless device served by base station s not shown one or more network components that are part of a radio access network in access network enable transmission of data and signaling. For wireline devices one or more components that are part of a wireline network e.g. service network s enable the transmission of data and signaling. Link s represented with open arrows operationally coupled to network interface s can deliver data and signaling to the wireline device via the one or more components of the wireline network for example represented by access network and related link s represented with open arrows connecting the access network to device s . Data sessions e.g. an incoming call can include traffic exchange with networks external to network platform such as wide area network s WAN s or service network s local area network s LAN s e.g. enhanced also can be interfaced with network platform through PS gateway node s . Network interface s enable the traffic exchange such interface s can include conventional wireline or wireless links or reference links specific to each of the external network s that interface with PS gateway node s or other portions of the PS domain in network platform . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate packet data protocol PDP contexts when a data session is established. To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technology generations etc. It should be further appreciated that packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a mobility switching center MSC or application server s which in certain embodiments can implement at least a part of the functionality of server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

In network environment network platform also includes serving node s that conveys the various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to device s and that are received through PS gateway node s from server s . In turn server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to service network s which can include an IP multimedia subsystem IMS core or other packet based cores from user equipment within device s or network elements. As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in a Mobility Management Entity MME .

Server s can operate in various layers of network platform . For example server s can operate as part of Operations Support Systems OSS Business Support Systems BSS or network subsystems such as IMS core network. Server s can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services provided by network platform in an aspect the add on features can include the customized communication processing described herein. Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization and initiation of a data session e.g. an incoming call and to serving node s for communication to device s thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls see e.g. of network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN s wide area network s LAN s local area network s IMS core network which can be part of service network s or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of network platform . To that end the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of code instructions not shown stored in memory for example.

In example network environment memory can store information related to operation of network platform . Information can include content s such as subscriber generated content or from various other sources subscriber account s and associated credential s pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns and so forth. Memory also can store part of data related to implementation of device driven reporting of network incidents associated intelligence and related network feedback and network intelligence. In addition memory can store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN s LAN s SS7 network or service network s . While illustrated as a single entity memory can be distributed amongst one or more of the described external networks server s or other functional elements of network platform . Memory can be embodied at least in part in a visitor location register VLR a home subscriber server HSS or storage available within a consolidated data repository that centralizes data administrative data operational data etc. for at least network platform .

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in and call flow in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a removable volatile memory or non volatile memory to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the one or more method described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory volatile or non volatile or any computer or machine readable storage medium to implement one or more of the method described herein. Such code instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to enact the various methods described herein.

At act feedback associated with the network performance incident is received see e.g. the feedback supplied by a network operator that provides communication service to the device through the network in which the network performance occurs. In one or more embodiments the network operator can provide other service s in addition to or instead of communication service as an example the device can be a digital video recorder DVR an the network operator can provide entertainment via a pay per view subscription or contracted cable service.

A positive outcome to act directs the flow to act which is described below. Conversely a negative outcome of act directs the flow to act at which at least a portion of incident data e.g. time stamp location of reporting device content collected by the device . . . collected during reporting an incident is queued. For devices that implement the subject method and include GNNS functionality a location estimate of the position of the device is generally available even though wireless service coverage can be unavailable when reporting the incident. For a device that implements the subject example method and lacks GNNS functionality and produces location estimate s based in part on time of flight measurements a location of the device when reporting an incident can be estimated through historical location estimates which can be retained at least temporarily in a memory within the device. At act at least the portion of incident data collected during reporting the incident is retained as part of historical incident data. In one or more embodiment data storage can retain the historical incident data.

At act it is determined if coverage is available after reporting the incident. In an aspect of the subject disclosure determining availability of coverage includes determining if coverage provided through one or more services alternative or additional to macro cellular service is available. For instance the determining can include probing if femtocell service or Wi Fi service is available such probing can be accomplished by scanning e.g. collecting and decoding pilot signal for various services and assessing signal strength. A negative outcome results in re enacting act whereas a positive outcome leads to act at which it is probed if historical incident data is queued. A negative outcome of act terminates the subject example method. Conversely a positive outcome of act leads to act at which the historical incident data that is queued is delivered.

At act operation support content is conveyed based at least on a portion of outcome of the integrity probe cycle. In an aspect conveying the operation support content includes generating at least one message that includes a recommendation or an instruction associated with the incident report and rendering the at least one message the generating and rendering effected by the device that implements the subject example method. In one or more embodiment the rendering includes displaying one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs that disclose the at least one message. In another aspect conveying the operation support content includes delivering at least one of a request and the portion of outcome of the integrity probe to a backend service node which can be part of a backend service system e.g. to generate and supply the operation support content.

In one or more embodiments example method also can include receiving information related to a network service that is available to the device and that can improve performance of the device. In such embodiment s a feedback system e.g. can generate the information based on historical data related to integrity probe cycles for the device and can deliver the information to the device.

At act it is determined if operational information is unavailable. If operational information is unavailable exception handling is implemented at act . In one example exception handling includes issuing a service reference ticket to address the network performance incident. In the alternative if operational information is available at least a portion of the operational information is conveyed at act . As discussed supra the operational information can be conveyed as feedback e.g. to at least one subscriber device that delivered the incident data.

In an aspect the provisioning act includes initiating a chat session and rendering a user interface to in UE to receive input data and convey input the input data can be received from an end user or from at least one component e.g. feedback component that is part of feedback system . Input data received by the UE from the at least one component can be generated within a customer service layer which can be part of external layer s and supplied to the at least one component for delivery to UE . In one or more embodiments device can embody UE and feedback system can embody feedback system .

At act the data is acquired based on the specific network service. As an example if the request is a query for network news the feedback system component e.g. feedback component that implements the subject example method can acquire the data from an operation layer or a network node therein such as a memory or memory element. In the alternative or in addition the feedback system component e.g. feedback component can acquire the data from a memory that is part of the feedback system e.g. . As another example if the request relates to access to network intelligence produced in the feedback system the feedback system component can access memory and acquire the data.

At act the data is delivered to the requestor component. In one or more embodiments a report component in feedback component can convey the data. Delivering the data includes conveying a data message with at least a portion of the data as payload or conveying a SMS communication or MMS communication wherein either of such communications can transport the data as payload.

Multichannel access gateway comprises client access tier and business service access tier . In an aspect client access tier can authenticate a client application e.g. incident report component that is embodied in a set of code instructions retained in a memory and executed by a processor in the at least one device and can authorize the client application. In another aspect client access tier can implement data validation and can manage format of data exchanged between client presentation tier and business services tier . In certain embodiments gateway node s e.g. that can be part of a network platform e.g. can reside in client access tier .

Business service access tier can implement service registration with external layer s e.g. and session management for a client application and a related service e.g. a back end application . In addition business service access tier can implement data transformation to ensure suitable delivery to a device in the set of one or more device s data that is transformed can be data exchanged between the device and a related client application and a backend service. In certain embodiment gateway node s e.g. that can be part of a network platform e.g. can reside in business service access tier .

Business services tier can administer back end services. For example business service tier can enable back end service s authorize and authenticate a service consumer and apply business rule s and logic. In an aspect feedback system can be deployed e.g. installed tested and utilized as part of business services tier . In another aspect at least a portion of operation layer s can be deployed as part of business services tier . Data that is received generated or otherwise available at business services tier can be retained in business data tier . For example network intelligence produced as a result of analysis of data associated with a plurality of reports of network performance incidents can be stored in memory elements databases tables registers etc. that are deployed as part of business data tier .

Security tier enables at least in part various security features that can be implemented in one or more tiers such as client access tier business service access tier or business services tier . Security tier also can implement encryption decryption management of tokens security socket layer SSL protocol and so forth. Credentials or any information relevant to implementation of security features can be retained in memory element s within business data tier .

Service management tier can enable data caching logging procedures performance management and fault management. In an aspect as part of performance management service management tier can enable load management e.g. load balancing in the client access tier and business service access tier . In another aspect service management tier can implement application server clustering in business service access tier .

Prior to receiving a report credential of the device that utilizes e.g. executes the incident report component is validated through a CSP XML extensible markup language API application programming interface via security server s . The security sever s can be embodied in cryptographic service provider CSP server s . The device e.g. device that is validated can exploit keychain software for persistence of username and password session ID application identity ID application passcode or other security credentials in an aspect such credentials can be delivered in HTTPS Headers as part of delivery of data reports supplemental data etc. received from the device. In addition or in the alternative web server s can perform CSR lookup prior to implementation of various feedback system methods as described supra e.g. .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

It should be appreciated that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated with reference to Wi Fi access point s and associated Wi Fi coverage such aspects and features also can be exploited for most any type or any type of confined coverage access point s CCAPs that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example femtocell telecommunication or picocell telecommunication. Additionally aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication technology or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Moreover substantially all aspects of the subject innovation can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes incorporates has possesses their variations and the like are employed in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

