---

title: Method to record a media file
abstract: A method and system for recording a media file, include a recorder and a player. The recorder receives in real time a first content of the media file; stores the first content in a recorded media file; and determines that the recorded media file includes a hole. The player plays in real time the recorded media file including the hole. The recorder then receives a second file data packet which includes a second content of the media file to fill the hole, and stores the second content in the recorded media file. The recorded media file can be replayed with the filled hole. During the replay, more content of the media file is played than during the first play.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407893&OS=09407893&RS=09407893
owner: TP LAB, INC.
number: 09407893
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140528
---
The present application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 351 803 filed on Feb. 10 2006.

When video cassette recorder VCR was first introduced consumer flocked to purchase one so that they can record television programs. Typically a user would record her favorite show and watches the recording at a later time. Sometimes she is watching a television program while she is recording the same program so that she can watch the program again in a future time. The recording mechanism of a VCR is to record signals received by the VCR. If there is a glitch in television broadcast causing for example a snow screen or blurry pictures the VCR records the snow screen and the blurry pictures. The replay of the recording would thus be no better than the playing of the original broadcast.

As video transmission migrates to using data networks transmission of signal uses data packets. However the basic recording mechanism remains unchanged. For example a digital VCR records television programs transmitted through a data network for example IPTV. If there is a glitch in the transmission such as missing packets the digital VCR records some predetermined or arbitrary data in place of the missing data. During the viewing of the television program a user sees snow screen or blurry pictures. When the user replays the recorded program on the digital VCR the user also sees the snow screen or blurry pictures. Certainly a user desires the recorded program to be perfect containing neither snow screen nor blurry pictures.

A method and system for recording a media file include a recorder and a player. The recorder receives in real time a first content of the media file stores the first content in a recorded media file and determines that the recorded media file includes a hole. The player plays in real time the recorded media file including the hole. The recorder then receives a second content of the media file to fill the hole and stores the second content in the recorded media file. The recorded media file can be replayed with the filled hole. During the replay more content of the media file is played than during the first play.

In one embodiment a media file is an audio file such as a song a speech recorded sound or audio clip. In one embodiment a media file is a video file such as a movie an animation clip a video clip a television program recording or a video recording. In one embodiment a media file is a television broadcast or a radio broadcast. In one embodiment a media file is a live concert televised sport event live news broadcast. In one embodiment a media file is an article such as a book a piece of news written paper spreadsheet or presentation slides. In one embodiment a media file is a picture such as a photo graphical image graph or table.

Recorder receives file data about a media file from a server . File data includes content of media file . Recorder then records content of media file into a recorded media file . In one embodiment the content includes the entire content of media file . In another embodiment the content includes a portion of the content of media file . Player plays content of media file . In one embodiment Player plays content of media file from the recorded media file at the same time as recorder is recording the recorded media file . In one embodiment player plays the content from the recorded media file at a different time.

Recorder receives file data packet . Recorder obtains file segment and file segment location from file data packet . Recorder places file segment in recorded media file at the location indicated by file segment location .

Recorder places the file segments into recorded media file . Recorded media file includes a file segment hole at location . Hole has a size of 1000 bytes. Recorded media file contains less content than media file . A hole as used in this specification refers to missing portions or gaps in a recorded media file in comparison to the media file.

After player plays hole of recorded media file recorder receives a file data packet . File data packet includes a file segment and a file segment location . File segment and file segment location allow recorder to fill hole . Recorder places file segment into recorded media file . Recorded media file represents the recorded media file after recorder places file segment .

Recorded media file contains more content than recorded media file . In one embodiment recorder partially fills hole with file segment . Recorded media file includes a plurality of holes between location and location . The plurality of holes is a part of hole . In another embodiment recorder completely fills hole . Recorded media file does not have a hole between location and location .

Recorder records recorded media file . Recorder receives a file data packet . File data packet includes file segment and file segment location . Recorder places file segment into recorded media file at file segment location . Recorder determines there s a hole of recorded media file . Hole is at location of recorded media file . In one embodiment Recorder determines there s a hole after placing the file segment .

Recorder sends to server information about hole . In one embodiment recorder sends the location of hole . In another embodiment recorder sends the location and the size of hole .

In one embodiment recorder receives a file data packet that fills hole after recorder sends to server information about hole . In one embodiment server sends the file data packet as a response to the information sent by recorder . In one embodiment the file data packet is automatically received by the recorder without sending to server information about the hole . For example file data packet arrives at the recorder after the hole is played.

In one embodiment a recording system includes a recorder and a player. The recording system receives in real time content of a media file from file data sent from a server. The recording system plays in real time content of the media file. The recording system at the same time records content of the media file into a recorded media file. In one embodiment the recording system receives content of media file with a hole. For example the hole is caused by missing one or more file data packets one or more corrupted file data packets or a temporary disconnection between the recording system and the server. The recording system plays the hole. The recording system detects and informs the server about the hole. The server sends file data containing content filling the hole. In one embodiment the server sends the file data filling the hole after the recording system plays the hole. The recording system records the content of the file data at the location of the hole. The recording system does not play content of the file data that fills the hole. The recording system records more content of the media file than the amount of content of the media file played by the recording system.

In one embodiment a media playing system includes a recorder and a player. The media playing system receives a media file from a server. The media playing system plays content of media file multiple times. In one embodiment the media playing system plays content of media file the first time when the media playing system is receiving the content. The media playing system plays the second time content of media file after the media playing system records content of media file. In one embodiment during the first play the media playing system receives content of the media file with a hole. For example the hole is caused by missing one or more data packets one or more corrupted data packets a temporary disconnection between the recording system and the server. The media playing system plays the hole. The media playing system detects and informs the server about the hole. The server sends file data containing content filling the hole. In one embodiment the server sends the file data filling the hole after the media playing system plays the hole. The media playing system does not play content of the file data that fills the hole. The media playing system records the content of the file data at the location of the hole. The media playing system records more content of media file than the amount of content of media file played by the media playing system during the first play. During the second play the media playing system plays content from the recorded media file. The media playing system plays during the second play more content of media file than the amount of content of media file played during the first play.

In one embodiment the communication channel between recorder and server includes a data network media transmission network television broadcasting network television transmission network cable network local area network or wide area network. In another embodiment the communication channel includes an application programming interface function call or remote procedure call.

In a scenario recorder receives file data from server. In another scenario recorder sends to server information about a hole. In yet another scenario recorder receives file data from server as a response to the information about a hole. In one embodiment recorder communicates to different modules in a server for the plurality of scenarios. Recorder may communicate to the different server modules using different communication channels.

In one embodiment recorded media file is stored in data storage such as a hard disk flash memory removable storage such as a digital video disc or cassette. A player plays a recorded media file by retrieving from the data storage.

In one embodiment player plays content of media file from the file data received by recorder. In one embodiment player also receives the file data from server. Server sends the file data to both recorder and player.

Foregoing described embodiments of the invention are provided as illustrations and descriptions. They are not intended to limit the invention to precise form described. In particular it is contemplated that functional implementation of invention described herein may be implemented equivalently in hardware software firmware and or other available functional components or building blocks and that networks may be wired wireless or a combination of wired and wireless. Other variations and embodiments are possible in light of above teachings and it is thus intended that the scope of invention not be limited by this Detailed Description but rather by Claims following.

