---

title: System facilitating user access to content stored or exposed on connected electronic communication devices
abstract: A communication system facilitating the establishment of a channel of communication for multiple electronic communication devices includes a registration server. The system also includes a plurality of enabled electronic communication devices in communication with the registration server. Each of the plurality of enabled electronic communication devices including an application programming interface enabling communication with the registration server. The communication server further includes a local communication network and a global communication network. If the plurality of enabled electronic communication devices are in the local communication network, communication amongst the plurality of enabled electronic communication device is established using the local communication network and if the plurality of electronic communication devices are not in the local communication network, communication amongst the plurality of enabled electronic communication device is established using the global communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503274&OS=09503274&RS=09503274
owner: 
number: 09503274
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140227
---
The present application is directed to a system allowing users access to content that is stored or exposed on any other connected electronic communication device.

Computers and mobile devices can connect to each other over some form of data network in order to enable connected devices to access content on other devices connected to the data network. Because these networks are designed to be either connectivity centric device centric or OS operating system centric access and use of the content have one or more of the following limitations 

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a communication system facilitating the establishment of a channel of communication for multiple electronic communication devices including a registration server. The system also includes a plurality of enabled electronic communication devices in communication with the registration server. Each of the plurality of enabled electronic communication devices including an application programming interface enabling communication with the registration server. The communication server further includes a local communication network and a global communication network. If the plurality of enabled electronic communication devices are in the local communication network communication amongst the plurality of enabled electronic communication device is established using the local communication network and if the plurality of electronic communication devices are not in the local communication network communication amongst the plurality of enabled electronic communication device is established using the global communication network.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein the registration server facilitates seamless switching between use of local communication networks and global communication networks.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein the local communication network is a Wi Fi network or a LAN subnet.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein each of the enabled electronic communication devices includes an application in a form of computer software specifically adapted for implementing procedural steps and functionalities.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a communication system including a Peer To Peer rendezvous server providing for firewall and network address translation traversal.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein the Peer To Peer rendezvous server implements STUN TURN or ICE protocols.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein enabled electronic communication devices have the ability to view content stream media content transfer content or move or delete content of any other enabled electronic communication device.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein files can be both PUSHED and PULLED from one enabled electronic communication device to another enabled electronic communication device.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a communication system including REMOTE CONTROL features allowing an enabled electronic communication device to take control of another enabled electronic communication device.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein the plurality of enabled electronic devices are selected from the group consisting of a computer a cellular phone a tablet computer a Lync box a television set and a NAS drive.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a communication system wherein the registration server provides enabled electronic communication devices with a list of potential peers with whom the enabled electronic communication device may open a channel of communication.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description when viewed in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which set forth certain embodiments of the invention.

The detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein. It should be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore the details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for teaching one skilled in the art how to make and or use the invention.

As will be appreciated based upon following disclosure and the various figures the present invention provides for connectivity between electronic communication devices through available technology at the time the connection is made. This can include technologies allowing for connectivity between electronic communication devices when the electronic communication devices are in close proximity such as LAN Wi Fi Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or when the electronic communication devices are located remotely from each other using Peer To Peer P2P technology over the Internet. The present invention also provides for the ability to seamlessly switch the connection methodology when a better one becomes available. e.g. remotely connected electronic communication devices that move into close proximity. Such a switch might be from P2P technology over the Internet to local Wi Fi. The present invention also provides the ability to simultaneously connect many devices and provide a framework for an arbitrary communication protocol between the connected electronic communication devices giving users of the present invention complete freedom to send any information whatsoever between the electronic communication devices.

As will be explained below in greater detail the present invention incorporates a specific implementation for sharing and controlling media playback that includes sharing of any media available to the electronic communication device. This includes media which is not local to the electronic communication device but to which the electronic communication device has access e.g. by being connected to a third electronic communication device . The present invention also provides for the ability to copy stream media either by PULL or PUSH methodology i.e. any electronic communication device can initiate the copy stream as well as the ability to control playback of media on a remote electronic communication device.

More particularly the present invention enables multiple electronic communication devices to establish a channel of communication amongst the electronic communication devices . The communication channel is created in a manner allowing the fastest communication amongst the electronic communication devices . For example if the electronic communication devices are in the same local communication network for example a Wi Fi zone or a LAN subnet the mode of communication provided by the local communication network will be employed. Otherwise the connection of the plurality of electronic communication devices is established on a global communication network using P2P technology.

It is appreciated that as Wi Fi Direct becomes more ubiquitous this will also become an option. It is appreciated that Wi Fi Direct is a Wi Fi standard enabling electronic communication devices to connect without the need for a wireless access point. This is achieved by embedding a software access point into any device supporting Wi Fi Direct. Using Wi Fi Direct multiple electronic communication devices can be connected simultaneously with each other and each connection will have its own communication channel.

As will be appreciated based upon the following disclosure the present invention also provides a framework for handling the communication protocol once the channel between the electronic communication devices is open. The users of this invention have complete freedom to create their own protocols and the established channel can be used for any purpose whatsoever.

This is accomplished using the present communication system or Dynamic Intelligent Content Network facilitating the establishment of a channel of communication for multiple enabled electronic communication devices . The system includes a registration server and a plurality of enabled electronic communication devices in communication with the registration server . Each of the plurality of enabled electronic communication devices is enabled for interaction with the registration server via an application programming interface API integrated into the enabled electronic communication devices . The API thus includes the following facilities 

In accordance with a preferred embodiment each of the plurality of electronic communication devices that are enabled for use in accordance with the present invention are provided with an application which includes the API that is computer software specifically adapted for implementing the procedural steps and functionalities associated with the present invention.

The system also includes a local communication network and a global communication network . In practice if the enabled electronic communication devices are in the local communication network the registration server working in conjunction with the applications on the enabled electronic communication devices establishes communication amongst the enabled electronic communication devices using the local communication network . If the enabled electronic communication devices are not in the local communication network the registration server establishes communication amongst the enabled electronic communication device using the global communication network .

With the foregoing in mind the present invention provides a Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . The Dynamic Intelligent Content Network is CONTENT centric enabling an electronic communication device connected to the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network to access any content that is stored or exposed on any other enabled electronic communication device also connected to the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . This effectively enables users to access any content anywhere provided the content is exposed to the network.

The client that is an electronic communication device operating the application under the control of a user of the present system interfaces to the registration server or engine of the present communication system via the API . From the client s point of view its world consists of peers that is other enabled electronic communication devices operating the application of users of the present communication system that can be connected into sessions. The client requests a list of peers through the API . Upon a user s request initiated from the user s electronic communication device the client requests via the API to connect to an identified peer to create a session. A client request to transfer media content is done by interacting through the API . It is the client s responsibility to manage the sessions terminating a session when appropriate.

The engine that is the registration server is capable of supporting multiple session connecting technologies such as P2P Peer To Peer Wi Fi Wi Di and DLNA. These technologies are supported in a generic fashion enabling the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network of the present invention to extend the technology to easily support other connection technologies.

In addition and as will be explained below the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network makes use of the registration server which is accessible to all clients that is all electronic communication device operating the application under the control of a user of the present system over the Internet. Clients register with the registration server which can then notify contacts that is peers of the client as to the client s presence on the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . Client searches for other potential contacts are done through the registration server .

It is appreciated that the connection of two clients of the present system may be more difficult based upon firewalls or routers running through network address translation which prevents direct connection between various enabled electronic communication devices .

However the present communication system incorporates software in the form of a P2P rendezvous server that supports industry standard protocols such as STUN Session Traversal Utilities for NAT TURN Traversal Using Relay NAT and ICE Interactive Connectivity Establishment . Support for these protocols guarantees firewall and network address translation traversal in nearly one hundred percent of all cases. With this in mind a carrier strength P2P rendezvous server is used to facilitate network address translation.

It is appreciated P2P rendezvous server employs a protocol allowing a client to locate a peer and establish a communication session with that peer. Once the peer is located the session is established. Such P2P rendezvous server functionalities are well known in the art and standard operating conventions will be employed in accordance with the present invention.

Once the communication channel is established whether it be via a local communication network or a global communication network clients may view all content on any peer electronic communication device that is connected to it via a session based on the application of the peer electronic communication device giving permission and exposing such content. Therefore it will be possible to transfer copy files to from each enabled electronic communication device and stream media from enabled electronic communication device to enabled electronic communication device without making a copy. It is appreciated that there are no limitations from that standpoint of the present system as the permissions that a client may place upon the content and the interaction of others with the content. Ultimately it depends on how the software using the technology works that is it is an application decision and the underlying technology just allows transfer viewing streaming of what the other client application allows. As explained below in greater detail once one or more enabled electronic communication devices are connected in a session through the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network any session member has full access to all content and file types on any or all of the connected enabled electronic communication devices that those connected enabled electronic communication devices have deemed possible to access. Consequently the owner of the enabled communication device can control which content is exposed. Individual content items or groups of items may be completely private or completely public. Additionally individual items or groups of items can be designated for sharing with particular peers or groups of peers.

To accomplish this the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network is totally agnostic to the data network to which it is connected and instead looks for other electronic communication devices that are enabled for interaction via the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . It is further appreciated that the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network can also connect enabled electronic communication devices that run on different operating systems.

Once one or more enabled electronic communication devices are connected in a session through the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network any session member has full access to all content and file types on any or all of the connected enabled electronic communication devices that those connected enabled electronic communication devices have deemed possible to access and can 

That is the user can view play the files without having to copy the file s copy the files and even move or delete the files on any all of the enabled electronic communication devices connected to the session via the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . In other words connected enabled electronic communication devices can simultaneously access local content and functionality as well as remotely access any content available to any other connected enabled electronic communication device . Also connected electronic communication devices can control any other connected electronic communication device . For example the present system may be utilized in sharing documents photos music videos contacts calendar events notes SMS and or MMS. Furthermore the present system may be used to manipulate such data on the remote enabled electronic communication device by modifying it and controlling media playback viewing.

As a result the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network enables all of the following capabilities 

Referring to the various components of the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network in accordance with the present invention are disclosed. In particular the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network connects various enabled electronic communication devices for example a computer a cellular phone a tablet computer a Lync box a television set and a NAS drive all on the same Wi Fi network . Similarly the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network connects a computer a cellular phone a tablet computer a Lync box a television set and a NAS drive all on the same LAN network .

The Dynamic Intelligent Content Network also connects remote enabled electronic communication devices for example a computer cellular phone and a tablet computer via a global communication network for example a general Internet network using the registration server . As will be better appreciated based upon the following disclosure when a Dynamic Intelligent Content Network enabled electronic communication device starts up it will inform the registration server .

It is appreciated the computer is a regular desktop or laptop computer and can be either Macintosh Windows Linux. The computer behaves as both a server and a server client in the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network as it can both publish its own content to other enabled electronic communication devices or consume content from other connected enabled electronic communication devices.

The cellular phone is for example an iPhone Android phone or Windows 8 phone. Once again the cell phone can connect either over a Wi Fi network or across the Internet . The cell phone can behave as both a server and server client as described above.

The tablet computer is an enabled electronic communication device such as an iPad or Android tablet or Windows 8 tablet. Once again the tablet computer can be used as both a server client and a server in the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network of the present invention.

The Lync Box is a computer device that is typically connected as an external device to a television set through an HDMI cable. Lync Box is a proprietary name for a computing device that interfaces wirelessly between a device that has system software installed and the TV or any device with a screen and an HDMI connector that can display digital media files. The Lync Box can be an Android or Linux computer or any computing device that runs the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network software on it. The aim is typically but not restricted to that the Lync Box will act as a client application as described above. This implies that other Dynamic Intelligent Content Network electronic communication devices will send content either from their own enabled electronic communication device or from another Dynamic Intelligent Content Network electronic communication devices to the Lync Box and that the Lync Box will then act as a server client to display that content. It is appreciated that the Lync Box can be embedded inside the television set .

The NAS Network Attached Storage drive is typically a computer that contains and manages a hard disk on a network that supplies the content on that hard disk to computers in the network. The Dynamic Intelligent Content Network can run on a NAS drive in such a situation. In this situation the NAS drive will act as a Dynamic Intelligent Content Network Server. This implies that it will only publish its content to other Dynamic Intelligent Content Network electronic communication devices but not consume content from other electronic communication devices.

All the enabled electronic communication devices that have been described in this section can work in the framework of the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network either through a Wi Fi network a LAN network or through the general Internet network or any combination. If connecting to electronic communication devices through the Internet network it is essential that connection first be performed through the registration server .

In particular and with reference to upon the initiation of the application operating the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network in accordance with the present invention upon the electronic communication device the user s electronic communication device that is Device logs onto the registration server . Simultaneously the user s electronic communication Device under the control of the application broadcasts its presence to alert other electronic communication devices enabled for utilization on the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network . After logging onto the registration server the registration server provides the electronic communication Device with a list of buddies as potential peers that is other enabled electronic communication devices operating the application of users of the present communication system that can be connected into sessions with whom the electronic communication Device may open a communication channel. It is appreciated that each electronic communication device is assigned a unique ID and the list of buddies provided to Device includes the unique ID for each buddy on the provided list. This list of buddies is stored within the memory of the enabled electronic communication Device by the application

Upon the designation by the user of an intent to contact a peer provided on the list of buddies the user s enabled electronic Device will identify whether the peer is within a local network or within a global network . This is achieved by simply surveying the local network to identify electronic devices currently on the network in a manner known to those skilled in the art. Briefly the identification is achieved by assigning each electronic communication device a unique ID. The ID of the peer electronic communication device returned by the registration server is then matched against the broadcasted ID s of the electronic communication devices in the same Wi Fi network. If a match is found the peer electronic communication device is located within the Wi Fi network and the connection is made by Wi Fi. If the peer is not located within a Wi Fi network or LAN network in close proximity to the user s electronic communication Device the user s electronic communication Device will connect with the peer for example user electronic communication Device with its own memory and application utilizing the registration server and P2P rendezvous server by employing P2P technology.

However and as the user moves with his or her user electronic communication Device the user may move into a new Wi Fi network in proximity with electronic communication Device . In particular the application is programmed to broadcast the presences of the user s enabled electronic communication Device each time it enters a new Wi Fi network or LAN . As such and once the application running on the user s electronic communication Device recognizes that it is in a new Wi Fi network it will once again broadcast its presence. Upon the broadcast of the user s electronic communication Device within the new Wi Fi zone the fact that electronic communication Device is within Wi Fi zone is recognized and the user s enabled electronic communication Device determines it is within the same Wi Fi zone as electronic communication Device . As the user s electronic Device and electronic communication Device are within the same Wi Fi network the application closes or disconnects the P2P communication channel and the communication channel via the Wi Fi network is opened.

As explained above when a Dynamic Intelligent Content Network electronic communication device starts up it will inform the registration server that it is alive and on the network . The registration server will retain this information in its own internal database so that when other enabled electronic communication devices would like to connect to this enabled electronic communication device the other enabled electronic communication devices will also go and register with the registration server as previously described and collect information from the registration server that is stored within the memory of the enabled electronic communication device to help establish this connection. Once the connection between two enabled electronic communication devices has been established then all the server client server functionality described above can take place. The data maintained by the registration server is structured in a hierarchy associating each user with all of their electronic communication devices. The record for a specific electronic communication device requires at least the following fields Device name unique device ID internes address information for use by the rendezvous server and whether the device is online or not. It also needs to maintain the list of users that have agreed to be buddies with each other. With this information applications implementing the present invention have knowledge of all of a user s buddies and electronic communication devices and whether each electronic communication device is online or not.

The idea is that each of the components can communicate with each other in the manner described above either via a Wi Fi network LAN network or over the Internet . When operating in the Wi Fi network or the LAN network the enabled electronic communication devices will directly connect to each other and recognize each other s presence automatically with the assistance of the registration server which as described above functions upon the initiation of the application on the electronic communication device to provide the electronic communication device with a list of buddies as potential peers. When operating through the Internet the connection will be performed using the registration server for identification.

The aims of the enabled electronic communication devices in the network described above are for both consumption of content from other enabled electronic communication devices in the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network or publishing of its own content to other enabled electronic communication devices in the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network .

The way this content is accessed by other enabled electronic communication devices is in one of three ways 

The types of components that may exist in the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network are but not limited to those enabled electronic communication devices shown in . Each of these enabled electronic communication devices with the exception of the NAS drive can act either as a server an enabled electronic communication device that publishes its own content or content accessible to it for others to access or as a server client an enabled electronic communication device that accesses content from other servers in the Dynamic Intelligent Content Network or both.

Referring to a sequence diagram showing the interaction between the components needed to connect two enabled electronic communication devices which are respective peers of each other over a Wi Fi or LAN network 

Upon startup all enabled electronic communication devices through the application running on the enabled electronic communication devices begin a sequence of User Datagram Protocol broadcasts or multicasts to announce their presence. These messages can continue infinitely or for a limited time. A peer receiving one of these messages will know that another Dynamic Intelligent Content Network enabled electronic communication device exists on the system and at this point each peer is aware of the other s presence and has sufficient information about each other to connect if desired. With the peers presence established one of the peers for example Peer A can query Peer B for its functional properties and decide to connect to it. This is achieved by Peer A sending a connection request.

Optionally an exchange of authentication information may be required for the connection. If such is required Peer B responds with an authentication request followed by an authentication response by Peer B.

Upon connection a TCP socket connection is established and the channel for communication between the peers is established. It is appreciated that connection implies sharing all the content and access to all the functionality allowable between the peers. The connection can be dependent on the exchange of authentication information.

Referring to a sequence diagram showing the interaction between the components needed to connect two peers over the Internet is provided. In particular Peer A first logs into the system via the registration server and Peer B also logs into the system via the same registration server . Thereafter the rendezvous server implements the STUN TURN and ICE protocols for NAT traversal as discussed above. After Peer A and Peer B have logged into the system the registration server identifies that Peer A wishes to connect with Peer B. With this in mind Peer A and Peer B are connected via transfer from the server of each other s buddy data . In particular the rendezvous server performs the Peer To Peer matching to punch holes through Peer A s and Peer B s network address translation. In the end the rendezvous server notifies Peer A of the IP address and port needed to connect directly to Peer B behind the network address translation. With Peer A and Peer B connected the TCP socket connects Peer A to Peer B directly.

As mentioned above the present Dynamic Intelligent Content Network is user centric. It can be used to associate a number of electronic communication devices with a single user which has ramifications for content aggregation. With reference to a hypothetical user interface in accordance with the present invention is shown. Where the user requests a list all of its buddies the enabled electronic device will might show the interface of based upon information received from the registration server . This means that the local user can see two buddies User A and User B that is the electronic communication devise s of User A and User B . However and from the local user s point of view he she is dealing with people User A and User B not electronic communication devices.

If in accordance with the present invention and with reference to the user tree is expanded it is apparent the present invention allows for the identification of all enabled electronic communication devices associated with the User A a DLNA server a Linux Desktop a Mobile Device and a Windows Desktop and User B a Mobile Device and a Windows Desktop .

The point is that because the present system requires enabled electronic communication devices to log in in association with a person the registration server groups all of a user s enabled electronic communication devices under his her username thus giving a person or user centric feel to the content management. It is however appreciated the local user may select a specific electronic communication device to connect to but the default can be to connect to a person leaving it up to the present system to decide which enabled electronic communication device to connect to.

As a corollary to this the present system may present a user with all of their own enabled electronic communication devices . This has ramifications for example in allowing a user to connect to their own enabled electronic communication device without requiring authentication.

Consider two users of the present system residing in the same corporate office or home environment. When each user begins executing their respective enabled electronic communication devices will register with the registration server . If they are mutually authenticated they will see each other as peers their technical means of connectivity is via P2P technology. In parallel however their enabled electronic communication devices will discover that they both reside on the same Wi Fi network . The present system will therefore see them once again as peers this time potentially connected via the Wi Fi network . The point is that the present system prefers to use the more efficient and economical means of connectivity. In the case above it prefers to use the Wi Fi connection for media management rather than the more expensive P2P method using the Internet.

Should one of the peers exit the Wi Fi network e.g. leaving the building the present system will switch seamlessly to the next means of connectivity e.g. P2P .

With reference to once the connection is established any content Peer A wishes to share will be visible by Peer B. This can include content local to the enabled electronic communication device content on Peer A s social networks or content on other owned or connected enabled electronic communication devices belonging to Peer A.

Content from different sources can be published as separate units or aggregated into one big list. shows one example how music information is shared between peers. In particular Peer A indicates a desire to review a music list from Peer B. The size of the music list is first transmitted to Peer A. Thereafter the metadata of the requested tracks is forwarded to Peer A. Steps two and three are repeated until the request list is finished. The same applies for all content types. All metadata can be made available to the requesting peer.

Existing media streaming technology is used to enable a connected enabled electronic communication device to play content stored on another electronic communication device without copying the file. Media is played on the local enabled electronic communication device using the enabled electronic communication device s native media players and CODECs.

Besides having a view of each other s content and streaming media each peer given the correct permissions can manipulate its peer s content. This may include streaming and file transfer download . These activities are called PULL as Peer A is pulling the content from Peer B.

A unique feature of the present system resides in the fact that over and above PULL functionality Peer A can initiate activities on Peer B. Examples of this would be telling Peer B to play a track with complete playback control or uploading a file to Peer B. The track can reside in Peer A s or Peer B s content domain. This type of functionality is called PUSH .

Examples of PULL vs. PUSH can be seen in the subtle difference between the two block diagrams of streaming media shown in . More particularly Peer A transmits a Get Streaming URL request. This request asks Peer B for a URL identifying the location of streaming information. Peer B responds with a transmission of a return streaming message providing an HTTP compliant URL. Peer A then contacts the web server of Peer B with the HTTP compliant URL and Peer A initiates his or her own media player with the URL. Thereafter the media player of Peer A provides a streaming request to the HTTP compliant URL associated with Peer B web server and Peer B web server will stream the data to Peer A media player. The final streaming step is continued until the file is complete or until a response or action on the part of Peer A to end the streaming.

In accordance with this mechanism Peer A transmits a message for Peer B to play my file. The transmission provides Peer B with the HTTP compatible URL to Peer A s local file for the data at hand. With this information in hand Peer B contacts the Peer B media player with the URL and the Peer B media player sends a streaming request to the URL of the Peer A web server. Thereafter Peer A web server will stream data to Peer B media player. With regard to control of the music Peer A transmits a control media playback signal relating to various actions that may be taken via the Peer B media player. These actions may include start pause position stop volume etc. These actions are transmitted from Peer A to the Peer B media player in conjunction with a get playback information request. The playback information request is obtained by transmitting current media position volume state from Peer B to Peer A.

The above diagram also shows that the present system offers the ability to control media playback on a remotely connected electronic communication device enabled for use in accordance with the present invention. Besides the ability to PUSH media content as described above full control of play pause stop volume level and playback position is an integral part of the present system.

Since the entire system is in essence a server client server relationship the server can be completely in the background without any interference to the user in the normal operation of their enabled electronic communication device . Peer A can thus be viewing streaming and transferring content to and from Peer B while Peer B is totally immersed in another activity on their enabled electronic communication device .

As mentioned above the software required for enabling an electronic communication device to function in conjunction with the present system may be embedded on any enabled electronic communication device that has access to the LAN or Wi Fi network and optionally access to the Internet for the full P2P feature set. This allows the present system to drive the following electronic communication device types 

Both of these electronic communication device types can optionally transparently connect to any or all electronic communication devices in a Dynamic Intelligent Content Network without a need for authentication.

It is also appreciated that aside from using the technology described above in accordance with the present invention on computers mobile phones and tablets the technology may also be implemented in cable set top boxes and Internet routers that connect to TV sets so that the TV set can access and play all the content that sits on any other electronic communication device that has been connected.

Over and above the specific dynamic intelligent content network capabilities the present system provides OEMs original equipment manufacturers with applications that help move a user s content from any device location to anywhere else. In conjunction with this endeavor the present invention provides unique solutions that allow one to facilitate access management control and transfer of content from electronic communication device to electronic communication device . The present invention enables any two electronic communication devices of any kind to connect to each other no matter where they are as long as the electronic communication devices are connected to a network that can be communicated with.

While the preferred embodiments have been shown and described it will be understood that there is no intent to limit the invention by such disclosure but rather is intended to cover all modifications and alternate constructions falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

