---

title: Methods and apparatus for managing data relating to potentially changing conditions of multiple subjects
abstract: Some embodiments are directed to a computer program for facilitating management and processing of data relating to changing conditions of multiple subjects involved in a government-sponsored social program. The computer program is configured for implementation by a processor to display multiple subjects, which form a group of subjects involved in the government-sponsored social program, in one of a column and row format. Multiple requirements, which each are required to be satisfied within a certain deadline pursuant to the government-sponsored social program, are displayed in the other of the column and row format, such that the displayed multiple subjects and multiple requirements form a matrix. One of multiple identifiers, which are displayed at each of the intersections of the matrix, each indicate status of the requirement relevant to the associated subject, each of the multiple identifiers being visually unique to enable identification of the relevant status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501464&OS=09501464&RS=09501464
owner: CLEVEREX SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09501464
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140325
---
Some of the disclosed embodiments relate to methods and apparatus for managing data relating to potentially changing conditions of multiple subjects. Some of these embodiments are disclosed in the context of managing data relating to separate individuals and in some cases a large number of individuals involved in government supported social programs. However embodiments are intended to cover or otherwise apply the disclosed methods and apparatus of data management in any other beneficial context including data relating to individuals involved in other activities or programs or even data relating to groupings of any number of things that are subject to any type of potentially changing conditions.

The tracking of changing conditions of individuals involved in government controlled social programs often involves the management of a tremendous amount of data. For example in the United States Head Start HS and Community Action Program CAP constitute two programs that affect or otherwise involve a large number of separate individuals. Both of these programs are discussed in more detail below for the purpose of providing context to the task of data management.

Both HS and CAP are funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and eligibility for aid from these programs is based on the federal poverty guidelines i.e. family income number of family members etc. HS focuses solely on children while CAP focuses on families such as to provide money for food energy food stamps etc. Each of these programs is discussed below.

HS targets low income people and is organized and formed within 1 school districts 2 city governments 3 county governments 4 non profit organizations i.e. catholic charities etc. Most HS organizations are urban but there are also a number located in rural areas. Most HS organizations are independently formed non profit organizations for the sole purpose of pursuing HS.

HS only covers pre school birth to 5 years old and after that the children attend public school. Some benefits of HS are based on studies showing that people are ultimately more successful if they attend pre school. Early HS started in the mid 1990s covers children from birth to 3 years old and traditional HS started in 1964 covers children 3 5 years old.

HS was initiated in 1964 as part of President Johnson s war on poverty. It began as a summer camp and originally solely involved teaching children to read and write. However HS currently involves many more subjects and is a comprehensive child development program covering language and literacy cognition and general knowledge physical development and health social and emotional development and approaches to learning. A significant HS goal is to break the cycle of poverty.

Family interviews can also be held to assess conditions at the home. HS has developed procedures to help build a better family environment i.e. assess the family s needs their strengths etc. and prepares a family partnership agreement FPA . This procedure thereby helps to provide a comprehensive child development plan. The program is designed to first determine the family s needs needs assessment and then works with the family as a partner to provide a nurturing environment for the child.

HS especially focuses on outcomes i.e. how well the program is working. HS s outcome focused methodology is at least partially responsible for it becoming the most successful social services program and is supported by both Democrats and Republicans in the U.S.

In order to form a HS organization a proposal needs to be submitted to the federal government which includes a plan of how to recruit families i.e. children . Most HS organizations are formed for the sole purpose of promoting HS. Once formed the federal government provides money to fund the HS organization which constitutes a large majority of the operating budget and attending participating in HS is free.

There are approximately 2000 3000 separate HS organizations grantees and delegates currently operating in the United States. A typical HS organization serves 100 500 families children . There are typically 15 17 children per classroom and 10 20 classrooms per HS organization. Each classroom has one teacher and one assistant teacher. A family advocate also works with the teachers but from a different perspective i.e. the advocate monitors the children s health and the family environment. Each advocate covers 1 2 classrooms and visits the homes 1 2 times per year.

A typical HS organization begins as a grantee and there are approximately 1600 grantee organizations currently operating in the United States. However a HS organization may also be formed as a delegate agency that tags on to an existing grantee s proposal and there are approximately 3000 delegate agencies currently operating in the United States. Each delegate agency is separate from its corresponding grantee. For example New York City s government is a grantee with 100 200 separate associated delegate agencies throughout the city. The grantee receives federal grants to cover fund the associated delegate agencies. A mandatory on site review is required every three years.

Each grantee or delegate agency receives approximately 1M 3M a year in funding and thus the entire HS program covering the entire United States receives approximately 9B 10B in funding per year. Approximately 80 of the funding is provided by the federal government and the remainder approximately 20 is provided by private local sources i.e. private sponsors and in kind donations.

The United States includes a few hundred CAP organizations. CAP only focuses on the family and includes the following programs 1 Weatherization Program seals doors windows etc. such as to prevent cold air from entering the home in winter 2 Energy Program pays the electric bill and 3 Food Pantry Program provides food.

The following Directors report to the Content Manager Mental Health Director Psychologist Director of Physical Health Nurse and Disabilities Director Nurse who checks hearing vision and learning issues . These Directors mainly work with the Family Advocates i.e. the Family Advocate requests that the relevant Director observe a certain child to provide a diagnosis who may then refer the child to a doctor etc. For example the Mental Health Director may refer the child to a local psychologist to obtain a professional diagnosis. The Disabilities Director may refer a child to a local school system which will then prepare an individual education plan IEP for the referred child.

A new grantee for HS needs to recruit preschool children and may advertise such as by using flyers billboards newspapers events etc. to get the word out. Low income families apply for admission by filling out an application form to determine whether they are eligible i.e. income criteria amount of income per family member and age criteria need to be 5 years old or younger .

The two stages related to entry into the program that are relevant are intake and enrollment which are discussed below.

Intake begins by entering an application form. The goal of a typical HS agency is to serve 200 500 children.

At intake the agency may receive a greater number of application forms than children that the agency can enroll e.g. the agency may have 200 funded slots but at intake the center may receive 300 application forms requesting enrollment. In this case the application forms must typically be prioritized in order to determine which applications to accept and this prioritization is accomplished using prioritization software which uses a weighting system based on a pre defined criteria such as amount of income age etc. The prioritization software thereby ranks the children.

However prioritization is not needed in some cases. For example in extremely poor and isolated areas such as at the Texas Mexico border everyone is such a good candidate because of poverty etc. that applicants are admitted on a first come first served basis instead of using prioritization.

In some other cases an agency s capacity may exceed the actual number of application forms received e.g. the agency may have 200 funded slots but may only receive 150 applications. In this case the agency is allowed to enroll a certain percentage of kids who are above the poverty line. However the families income can never exceed 30 above the poverty line.

A number of federal rules become effective once a child is enrolled in HS i.e. enrolled in a Classroom. These rules are in the form of 30 day 45 day and 90 day requirements which are summarized as follows 1 30 day requirements e.g. paperwork must be completed confirmation of child s accessibility to medical insurance typically Medicaid 2 45 day requirements e.g. must complete child s sensory screening vision and hearing and 3 90 day requirements e.g. child must have a physical examination which includes a referral needs to have been made to a doctor the parents need to be informed that they need to take the child to a doctor for a physical examination the medical examination needs to have been conducted and the parents must provide HS with a copy of the completed examination form.

However the HS center may attempt to exceed the above requirements go above and beyond such as by satisfying the 90 requirements within 45 days satisfying the 45 requirements within 30 days etc. If a center attempts to exceed the requirements in this manner then the new rules apply to all applicants who are enrolled.

The health events are based on each state s recommended EPSDT Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment schedule. However many agencies use the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended EPSDT schedule in practice. This schedule provides a guideline for children to receive appropriate health screening diagnosis and treatment based on age.

Software tracks all services provided via HS and CAP such as immunization schedules CAP related activities e.g. winterizing house etc. The software allows each center to automate and manage its business processes i.e. intake prioritization enrollment federal mandates 30 45 and 90 day requirements needs assessments service planning family services child health adult health referrals classroom attendance classroom observation outcome transition management etc.

The disclosed systems and methods including software can be used for other agencies beyond HS and CAP such as any human services organization that provides services to people in need. Software can track both services provided and outcomes which can be important to determine the programs effectiveness.

The accurate and efficient management of this data is especially important for various other reasons such as because of the vulnerability of the individuals enrolled the strict budgets available to fund the programs etc. However related art methods and systems including software fail to sufficiently address issues relating to at least one of accuracy efficiency and ease of use. The related art also fails to enhance the user s ability to understand manipulate and or otherwise use the data.

For example related art systems focus on entering data and generating static reports. In order for HS managers or other users to monitor overall aspects e.g. the big picture of their operation they are required to generate reports. These reports are typically printed on paper and thus the printed data rapidly becomes obsolete such as in a matter of hours or days.

A separate issue with the related art technology relates to the fact that various requirements such as those from the federal government local government and other agencies are hard coded inside the software and reports which creates an inherent inflexibility. For example the software and reports must be re designed and or rewritten once these requirements change which creates inefficiencies.

Thus some of the related art methods and apparatus including software are subject to at one of the following limitations 1 user difficulty in monitoring overall aspects of the operation while entering data 2 printing reports provides access to overall aspects of the operation but not on a real time basis i.e. the data quickly becomes obsolete and 3 the software and reports must be re designed and or rewritten once the federal government local government and agency requirements change. It therefore may be advantageous to provide methods and apparatus for managing data relating to potentially changing conditions that address at least one of the above issues or deficiencies of the related art technology.

Some of the disclosed embodiments therefore address at least one of the above issues. Thus some of the disclosed embodiments enable the monitoring of overall aspects of the operation big picture on a real time or substantially real time basis. Some of these embodiments enable this monitoring during data entry or the performance of routine monitoring tasks. Some of these embodiments integrate monitoring with data entry or data update on one screen thereby enabling users to perform monitoring tasks and data entry or update tasks on one screen. Alternatively or in addition to the above some of the embodiments facilitate system reconfigurations which may be beneficial upon the change of requirements to enable the disclosed methods and apparatus to satisfy the new monitoring requirements.

A few inventive aspects of these embodiments are summarized in more detail below. However the below summary of inventive aspects is merely provided for exemplary purposes and is not intended as an exhaustive listing of separate inventive aspects or a complete explanation of all features of the listed inventive aspects. For example the below summary categorizes some of the inventive aspects as follows 1 Workbook Monitoring with Integrated Data Entry Update 2 Program Outcomes Portal POP Monitoring with Integrated Data Entry Update and 3 Event and Event Schedule Builder. However these categorizations are merely provided for exemplary purposes and are not intended to be limiting. For example some of the disclosed embodiments may not necessarily be amenable to being categorized in only one of these contexts e.g. some embodiments can be categorized in multiple of these contexts while other embodiments may not be categorized in any of these contexts.

Some embodiments are directed to a computer program for facilitating management and processing of data relating to changing conditions of multiple subjects involved in a government sponsored social program. The computer program is configured for implementation by a processor to display multiple subjects which form a group of subjects involved in the government sponsored social program in one of a column and row format. Multiple requirements which each are required to be satisfied within a certain deadline pursuant to the government sponsored social program are displayed in the other of the column and row format such that the displayed multiple subjects and multiple requirements form a matrix. One of multiple identifiers which are displayed at each of the intersections of the matrix each indicate status of the requirement relevant to the associated subject each of the multiple identifiers being visually unique to enable identification of the relevant status. The program is configured to enable additional data to be entered relating to one of the subjects requirements and status indications upon selection of the corresponding identifier.

Some embodiments are directed to a non transitory computer readable storage medium that stores a computer program for facilitating management and processing of data relating to changing conditions of multiple subjects involved in a government sponsored social program. The computer program including instructions that when executed on a computer cause the computer to perform a series of operations including displaying multiple subjects which form a group of subjects involved in the government sponsored social program in one of a column and row format. Multiple requirements which each are required to be satisfied within a certain deadline pursuant to the government sponsored social program are displayed in the other of the column and row format such that the displayed multiple subjects and multiple requirements form a matrix. One of multiple identifiers which are displayed at each of the intersections of the matrix each indicate status of the requirement relevant to the associated subject each of the multiple identifiers being visually unique to enable identification of the relevant status. The program is configured to enable additional data to be entered relating to one of the subjects requirements and status indications upon selection of the corresponding identifier.

Some of the disclosed embodiments enable a user such as a manager to monitor or otherwise determine whether the status of any event of any client in any group of clients is current or alternatively whether the associated deadline is approaching or past due. In some embodiments the grouping of clients can be constituted as a caseload classroom or any customized group. However embodiments are intended to be applied in the context of any other groupings of clients.

Some embodiments uniquely represent the different status indications such as via a display using unique identifiers. For example a green flag can be used to represent any current event a yellow flag for an upcoming event or deadline i.e. impending deadline a red flag for any past due event a blue flag for an past due but remedied event etc. However these identifiers are merely provided for exemplary purposes and embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type configuration and or color of identifier that enables easy effective efficient and or quick status identification.

In accordance with some embodiments a user can select a certain identifier such as a flag to enable the performance of various operations. For example selecting an identifier may provide access to a certain form for entering corresponding data. In some embodiments this identification opens a form that is related to the selected status and or event which facilitates user friendliness of the system.

In accordance with some embodiments a screen is displayed for a user providing the user s caseload such as a caseload including a certain number of children. A certain identifier such as a green flag can be used to indicate that health events for a certain child are current or up to date while another distinguishable identifier such as a red flag can be used to indicate past due events. A different identifier such as a yellow flag can be used to indicate events with impending deadlines such as events that are due within 30 days of her enrollment into HS program.

This screen which can be referred to as a Workbook screen is beneficial because it provides the user such as a HS manager with a real time monitoring capability which enables the manager to identify the overall status of all children in the caseload or any other group at a glance. The HS manager can thereby recognize that most of the caseload is current while about 10 of the events are past due and the deadlines for a few events are approaching. The screen can be used for other purposes such as by being exported out to a PDF file printed as communication is needed etc.

This screen can provide the user with the ability to change the type of identifiers. As one example legends with icons can be provided such that selection of one of the icons determines the type of identifier. For example icons can be provided to select between 1 colored flags 2 grayscale flags or 3 other grayscale or colored symbols. Users can choose the appropriate icon for personal or situational preferences. For example the grayscale flags or other symbols may be appropriate for printing the screen to a black and white printer while colored flags or other symbols may be appropriate for printing to a color printer.

Some of the above embodiments enable a user such as an HS manager to update or enter new data in order to update a child s status for an event. For example a user such as a HS manager may recognize that a certain child has had Medicaid in place since a certain date but failed to update the system. The user is able to obtain this information by disposing the cursor at the red flag of the event at issue e.g. Medical Insurance. For example disposing the cursor on or in the vicinity of the red flag at issue provides the user with relevant information such as the fact that Medicaid has been in place for this child since a certain date but the system has erroneously not been updated.

The system is then configured to enable the HS manager to select the red flag under the Medical Insurance column for this child for the purpose of updating or entering new data. Upon such a selection the system is configured to open up a data entry form for the HS manager to enable the HS manager to enter the missing data. The HS manager is then provided with the opportunity to enter the appropriate data i.e. Medicaid effective at a certain date and to then close the data form.

The system is configured to automatically update the Workbook monitoring screen. For example the screen can be updated to show that the child s Medical Insurance event is now current as indicated by a new green flag.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to enable users to receive alerts such as via any medium including but not limited to email text messaging SMS etc. depending on the status. For example these alerts can be transmitted and or received if certain deadlines are approaching coming soon and or missed past due . Some of these or other embodiments enable the alerts to be transmitted and or received at predetermined intervals such as daily weekly or monthly. Some of the Emails sent to users are automatically documented.

In accordance with some of the above and or other embodiments methods and systems are configured to enable users such as administrators to customize the Workbook such as to display or not display certain columns and or other information including information relevant to the alerts discussed above. In some embodiments certain users such as administrators and or managers can determine the events to be monitored and or the recipients of certain information such as the recipients of the event alerts for events with impending deadlines or deadlines that are past due.

A setting button can be provided to allow administrators and or managers to set 1 the events to be monitored and 2 the recipients of the event alerts for events with impending deadlines or deadlines that are past due. For example the system can be configured to enable the users or only certain users to select the setting button.

Selection of the setting button results in a display of a list of all events that can be monitored. The user is then provided with the ability to determine the events to be monitored or not monitored. For example a box can be provided adjacent to each event. Selecting the box results in the adjacent event being monitored while not selecting the box results in the adjacent event not being monitored. The selection can be made via a check mark which can be added or removed by selecting the box with the cursor. The users are thereby enabled to select or deselect an event.

As indicated above in addition or as an alternative to determining the events to be monitored some systems are configured to enable the user to determine the recipient of certain or all alerts and or the amount of information provided to certain recipients. As one example the system can be configured to enable certain users such as administrators to manipulate certain settings to determine which user groups receive which alerts whether the alert s should include a detailed participants listing etc.

In accordance with some embodiments alert settings can be manipulated by the user. For example all users in a certain user group can be designated to receive alerts on certain events such as Developmental Assessment and Physical Exam with detailed participants listings.

However the methods and systems of other embodiments can be configured in other ways to provide access to certain amounts of data depending of the user. For example some systems and methods may automatically show hide certain rows or columns or certain data in certain rows and or columns based on each user s level of access.

Some embodiments are configured to control user access using a two dimensional structure including organizational access and content access. The organizational access dimension determines which part of the organizational tree the user can access. The content access dimension determines what content information the user can access. For example both user A and user B can access the Physical Exam content which is an example of the content access dimension. However user A s organizational access is limited to Center A while user B s organizational access is not limited to Center B which is an example of the organizational access dimension. Therefore user A can only access children s Physical Exam content event in Center A but not Center B s children. However user B can access children s Physical Exam content event in both centers A and B.

Some aspects of these embodiments are discussed in more detail below in the context of the following Program Outcomes Portal POP section.

In accordance with some embodiments the systems and methods are configured to enable some users such as agency managers to monitor the above and or other operations on a real time or substantially real time basis such as on a more macro level. This feature enables users to identify update or otherwise determine a number of aspects of the data including but not limited to 1 events that are current and or deadlines that are approaching or past due such as on the agency level and 2 the status of each business process. In addition these users can perform data entry or update information on a participant s data form. This integration of data entry with monitoring applies to the classroom level as well as to the macro level.

Some embodiments uniquely represent the different status indications such as via a display using the unique identifiers disclosed above. For example as in the above examples a green flag can be used to represent any current event a yellow flag for an upcoming event or deadline a red flag for any past due event and a blue flag for a past due but remedied event.

This feature can be used or otherwise applied in any beneficial context such as in contexts other than the caseload contexts disclosed above. This feature can be used with Federal Local Mandates EPSDT Immunization ERSEA Mental Health Dental Health Physical Medical Tests Medical Conditions Nutrition Disability CLASS and or Staff Check List Training Education Certification Licenses .

In one example a user such as a HS manager can quickly gather important program information such as but not limited to information relating to the enrolled participants of the entire agency. The user can easily determine the rough percentage of the participants that are current approaching deadlines past due and remedied past due dates. The mandatory events are grouped by the length of the grace period such as 30 day 45 day and 90 day grace periods. These grace periods are determined by the federal government state government and agency and can be configured by the agency which is discussed in more detail in the context of Events and Events Schedule Builder. In other words for each of the events discussed above the screen provides a breakdown for all of the participants within a certain group.

This feature can be implemented using any operations. For example in accordance with some embodiments a user can select any of the numbers displayed on the Program Outcomes Portal POP such as any of the numbers displayed adjacent to any of the flags discussed above. This selection enables the user to obtain access to a detailed clients listing for that category such as all reds flags for Medical Home.

The methods and systems of some embodiments are configured to enable a user to obtain breakdowns of some or all of the above information in the contexts of different levels of the overall structure of the organization. For example the user can obtain breakdowns of the data by the agency organization structure from the top delegate sub contractor centers to classrooms and caseloads.

In accordance with some embodiments this operation is performed by selecting the symbol adjacent the desired type of information. The system allows users to break down any of these agency level numbers by the agency s organizational structure. Specifically if a user selects the symbol adjacent the Medical Home category a display is provided in which the relevant numbers are distributed among the agency s delegate locations centers and classrooms.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to provide access to certain amounts of this data. Thus the methods and systems of some embodiments are configured to enable a user such as an administrator to customize the POP to show or hide certain columns.

In some embodiments this operation is performed by selecting a Setting button. Thus users such as administrators can select the checkbox to show or hide a category and click the up down arrows to control the display order.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to enable users to receive alerts such as via any medium including but not limited to email text messaging SMS etc. depending on the status. For example these alerts can be transmitted and or received if certain deadlines are approaching coming soon and or missed Past due . Some of these or other embodiments enable the alerts to be transmitted and or received at predetermined intervals such as daily weekly or monthly.

Some of the alerts sent by email to users are automatically documented in the system. The determination as to which user groups receive alerts is initiated by selecting an Alert button to pop up a window. The administrator can determine which user groups receive alerts on which categories of events and whether to receive the detailed listing.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to provide access to certain amounts of data depending on the user. For example the systems and methods may automatically show hide certain rows or columns or certain data in certain rows and or columns based on each user s level of access.

The system controls user access using a two dimensional structure including organizational access and content access. The organizational access dimension determines which part of the organizational tree the user can access. The content access dimension determines what content information the user can access. For example both user A and user B can access the Physical Exam content. However user A s organizational access is limited to the Center B while user A s organizational access is limited to the Center B. Therefore user A can only access children s Physical Exam content event in Center A but not Center B s children. Also vice versa user B can only access children s Physical Exam content event in Center B but not Center A s children.

In accordance with some embodiments the systems and methods are configured to enable users to build their own events and event schedulers. In some of these embodiments the event includes a series of occurrences and an event scheduler includes a set of events.

In some of these embodiments each event is linked to a set of data entry forms. A date field on the form is checked to determine whether the form meets the event occurrence s requirement. This operation can be performed by determining whether the data field falls between the event occurrences acceptable or catch up data range. The acceptable or catch up data range is calculated based on either the previous occurrence or the client age depending on how the agency s system administrator configures the event.

One embodiment of the event scheduler is the EPSDT The Early and Periodic Screening Diagnostic and Treatment schedule which differs from state to state. Agency administrators can set up their own event schedule to meet the local requirement.

The Event Engine in the system s software plays the role in transforming family data into an easy to read and understand format such as the POP EPSDT and family event viewer based on the business rules defined by the event builder. In some embodiments the Event Engine constitutes the core technology of the system s software for transforming family data into information that can be monitored. The Event Engine transforms family data based the rules set up in the Event Builder including but not limited to 

While POP and Workbook provide a user such as a HS manager an overview of the information that is beneficial to high level management decisions and data update the Event Viewer and EPSDT are two examples of how the transformed data are presented on an individual participant s level say a child or a family .

A few inventive aspects of the disclosed embodiments are explained in detail below with reference to the various figures. This disclosure is provided in the contexts of 1 Workbook Monitoring with Integrated Data Entry Update 2 Program Outcomes Portal POP Monitoring with Integrated Data Entry Update and 3 Event and Event Schedule Builder. However as indicated above these categorizations are merely provided for exemplary purposes and are not intended to be limiting. For example some of the disclosed embodiments may not necessary be amenable to being categorized in only one of these contexts e.g. some embodiments can be categorized in multiple of these contexts while other embodiments may not be categorized in any of these contexts.

The following disclosure refers to certain colors typically in the context of colored identifiers displayed on a color display and or printed using a color printer. Using different identifiers can be advantageous because it enables a user to easily distinguish between the different colored identifiers. The colors that are referred to in various sections of the present disclosure include green yellow red and blue. However these colors are merely referred to for convenience and similar or completely different colors can be used. In fact not all embodiments base distinctiveness based solely or in part on color differences. For example the attached figures do not show the identifiers in color and instead the identifiers are provided in black and white which may be beneficial under certain circumstances such as when printing using a black and white printer. Thus in the context of these identifiers green is shown as grey yellow is shown as white red is shown as black and blue is shown as cross hatching.

Some of the disclosed embodiments enable a user to monitor or otherwise determine whether the status of any event of any client in any group of clients is current or alternatively whether the associated deadline is approaching past due etc. Some embodiments uniquely represent the different status indications such as via a display using unique identifiers. For example a green flag can be used to represent any current event a yellow flag for an upcoming event or deadline i.e. impending deadline a red flag for any past due event a blue flag for an past due but remedied event etc. However these identifiers are merely provided for exemplary purposes and embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type configuration and or color of identifier that enables easy effective efficient and or quick status identification.

In fact some embodiments do not distinguish between different identifiers based on color and instead make this distinction based on identifiers of different shapes and or sizes. In some of these embodiments different but related conditions can be identified with slightly different identifiers while extremely different conditions can be identified with very different identifiers. This gradation in identifiers are can be expressed in terms of different colors and or different shapes sizes etc. In fact identifiers can be different in terms of shape size and or color.

The identifiers can be used in ways other than or in addition to the visual monitoring disclosed above. For example a user may also select a certain identifier such as a flag to enable the performance of various operations. In some of these embodiments selecting an identifier may provide access to a certain form for entering corresponding data. In some such embodiments this identification opens a form that is related to the selected status and or event which facilitates user friendliness of the system.

The bottom of includes a key of three different exemplary types of identifiers. The top row includes colored flags the middle row grayscale flags and the bottom row different colored symbols. These different types of identifiers are merely provided for exemplary purposes and embodiments are intended to include any type size color etc. of identifiers that enable the user to distinguish between them.

The screen shown in which may be referred to as a Workbook screen is beneficial in various respects. For example the configurations discussed above such as the distinguishable identifiers provide the user such as a HS manager with a real time monitoring capability. The HS managers can thereby easily identify the overall status of all children in the caseload or any other group at a glance. The HS managers can easily recognize by quickly viewing the Workbook screen that most of the caseload has deadlines approaching while about 10 of the events are past due and the deadlines for a few events are current.

Thus some embodiments utilize the screen visually on a display such as to provide the user with the ability to easily obtain an overall understanding of the caseload. However some of these and other embodiments use the distinguishable identifiers in other ways to achieve the same similar and or other benefits. In some of these embodiments the screen can be exported out to a PDF file printed or manipulated or changed to any other medium for any beneficial purpose.

Some of the above embodiments enable a user such as an HS manager to update or enter new data in order to update a child s status for an event. This ability is provided via the screen shown in .

The system is configured to enable the HS manager to select the black flag under the Medical Insurance column for this child i.e. Andrew Bellamy for the purpose of updating or entering new data. For example is a schematic of a screen showing the user s ability to update or provide further information relevant to the selected identifier of .

As shown in upon such a selection the system is configured to open up a data entry form for the HS manager to enable the HS manager to enter the missing data. The HS manager is then provided with the opportunity to enter the appropriate data i.e. Medicaid effective Sep. 5 2013 and to then close the data form.

The system is configured to automatically update the Workbook monitoring screen. For example is a schematic of a screen that has been updated pursuant to the information entered via the screen of . In other words the screen of corresponds to the screen of but includes the updated information indicated above. Specifically shows that Andrew Bellamy s Medical Insurance event is now current as indicated by the new white green flag .

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to enable users to receive alerts such as via any medium including but not limited to email text messaging SMS etc. depending on the status. For example these alerts can be transmitted and or received if certain deadlines are approaching coming soon and or missed past due . Some of these or other embodiments enable the alerts to be transmitted and or received at predetermined intervals such as daily weekly or monthly. Some of the Emails sent to users are automatically documented.

In accordance with some of the above and or other embodiments methods and systems are configured to enable users such as administrators to customize the Workbook such as to display or not display certain columns and or other information including information relevant to the alerts discussed above. In some embodiments certain users such as administrators and or managers can determine the events to be monitored and or the recipients of certain information such as the recipients of alerts for events with impending deadlines or deadlines that are past due.

In the embodiment shown in selection of the setting button results in a display of a list of all events that can be monitored. The user is then provided with the ability to determine the events to be monitored or not monitored. For example in the embodiment shown in a box is provided adjacent to each event. Providing a check mark in the box results in the adjacent event being monitored while leaving the box without a check mark results in the adjacent event not being monitored. The check mark can be added or removed by selecting the box with the cursor. The users are thereby enabled to select or deselect an event.

As indicated above in addition or as an alternative to determining the events to be monitored some systems are configured to enable the user to determine the recipient of certain or all alerts and or the amount of information provided to certain recipients. As one example the system can be configured to enable certain users such as administrators to manipulate certain settings to determine which user groups receive which alerts whether the alert s should include a detailed participants listing etc.

However the methods and systems of other embodiments can be configured in other ways to provide access to certain amounts of data depending of the user. For example some systems and methods may automatically show hide certain rows or columns or certain data in certain rows and or columns based on each user s level of access.

Some embodiments are configured to control user access using a two dimensional structure including organizational access and content access. The organizational access dimension determines which part of the organizational tree the user can access. The content access dimension determines what content information the user can access. For example both user A and user B can access the Physical Exam content which is an example of the content access dimension. However user A s organizational access is limited to Center A while user B s organizational access is not limited to Center B which is an example of the organizational access dimension. Therefore user A can only access children s Physical Exam content event in Center A but not Center B s children. However user B can access children s Physical Exam content event in both centers A and B are.

Some aspects of these embodiments are discussed in more detail below in the context of the following Program Outcomes Portal POP section.

In accordance with some embodiments the systems and methods are configured to enable some users such as agency managers to monitor the above and or other operations on a real time or substantially real time basis such as on a more macro level. This feature enables users to identify update or otherwise determine a number of aspects of the data including but not limited to 1 events that are current and or deadlines that are approaching or past due such as on the agency level and 2 the status of each business process. In addition these users can perform data entry or update information on a participant s data form.

Some embodiments uniquely represent the different status indications such as via a display using the unique identifiers disclosed above. For example as in the above examples a green flag can be used to represent any current event a yellow flag for an upcoming event or deadline a red flag for any past due event and a blue flag for a past due but remedied event.

This feature can be used or otherwise applied in any beneficial context such as in contexts other than the caseload contexts disclosed above. This feature can be used with Federal Local Mandates EPSDT Immunization ERSEA Mental Health Dental Health Physical Medical Tests Medical Conditions Nutrition Disability CLASS and or Staff Check List Training Education Certification Licenses . A few such applications of these contexts are disclosed below.

For example a user such as a HS manager can quickly gather important program information such as but not limited to information relating to the 23 enrolled participants of the entire agency. The user can easily determine the rough percentage of the participants that are current approaching deadlines past due and remedied past due dates. The mandatory events are grouped by the length of the grace period such as 30 day 45 day and 90 day grace periods. These grace periods are determined by the federal government state government and agency and can be configured by the agency which is discussed in more detail in the context of Events and Events Schedule Builder.

For each of the events discussed above the POP screen provides a breakdown for all of the participants within a certain group. For example as shown in with regard to Medical Home a black red flag is indicated for 13 participants a grey green flag is indicated for 1 participant a white yellow flag is indicated for 8 participants and a cross hatched blue flag is indicated for 1 participant. Thus with regard to Medical Home 13 participants are past due one participant is current eight participants have impending deadlines and one participant is remedied past due.

In accordance with some embodiments a user can select any of the numbers displayed on the Program Outcomes Portal POP of such as any of the numbers displayed adjacent to any of the flags discussed above. This selection enables the user to obtain access to a detailed clients listing for that category such as all individuals who have red flags for Medical Home. Alternatively the user can select the flag instead of the number to obtain this information.

The system is configured so that the POP automatically refreshes its screen to show that there are now only now 12 children left in that category which in this case are identified via a black red flag. is a schematic of an exemplary screen in the context of Mandates for Head Start which is a refreshed version of the screen of . Thus because a medical record has been entered for the child Mary Ingals as discussed above with regard to only 12 children remain having black red flags as shown in .

The methods and systems of some embodiments are configured to enable a user to obtain breakdowns of some or all of the above information in the contexts of different levels of the overall structure of the organization. For example the user can obtain breakdowns of the data by the agency organization structure from the top delegate sub contractor centers to classrooms and caseloads. In accordance with some embodiments this operation is performed by selecting the symbol adjacent the desired type of information. In one example the symbol adjacent Medical Home in is selected to perform this operation.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to provide or customize access to certain amounts of this data. Thus the methods and systems of some embodiments are configured to enable a user such as an administrator to customize the POP to show or hide certain columns.

In some embodiments this operation is performed by selecting a Setting button such as the Setting button of . In other words a system administrator or other user can select the Setting button on the top of a POP page of to initiate a process to hide show certain categories as well as control the display orders.

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to enable users to receive alerts such as via any medium including but not limited to email text messaging SMS etc. depending on the status. For example these alerts can be transmitted and or received if certain deadlines are approaching coming soon and or missed Past due . Some of these or other embodiments enable the alerts to be transmitted and or received at predetermined intervals such as daily weekly or monthly.

Some of the alerts sent by email to users are automatically documented in the system. The determination as to which user groups receive alerts is initiated by selecting an Alert button to pop up a window such as via the screen shown in . is a schematic of a screen that enables users to determine which user groups receive alerts. The administrator can determine which user group receives alerts on what categories of events and whether to receive the detailed listing. For example as shown in all users in the FSW user group are designated to receive alerts in the following categories developmental assessment and physical exam . Also all users in the data entry user group are designated to receive alerts for medical home . The user groups receive the alerts based on the indication of yes in the display participant listings .

In accordance with some embodiments the methods and systems are configured to provide access to certain amounts of data depending of the user. For example the systems and methods may automatically show hide certain rows or columns or certain data in certain rows and or columns based on each user s level of access.

The system controls user access using a two dimensional structure including organizational access and content access. The organizational access dimension determines which part of the organizational tree the user can access. The content access dimension determines what content information the user can access. For example both user A and user B can access the Physical Exam content which is an example of the content access dimension. However user A s organizational access is limited to Center A while user B s organizational access is not limited to Center B. Therefore user A can only access children s Physical Exam content event in Center A but not Center B s children. However user B can access children s Physical Exam content event for both centers A and B.

In accordance with some embodiments the systems and methods are configured to enable users to build their own events and event schedulers. In some of these embodiments the event includes a series of occurrences and an event scheduler includes a set of events.

In some of these embodiments each event is linked to a set of data entry forms. A date field on the form is checked to determine whether the form meets the event occurrence s requirement. This operation can be performed by determining whether the data field falls between the event occurrences acceptable or catch up data range. The acceptable or catch up data range is calculated based on either the previous occurrence or the client age depending on how the agency s system administrator configures the event.

One embodiment of the event scheduler is the EPSDT The Early and Periodic Screening Diagnostic and Treatment schedule which differs from state to state. Agency administrators can set up their own event schedule to meet the local requirement.

As shown in the event schedule builder includes the title 2303 of the events and an indication as to whether they are actuated . Further information is available in the event details field and the occurrences field .

As shown in AAP in the event schedule library is shown in the event schedule . Administrators can drag an event from the events library into the events schedule .

The Event Engine in the system s software plays the role in transforming family data into an easy to read and understand format such as the POP EPSDT and family event viewer based on the business rules defined by the event builder. is a schematic that shows how family data is transformed into an easy to read and understand format such as the POP EPSDT and family event viewer based on the business rules defined by the event builder. The Event Engine is the core software that interprets a family data record based on the Event Rules to inform the users if a particular event for a family is Past due About to expire Current or Complete shown as the Events Viewer and EPSDT . With this data interpreted on the family level data software can then aggregate the data on the classroom center delegate or agency level show on the Workbook POP and other reports.

As shown in the Event Engine is the core technology of the system s software for transforming family data into monitor able information. As shown in the Event Builder image the Event Engine transforms family data based the rules set up in the Event Builder including but not limited to 

While POP and Workbook provide a user such as a HS manager an overview of the information that is beneficial to high level management decisions and data update the Event Viewer and EPSDT are two examples of how the transformed data are presented on an individual participant s level say a child or a family .

The following example of a 45 day grace period demonstrates the data transformation logic for the POP Mandates. This process is illustrated in with alphanumeric references to the discuss ion below.

A If there is a form record containing form date that is within the subject occurrence due date range or catch up data range show green.

B If there is no form record containing form date that is within the subject occurrence due date range or catch up data range and

B 1 If today is prior to the 45day show yellow flag. Reason The participant is still current and the yellow flag is to remind the agency to complete the event occurrence.

B 2 a If the 45day is before the occurrence due end date then the yellow flag should become green and remain green. Reason The child was current within the entire 45 day period.

B 2 b If the 45day is after the occurrence due end date then the yellow flag should become red and remain red until it becomes blue when additional form is entered.

Although an event status is typically represented by one of the colored flags as described above users can choose different set of symbols on a personal level such as a green check mark for current or up to date a yellow bell for due coming up a red check mark X for past due etc.

Exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling the processors disclosed above to implement the disclosed processes. In other words exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all systems and processes that configure a document operating system to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed above.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

While certain embodiments of the invention are described above it should be understood that the invention can be embodied and configured in many different ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example 

While the subject matter has been described in detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the invention. All related art references discussed in the above Description of the Related Art section are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

