---

title: Location suggestion based upon social networking post content
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems receive input associated with a social networking system user account. The input includes content to be published to the social networking system. In response to the received input, one or more location suggestions are identified based upon the content. The one or more identified location suggestions are transmitted to a user device associated with the user account. Selection of a location suggestion is received. The content and selected location is published as a post within the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584606&OS=09584606&RS=09584606
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09584606
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The various embodiments described herein relate to publishing content to social networking systems. In particular the embodiments relate to suggesting locations based upon content composed by or selected by a user for publication on a social network.

Social networking systems enable users to interact with various objects represented within the social network. For example a social networking system allows users to designate other users or entities as connections or otherwise connect to or form relationships with other users or entities contribute and interact with their connections post media or commentary share links to external content use applications join groups list and confirm attendance at events invite connections and perform other tasks that facilitate social interaction. External applications also use the services of a social networking system to allow authenticated users to incorporate some of the above social interactions with use of the external applications. Similar interactions may also be a part of the user experience within other network services.

Users of social networking systems increasingly access the social networking systems and other network services via mobile devices. Mobile devices are configured to receive user input e.g. by way of a virtual keyboard or other selectable user interface objects displayed on the mobile device s touchscreen. Given the limits of these input mechanisms users may limit their interactions with a social networking system via a mobile device when those interactions require manual entry of words or phrases. While predictive text capabilities attempt to auto correct typographical errors for and reduce the amount of keystrokes needed to enter common words predictive text algorithms do not account for information that is relevant to a specific user and social networking system.

Exemplary methods apparatuses and systems receive input associated with a social networking system user account. The input includes content to be published to the social networking system. For example a user of a mobile device may manually enter content describing the user s state of mind activity plans etc. using a keyboard or select pre composed content within a post composition window. In response to the received input one or more location suggestions are identified based upon the content. For example the social networking system may parse the content for keywords or pre composed content and map the parsed content to one or more categories of locations. Additionally the social networking system may refine location suggestions using location data for the mobile device location data for the user location history for the user the time of post composition feedback on locations etc. One or more identified location suggestions are transmitted to a user device associated with the user account. In one embodiment the location suggestion s are transmitted during the composition of the post. In an alternate embodiment the location suggestion s are transmitted after the post has been published to the social networking system. Upon user selection or confirmation of a location suggestion the content and selected location are published as a part of a post within the social networking system.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

Users of a social networking system share content by posting electronic messages to the social networking system. For example posts may include content describing a state of mind plans activity etc. and include a location that is relevant to that content. The inclusion of additional data such as a location however can be inconvenient when a user composes the post on a mobile device. Accordingly embodiments described herein enable the automatic identification and transmittal of selectable location suggestions. As a result users of the social networking system benefit from the ability to share online content while minimizing the amount of user input involved in composing the post. Additionally users in a dense metropolitan area are able to select among relevant location suggestions without being subjected to the noise of all of the locations within close proximity to an estimated user location.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an exemplary embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary refers to embodiments that serve simply as an example or illustration. Furthermore when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

In one embodiment a user device e.g. A may execute a user application e.g. A allowing a user A of the user device A to interact with the social networking system . For example the user application A may be a web browser application. In an embodiment the user application A is a special purpose client application e.g. Facebook for iPhone or iPad etc. and in an embodiment the user application A is the native operating system of the user device A such as Windows Mac OSX iOS or ANDROID which may utilize an Application Programming Interface API to directly interface with the social networking system through API request server .

The user devices A N are configured to communicate with the social networking system via a network or collection of networks such as the Internet a corporate Intranet a Virtual Private Network VPN a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a cellular network a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN or a combination of two or more such networks. The network may be wired wireless or a combination of both. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols.

In some embodiments the social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users A N and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users A N and or objects. Users A N using the social networking system may add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected and may also interact with these other users or objects. The users of the social networking system are individuals e.g. humans and the objects may include entities such as businesses organizations universities manufacturers brands celebrities etc. concepts or other non human things including but not limited to a location an album an article a book a movie food etc.

Based on the stored data about users objects and the connections between the users and or objects the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph in a social graph store comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents a user or object that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system adds removes or otherwise modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions. An exemplary social graph is described with reference to .

To provide these functionalities one embodiment of the social networking system includes an API request server a web server a message server an action logger and a set of data stores . This embodiment also includes within the data stores a social graph store a content store an action log a user profile data store and an object data store . In other embodiments the social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Of course conventional components such as processors memories security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown in so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The social networking system allows its users A N to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles in the user profile data store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile data store describes the users A N of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender relationship status hobbies location other preferences and the like. The user profile may also store information provided by the user. For example images videos and location data provided by the user may also be stored within the user profile. In other embodiments only textual data of the user is stored in the user profile and other data e.g. images videos etc. are stored in multimedia stores and associated with the user e.g. through associating a user identifier of the user with an image video identifier of the multimedia content . In certain embodiments images videos and posts by users including or depicting one or more other users of the social networking system may be tagged with identification information of those users. A user profile in the user profile data store may also maintain references to actions stored in the user profile or in an action log by the corresponding user performed on content items in a content store . A user may also specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in that user s user profile. Privacy settings limit information that the social networking system or other users of the social networking system are permitted to access from that user s user profile.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more user devices A N by accepting requests for from the user devices A N and or transmitting webpages or other web related content to the user devices A N such as image files audio files video files Java applets Flash XML JavaScript Cascading Style Sheets CSS and so forth. The web server in some embodiments is configured to utilize a set of one or more network interfaces to send and receive messages across the network . In some embodiments the web server additionally or alternately utilizes a message server e.g. a dedicated server end station a dedicated software application etc. to communicate with the user devices A N which is operative to send and or receive instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS Short Message Service messages or utilize any other suitable messaging technique.

In some embodiments a message sent by a user to another user by way of the social networking system can be viewed by other users of the social networking system for example by certain connections of the user directly connected users in the social graph other users more than one hop away in the social graph etc. receiving the message. An example of a type of message that can be viewed by other users of the social networking system besides the recipient of the message is commonly known as a post. In some embodiments a user can send a private message to another user that can only be retrieved by the other user.

When a user takes an action within the social networking system an action logger subject to any privacy settings and restrictions of the user and or social networking system may record the action in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken on the social networking system the social networking system can add an entry for that action to the action log . In accordance with various embodiments the action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about those user actions. This information may be subject to privacy settings associated with the user. Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in a database or other data repository such as the action log . Examples of actions taken in the social networking system that may be stored in the action log include but are not limited to adding a connection to another other user sending a message to the other user reading a message from the other user viewing content e.g. posts images videos associated with or created by the other user attending an event posted by another user being tagged in posts or photos with by another user etc. In some embodiments certain actions are described in connection with more than one user and these actions may be associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. As used herein checking in refers to the inclusion of a location within a post as an indication e.g. that the user was present at that location. As used herein a location refers to a business residence public place or other location that may be identified represented within the social network. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include logging in to the social networking system commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician or brand by liking a page of the respective entity adding an event to a calendar joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track other user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on an external application e.g. website that are communicated to the social networking system . For example the social networking system may allow users to interact with external e.g. third party applications e.g. websites external storage and or external servers e.g. server end stations . The API request server allows external systems e.g. an external application of external server and or user applications A of user devices A N to access information from or transmit information to the social networking system by issuing API calls. The information provided by the social networking system may include user profile information or the connection information of users subject to the individual privacy settings of the user. For example a system e.g. external application may send an API request to the social networking system via the network to publish a story on behalf of a user request information about a user after having been given permission to do so by the user upload a photograph on behalf of a user etc. API requests are received at the social networking system by the API request server which then processes the request by performing actions sought by the API requests determining appropriate responses to the API requests and transmitting back these responses back to the requesting application via the network .

The content store stores content items associated with user profiles such as images videos and or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users or entities to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system .

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities included social graph store . An entity is a type of object that can be a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. However in some embodiments of the invention an entity may represent a celebrity or other well known individual and thus an entity object node for a person may exist in the social graph serving as a brand for that individual and perhaps having an associated page that other users may like and also a user node for that same person may also exist in the social graph serving as a representation for a personal account of that person . A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a user of the social networking system . For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s stored content from the object data store as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the page.

In the depicted embodiment the social networking system includes a location suggestion module . The location suggestion module identifies location suggestions based upon post content as described herein. For example the location suggestion module may parse the content for keywords or pre composed content and map the parsed content to one or more categories of locations. Additionally the location suggestion module may refine location suggestions using location data for the mobile device location data for the user location history for the user the time of post composition feedback on locations etc. While embodiments described herein refer to method s of location suggestion being performed by the location suggestion module within the social networking system all or part of the method s e.g. method may be performed by an external application running on an external server .

In one embodiment users are able to add demographic information to user profiles . In one embodiment for demographic information that has not been entered by a user a social network application generates an estimate based upon the user s actions connections and or actions of connections. For example User B has not entered an alma mater into user profile . A social network application may determine from User B s contacts activities cities of residence etc. that User B s likely alma mater is one or both of Brigham Young University and Harvard University. In one embodiment the user profiles include additional information such as relationships to other users places where the user has worked user interests etc.

In one embodiment users are able to provide feedback on actions of other users entities. As a result actions are also viewed as objects that may be acted upon. For example User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. As a result the social networking system publishes a narrative associated with User B e.g. in a newsfeed profile of User B etc. indicating that User B listened to music by the artist The Killers. In viewing a newsfeed profile of User B or another form of social networking system publication s the social networking system displays the narrative to User A. The social networking system then receives input from User A indicating that User A likes that User B listened to The Killers.

In one embodiment demographic data further includes a weight or score indicating an affinity between a user and an object. For example repeated user action with one object may indicate a stronger affinity for said object than another object with which the user has limited interaction. First degree connections e.g. the friendship between User A and User B may indicate a stronger affinity than second degree connections e.g. User A is friends with User B who is friends with User C creating a second degree connection between User A and User C. An indication that two users are married may indicate a stronger affinity than if two users are friends. Additionally temporal and geographic proximity of actions users are other exemplary indicators of affinity.

In one embodiment users may select privacy settings to control what network service data is shared with whom the data is shared and or what data used for selecting candidate objects.

At block the social networking system identifies location suggestions based upon the post content. The post content may be utilized for identifying location suggestions before or after the content is published by the social networking system. In one embodiment the social networking system parses the content for keywords or pre composed content and maps the parsed content to one or more categories of locations. For example content related to watching a movie may map to a movie theater location category content related to reading may map to bookstore and library location categories content related to eating may map to a restaurant location category etc. Additionally content related to drinking coffee may map to cafes while content related to drinking a cocktail may map to bars. In one embodiment the parsing includes text normalization stemming and other methods of identifying content within text. The identified content is mapped e.g. using a stored data structure to the location categories. In another embodiment user selection of pre composed content maps directly to location categories without further analyzing text by way of normalization stemming etc.

In one embodiment the social networking system s identification of location suggestions is further based upon user location data location feedback data and or time of post composition. For example user location data may include location data transmitted by the user s device in the form of Global Positioning System GPS or Assisted GPS A GPS data Wi Fi positioning data cellular network triangulation data etc. User location data may also include user profile location data such as an indicated location of home work school etc. Furthermore user location data may include locations the user previously included in posts or locations included in posts by other users that also tag the user.

In an embodiment in which location suggestions are identified after the content is published by the social networking system unpublished user location data e.g. GPS data is saved by the social networking system in association with the published post. For example the location data may be saved using a time stamp that matches the post stored as metadata along with the post or otherwise mapped to the post.

In one embodiment the user via a mobile device continuously shares user location data e.g. at a predetermined time interval with the social networking system. In such an embodiment the social networking system determines from the user location data if the user remained in particular location or within a particular radius of a location for a threshold period of time. For example the social networking system may determine from location data indicating that a user stopped at a particular location for more than fifteen minutes that a business at that location is a likely location candidate.

In one embodiment each identified location is ranked or otherwise attributed a score based upon a distance from the user location data. For example the closer a location is to the user s GPS location at the time of the post the more likely the user is composing composed a post related to a business residence public place etc. at that location. Similarly a location s proximity to the user s work during work hours may be attributed a higher score than a location near the user s home.

Exemplary location feedback data includes the individual user or other users confirmation s or rejection s of locations when presented as suggested locations. Additionally location feedback data may include how often a location is included posts whether the user has liked follows left a positive rating for or has created another relationship to the location in the social graph and or a number of likes or other positive ratings for a location generally.

In one embodiment location feedback data may be weighted giving the highest priority to feedback by the user less priority to feedback by the user s connections within the social network e.g. with the score being based upon affinity to the user and even less priority to feedback by other users that are not connected to the user e.g. with the score being based upon similarities between the other users and the current user .

The social networking system may further refine identified locations based upon the time of the post. As described above a location s proximity to the user s work during work hours may be attributed a higher score than a location near the user s home. Additionally while a bar may serve food a bar may be given a higher score after work hours and a lower score during work hours. Similarly a restaurant may be given a higher score for post content about drinking a cocktail during the early evening while a bar may be given the higher score in the late evening. Furthermore the social networking system may determine hours of operation for locations e.g. based upon an entity profile or external link and include exclude locations based upon whether or not the location is open for business at the time of the post.

In one embodiment the social networking system uses the combined scores for each location to order the location suggestions. Additionally the social networking system may select only those locations with a score above a threshold value. Alternatively the social networking system may select only a threshold number of locations with the highest score. For example the social networking system may present only a single highest scoring location suggestion to the user.

At block the social networking system transmits the one or more identified location suggestions to the user device. In one embodiment the one or more identified location suggestions are transmitted as a part of a graphical user interface to be displayed to the user by the user device. Exemplary graphical user interfaces including the transmitted location suggestions are described with reference to .

At block the social networking system receives selection or rejection of a suggested location. For example the user may click or otherwise select to include or reject a location suggestion displayed within a graphical user interface. Exemplary graphical user interfaces implementing the selection of a location suggestion and the transmittal to the social networking service are described with reference to .

At block the social networking service optionally updates the location suggestion feedback data for the one or more location suggestions transmitted to the user device. For example user selection of a location suggestion serves as positive feedback which the social networking system may use to increase the confidence score for suggesting that particular location. The lack of selection or active rejection of a suggested location may also be used as negative feedback. For example the suggested location s may or may not accurately predict the user s actual location location related to the content of the post. Alternatively the user may choose not to include location data despite a location suggestion accurately predicted the user s location. Given these scenarios the social networking system may decrease the confidence score for suggesting a particular location in a corresponding amount when a suggested location is not selected or a suggested location is rejected and another suggested location is selected entered.

At block the social networking system optionally transmits a composition window including the content and the selected location. For example the social networking system may transmit the content and selected location within the context of a graphical user interface to provide a draft or preview of the post. In one embodiment the graphical user interface further allows the user to edit the content of the post e.g. to add further content tag another user add a picture etc. An exemplary graphical user interface including the content and selected location for preview editing is described with reference to . Alternatively the social networking system publishes the post including the content and selected location in response to the selection of the location suggestion.

At block the social networking system optionally receives a command to publish the post including the content and selected location. For example once the user has previewed edited the draft post the user selects a graphical user interface object or otherwise enters a command to the social networking system to publish the post. An exemplary graphical user interface enabling a user to submit a command to publish the content and selected location is described with reference to .

At block the social networking system publishes the post including the selected location and content. In one embodiment the selected location is published along with a map as a link to a webpage for the location or in another format to indicate that the text refers to a location. An exemplary graphical user interface displaying the published post including the content and selected location is described with reference to .

At block the social networking system optionally transmits a recommendation or request to the user device based upon the selected location. In one embodiment the recommendation or request enables the user to join a local chat based upon social networking system users present at the selected location at that time. For example the social networking system may facilitate a local chat room conversation for all users that have checked in at a restaurant or bar. In one embodiment the local chat is open to all social networking system users present or that checked in at the location within a threshold period of time. Alternatively only users with a threshold number of degrees of connectivity to a user already participating in the chat are able to join the chat. An exemplary graphical user interface presenting a recommendation or request enabling a user to join a local chat is described with reference to .

In one embodiment the recommendation or request transmitted to the user prompts the user to share additional content related to the location. For example the content of the post may include commentary that may be considered to be a review of the location that would be helpful to share publicly by adding it to a webpage dedicated to the location. Alternatively the content may include a picture taken at the location that may users may find interesting when looking up the location within the social networking system. Additionally the user may have taken a picture at the location at the time the post was composed and uploaded the picture to the social networking system but not included the picture within the post. In such an embodiment the social networking compares metadata included with uploaded picture such as location data and or a time stamp and compares the metadata with the location data for the selected location or the time of the creation of the post. If the social networking system determines that the picture metadata is within a threshold time location distance of the post metadata the social networking system prompts the user to add the picture to the post or to share the picture publicly e.g. by adding it to an album for the location .

Furthermore as described above the social networking system may identify location suggestions based upon proximity to an estimated user location based upon user location data location feedback data and time of the post. For example Union Hall includes an indication of 15 912 user check ins that may be used as a strong indication of positive location feedback. Additionally Union Hall includes an indication that it is 180 feet from an estimated user location. Given the close proximity and positive feedback data Union Hall is presented as a suggested location.

In one embodiment the user manually enters user location data. For example user interface includes search box in which the user may enter location data. In the illustrated example the search box has been pre filled with the city New York N.Y. as a result of estimated user location data e.g. based upon GPS data from the user s mobile device . The user may clear or otherwise alter the input of search box to refine the suggested locations. For example the user may delete the contents of search box or select a user interface object to clear the current location data. Additionally the user may select a skip user interface object to forgo the inclusion of a location within the post. As described above the user inputs received in response to the displayed list of location suggestions may be used as positive and or negative feedback.

Data processing system includes memory which is coupled to microprocessor s . Memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . For example memory may include one or more of the data stores and or may store modules described herein. Memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. Memory may be internal or distributed memory.

Data processing system includes network and port interfaces such as a port connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet Fibre Channel etc. to connect the system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary network and port interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an I5 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 2G 3G 4G etc. or another wireless protocol to connect data processing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

Data processing system also includes display controller and display device and one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces . Display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user. I O devices allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system. I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner audio input output e.g. microphone and or a speaker other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

Data processing system is an exemplary representation of one or more of user device external server and one or more components of social networking system or modules thereof e.g. location suggestion module described above. Data processing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In other embodiments data processing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer device system processing system processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

Additional components not shown may also be part of data processing system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in data processing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the computer implemented method may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing an FPGA ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a network. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

As detailed herein some embodiments of a method embodiments of a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions which when executed by one or more processors in a processing device cause the processing device to perform a method and embodiments of an apparatus comprising a processing device wherein the processing device executes instructions that cause the apparatus to perform a method. The methods described herein include receiving input associated with a user account the input including content to be published on a social networking system identifying in response to the received input one or more location suggestions based upon the content transmitting to a user device associated with the user account the one or more identified location suggestions receiving selection of one of the location suggestions and publishing the content and selected location as a post within the social networking system. Additionally some embodiments of the method further include one or more of 1 transmitting to the user device a composition window including the content and selected location and receiving a command to publish the content and selected location 2 the one or more location suggestions being further based upon location data associated with the user device or the user account 3 the location data including a location previously published in a post by the user account 4 the location data including a geospatial position of the user device within a window of time when the input is received 5 the location data including an indication that the user device was stationary at the geospatial position for a threshold period of time 6 the one or more location suggestions further being based upon positive feedback received by the social networking system with respect to locations 7 the positive feedback including the social networking system receiving selection of one or more of the locations in response to transmitting the one or more locations as location suggestions 8 the one or more location suggestions being further based upon a time when the input is received 9 transmitting to the user device in response to the received selection of the location an recommendation to join an online conversation of users of the social networking system that also selected the location and 10 determining in response to the received selection of the location that a user device associated with the user account published a photograph to the social networking system taken within a threshold period of time of the publication of the content and selected location and transmitting to the user device a request to associate the photograph with the location within the social networking system.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

