---

title: Message preview control
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems, as well as software, computer programs, applications, and user interfaces, and more particularly, to systems, devices and methods to facilitate message preview control. For example, the method may include generating representations for messages to present on an interface, and detecting selection of the representation for the message. Further, the method can include presenting preview information for the message, which can be an electronic facsimile. The representations for the messages can include a representation for an electronic facsimile, as well as a voice message and an email.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09059953&OS=09059953&RS=09059953
owner: RingCentral, Inc.
number: 09059953
owner_city: Belmont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140515
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 739 334 filed Jan. 11 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 403 963 filed Feb. 23 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 384 942 issued Feb. 26 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 998 150 filed Nov. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 134 727 issued Mar. 13 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 861 763 filed Nov. 27 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to user interfaces and more particularly to systems devices and methods to facilitate for example real time control of previewing messages such as electronic mail email messages electronic facsimiles and voice messages among others.

While conventional messaging systems provide various mechanisms to electronically deliver a message from a sender to a recipient these mechanisms typically require processing of a message e.g. the entire message to access the content of the message. As such a user typically opens a message to retrieve the content of the message before the user can ascertain at least in some circumstances whether the message is of value to the user. While this may be functional when a user peruses through small groups of messages this approach hinders the ability of a user to determine the content for relatively large amounts of messages. Further a user usually consumes time and effort opening and or viewing the messages including messages sent by commercial agencies or advertising campaigns instead of being able to immediately identify whether a message is relevant to the user.

Thus a solution is needed to provide an apparatus a method and a system for previewing messages without the limitations of conventional techniques.

In view of the foregoing preview module can be configured to provide access to the content and or contextual message information of messages to or any other type of messages without requiring the processing e.g. the simultaneous processing of both the content and contextual message information for a specific message according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically preview module can be configured to present preview information that includes a portion of a message information relating to the message or some modified version of the message that is suitable for previewing in the context of preview window . As such the preview information can provide a user with information to determine whether to defer or avoid opening a message thereby preserving computational resources as well as time that otherwise would be expended on accessing and opening the message. The presented preview information can be perceived visually and or audibly according to various examples. Further preview module can be configured to provide selectable control inputs to enable a user to for example modify the presentation of the preview information or perform an action based on the preview information. By modifying the presentation of the preview information a user can enhance the presentation of the preview information so that the user for example can access additional information with which to determine whether to skip opening the message. By performing an action based on the preview information a user can use the preview information to take action such as making a phone call or sending an electronic facsimile without requiring the processing e.g. the simultaneous processing of both the content and contextual message information for the message. In various embodiments preview module can provide control inputs coextensive to the presentation of either the preview information or representations or both so as to avoid obscuring the preview information or at least some of representations which in turn can obviate transitioning back and forth between one or more windows to determine the content or other information such contextual message information of messages. As used herein the term preview information can generally refer at least in one embodiment to a portion of a message including but not limited to components relating to content or contextual message information or both.

As shown preview module can include a preset filtration manager a real time filtration manager and a command manager . Preset filtration manager can be configured to manage the filtration of content prior to presenting e.g. displaying the preview information. For example preset filtration manager can initiate the filtering components of a message to form filtered components prior to the detection of the selection of a representation for the message. In some examples preset filtration manager can use the filtered components responsive to request for preview information. In one or more examples preset filtration manager can filter components of a message to exclude or include components based on rules e.g. predetermined rules to optimize the presentation of the preview information. To illustrate consider that a user moves a mouse pointer from a first position depicted as mouse pointer to a second position depicted as mouse pointer to preview a fax message associated with representation . The placement of mouse pointer in relation to representation fax message 1 can cause the presentation of a replica of the message as preview information . Here the replica of the message has reduced resolution relative to the message. In one or more embodiments preview information can include fax components not shown which can include but are not limited to data representing the content for an electronic facsimile as well as contextual message information such as a recipient fax phone number a fax subject line a time and date stamp a cover sheet and the like.

Real time filtration manager can be configured to manage the filtration of the content and or contextual message information to modify the presentation of the preview information. For example real time filtration manager can be configured to filter the components of a message to form real time filtered components subsequent to the detection of the selection of a representation for the message. As such real time filtration manager can filter the components of a message to exclude or include the filtered components i.e. the components that were preset or predetermined to modify the presentation of the preview information e.g. by zooming in on or out of a replica image or by speeding up or slowing down the playing of audio . The modification of the preview information can be based on rules and or user input. To illustrate consider that real time filtration manager can present one or more control inputs in preview window such as modify preview control MPC inputs . Continuing with the example of previewing an electronic facsimile modify preview control inputs can include selections e.g. a zoom in button or a zoom out button to either zoom in on or zoom out from preview information as well as selections to navigate up down left or right with respect to preview window . Real time filtration manager can accept the selection of modify preview control inputs and in response present the modified preview information e.g. a zoomed image or enlarged text in either preview window or another preview window not shown . Alternatively real time filtration manager can present one or more control inputs in a preview modification window which can present modify preview control inputs as modify preview control 1 and modify preview control 2 . Preview modification window can be generated responsive to the placement of the mouse pointer depicted as mouse pointer at near or over preview window .

Command manager can be configured to initiate and or manage the performance of an action using a portion of the preview information. For example command manager can be configured to perform an action using content or the contextual message information of a message without requiring the processing e.g. the simultaneous processing of both the content and contextual message information for a specific message. To illustrate consider that command manager can present one or more control inputs in preview window such as action inputs . Action inputs can be accessed via for example a drop down menu of selections or by right clicking a mouse. Continuing with the example of previewing an electronic facsimile action inputs can include selections to respond to a fax message e.g. using a recipient fax number presented as part of the preview information call the sender of the message open an electronic document as an attachment to a fax message and the like. Command manager can accept the selection of action inputs and in response invoke an application e.g. a computer program to perform the command. Alternatively command manager can present one or more control inputs in a preview action window which can present action inputs as action input 1 and action input 2 . Preview action window can be generated responsive to the placement of the mouse pointer depicted as mouse pointer at near or over preview window .

Note that while the above described examples relate to the modification of preview information and actions performed for an electronic facsimile message preview module can operate similarly in connection with email messages voice messages and any other types of messages such as text and instant messages. As used herein the term electronic facsimile refers generally to an electronic message that may be formed to include an electronic document in compliance with specific protocols such as those associated with ITU T.30 and T.38 or the like. As used herein the term electronic document refers generally to any data file e.g. other than computer programs or system files that are intended to be used in their electronic form without necessarily being printed whereby computer networks and electronic display technologies may help facilitate their use and distribution. For example an electronic document may be included in or form an electronic message such as an electronic facsimile. The electronic document may be transmitted over the network using special protocols such as T.38 i.e. a known protocol for real time fax transmissions across an IP based network using User Datagram Protocol UDP or Transmission Control Protocol TCP to process packets across the network. As used herein the term electronic message refers generally to a message created generated sent communicated received and or stored using any apparatus system or method having electrical digital magnetic wireless optical electromagnetic or similar capabilities. Examples of electronic messages include emails text messages electronic facsimiles voice messages and the like.

Message can be associated with various attributes which can be used to describe the message and or its components. For example message can be characterized by or associated with various attributes. Status attributes can describe a component that indicates whether message is read or unread. Message type attributes can indicate whether message includes one or more of the following components video audio image and or text. Message property attributes can include various message properties that can be attributed to message and or its components . For example property attributes can be associated with the following components a phone number associated with the client device a name of a user associated with a sending device e.g. John Smith a date and time stamp indicative of the time and date of receipt for a message e.g. Wed Nov. 1 2006 at 12 23 PM a length indicator of the message if the message contains audio data e.g. 0 40 seconds a number of pages of the message if the message contains text or image data e.g. 1 page and the like. Message Content Attributes can include various content that can be attributed to message and to its components. As such these components can include the actual content and or the preset filtrated content e.g. an image for an electronic facsimile or a portion thereof that has a reduced resolution . Access privilege attributes can indicate whether a recipient or sender of a message has authorization to for example do any of the following perceive receipt of a message obtain preview information for the message access the message perform actions based on the preview information modify the presentation of the preview information and the like.

Preview module can be configured to generate filter components which can include real time filtered components. In operation preview module can access one or rules from repository that define one or more filtration processes. Responsive to the one or more rules as well as optional user input preview module can use the attributes to determine which components will form the preview information. For example preview module can match attributes set forth in the one or more rules to the components of message and in turn select relevant components and to form the filtered components.

Message decomposition module can be configured to decompose messages such as message into constituent components . In some examples message decomposition module can operate to identify components without isolating components from each other. In at least one example message decomposition module can identify attributes of components and associate one or more identifiers to each component. Here identifiers can be searchable representations of the attributes associated with components . In at least one example identifiers can identify attributes described in for message . To illustrate operation of message decomposition module consider that message is an electronic facsimile message. As such message decomposition module can break down the message to identify components that include fax component data representing the following content for an electronic facsimile e.g. an image file such as in PDF TIFF or comparable formats a recipient fax phone number a fax subject line a time and date stamp a cover sheet and the like. Further components can each be associated with an identifier . Note that message decomposition module can include a process to break down messages into components according to media formats and then provide each component with an identifier . In other examples messages can each be decomposed into components that are composed of text and or images such as in TIFF PDF bitmap MEG and other like image file formats. In still other examples messages can be decomposed into components composed of audible files such as MP3 WAV and like audio file formats. Also messages can be broken down into components composed of video files such as in MPEG MPEG 4 WMV and like video file formats. In at least one instance mailbox interface can cause transmission of decomposition control signals to message decomposition module to select message for decomposition from a group of messages constituting mailbox .

Message filtration module can be configured to filter components to form filtered components to which in turn can form at least a portion of preview information presented in preview window PW of interface . To illustrate consider that message filtration module can be configured to receive components associated with message along with corresponding identifiers . Next message filtration module can determine the attributes of message represented here as identifiers and then search filtering rules repository for applicable rules such as rule . Further to this example rule can require that the component having attribute A2 form part of the preview information. As an example attribute A2 can specify a component that includes a reduced image of a fax coversheet. Responsive to rule message filtration module can be configured to generate and store filtered component in filtered components repository . Thus components can be filtered prior to the detection of the selection of message to preview.

Preview module can be configured to manage requests for preview information based on preset filtration and modified preview information based on real time filtration. To illustrate the former consider that a user interacting with interface causes a preview request to be generated and transmitted to preview module . Preview request is a request to preview message . In response preview module fetches the preview information that includes filtered component . Preview information can then be presented in association with preview window . To illustrate the latter consider that a user interacts with interface to cause a real time filtration request to be generated to for example present modified preview information at interface . Real time filtration request can be processed by message decomposition module if for example real time decomposition and attribute identification is necessary. Otherwise message filtration module can respond to real time filtration request by for instance transmitting component as a real time filtered component for presentation as modified preview information at interface .

Note that modified preview information is directly transmitted without intermediary storage at least in one example unlike preview information . Component can be a resized replica of message at for example a higher resolution if real time filtration request includes a request to zoom in. In one or more examples a converter can be included to perform a conversion on any component to provide for modified preview information. For example converter can be configured to modify the resolution of audio or images or to convert one file format into another e.g. TIFF into PDF or MP3 into WAV . In a specific embodiment converter can be configured to convert text in a component into audio and can be further configured to covert audio in a component into text.

In some examples message filtration module can filter the data of components to provide introductory segments or customized segments as preview information in preview window . For example consider that message is a text document e.g. electronic facsimile with multiple pages and a few embedded graphics e.g. images . Rule can specify that a quarter page segment of the message is to form the preview information. As such message filtration module can generate component to include one fourth of the first page for presentation in preview window . In other examples message can be a voice message e.g. voicemail that is 90 seconds long. Responsive to rule triggering on for example an attribute specifying the message as voice mail message filtration module can provide an introductory segment of 10 seconds as preview information of the 90 second long voice message. In some examples messaging system and the above described elements i.e. the elements shown and or indicated by reference numerals above can be implemented differently in various designs operations configurations and materials and are not limited to the descriptions provided herein. As such any of the elements in can reside on one or more computing devices regardless of whether a computing device is a server or a client. Or the elements in can be distributed over a network.

Message system can include a server system that includes for example a gateway server a storage server for storing messages e.g. in mailbox and file based data structures a synchronization server and a web server and a client system . Gateway server can be configured to at least receive messages from various transmit nodes and to store the messages in storage server . Gateway server or another server can also be configured to perform message decomposition and message filtration. As such gateway server can include a message decomposition module of and a message filtration module of . Storage server can be configured to operate as a mailbox repository in some examples and in other examples storage server can also be configured to operate a filtering rules repository and a filtered components repository both of . Synchronization server can be configured to synchronize messages between server system and client system . Web server is configured to provide a web portal for previewing information for messages via a web based interface.

In various examples client system can be implemented to host application software not shown as a communication device such as a personal computer a smart phone a fax machine or any other electronic communication device. Client system is shown to include a preview module an interaction module an access module a storage module a synchronization module synchronization all of which can constitute message preview elements . Client system is also shown to include an optional web browser application . Preview module can be configured to provide preview information modified preview information and or action inputs to perform an action thereby enabling a user to quickly and efficiently identify the type and content of a message and or contextual message information without selecting and retrieving the message content or contextual message information. In other examples preview module can be disposed external to client system . Interaction module can be configured to establish an interface through which client system can interact with server system . For example client system can send requests to server system and can receive responses therefrom through interaction module . To send a request to server system client system can use interaction module to connect to server system by establishing for example an HTTP connection. Subsequently interaction module can exchange data with server system specific to a request using for example an XML parser.

Storage module can be configured to store messages at client system . Storage module can be configured to actually store the messages or can be configured to store information as to where and how the messages are stored within or without client system . Access module can be configured as an interface to storage module . For example the content and the properties of a given message in storage module can be accessed and manipulated e.g. converted through access module . Storage module may be part of access module . In at least one embodiment access module can be configured to function as converter of .

Client system can also include synchronization interface synchronization to synchronize the messages e.g. electronic facsimiles voice messages emails and the like in storage server and storage module . Also synchronization interface can synchronize client system with server system to ensure that the states of messages at storage server are the same as the states of messages at storage module . Discrepancies between the state of messages at server storage and the state of messages at storage module can arise as a result from various events. Examples of such events include message deletion e.g. removing a message at server system and not at client system and vice versa message arrival e.g. a message arrives at server system and not at client system and the like. In some examples web browser can be configured to communicate via for example an HTTP connection with web server to provide web based access to preview information. Client system can implement server interface to support interaction to server system using real time protocol solutions e.g. SIP T.38 over the IP network. Server interface can support other protocols such as SMTP POP3 Telnet FTP and the like.

In various examples messaging system can be configured to facilitate receiving an electronic facsimile fax between two or more fax nodes such as any of transmission nodes and client system . Examples of such fax nodes include analog group 3 T.30 devices real time IP based T.38 devices client driven email applications cellular phone message applications packet based communication devices such as voice over internet protocol VoIP devices and other packet based network elements. As used herein the term node refers generally to a device as being connected to a computer network e.g. fax network . For example a node may be a computer fax machine personal digital assistant cell phone router switch or hub. In some instances a node is an endpoint such as any of transmit nodes and client system . As used herein the term network element refers generally to an element within message system that includes either computing hardware or software or both for facilitating network communications and may also refer to a call router e.g. as a server or as a software module a gateway a fax server a proxy server and the like. In some examples messaging system and the above described elements i.e. the elements shown and or indicated by reference numerals above may be implemented differently in various designs operations configurations and materials and are not limited to the descriptions provided herein.

In other examples preview window contains preview content which is associated with the message. For example a user opens a preview of a message sent by the sender John Smith using preview window when mouse pointer navigates or hovers over defined area . Further preview window can include additional attributes used for real time filtering. The attributes can further limit the presentation of preview content within preview window . The attributes can include one or more filters for filtering contents of a message prior to previewing the message. In some examples content filtration can occur prior to displaying preview content in preview window to minimize the user s exposure to irrelevant or undesired materials. In other examples content filtration can occur during the display of preview content in preview window . As such the attributes for real time filtration can be selected by activating another control over preview window . For example filtering the message in real time can include determining another relevant portion of the message e.g. an initial predetermined portion of an audio message . In still other examples message filtration can include compressing the message contents for display such as displaying multiple pages of a facsimile at a lower resolution using a single page or otherwise providing a lower resolution version of the message as part of the preview.

In some embodiments preview window can be placed proximate to either defined area or mouse pointer . In a specific embodiment preview window can be visible at interface until the interaction e.g. mouse over is terminated or expired according to a time limit set by the user. In addition to the dynamic control of the location of preview window the user also can adjust other aspects of preview window including its size and duration of its visibility. This allows preview window to remain active while allowing free movement of mouse pointer to perform other functionalities. While preview content is displayed in preview window preview content can be displayed in any manner. For example preview content can be displayed in another interface separate from communication interface .

In still other examples defined area can be a program designated e.g. using JavaScript area on interface . The defined area e.g. defined area can be in any shape or size located anywhere on the page i.e. interface display and can be configured by the user if desired. Further defined area can be visible or invisible to the user. The defined area operates as a control to prompt the preview of an associated message. Also mouse pointer can be controlled using hardware peripherals such as a standard mouse a trackball a keyboard pointer a touch screen or any interactive device. While mouse pointer is displayed in the form of an iconic arrow using various commercially available software and hardware can provide mouse pointer to visually appear as nearly any object the user desires. The user can navigate around interface by either using mouse pointer or a combination of navigating keystrokes. During operation upon a pre defined placement or interaction by the user e.g. initiating a mouse over control instructions can be executed at the client e.g. client to retrieve a preview of the message. The instructions can cause the client to request information from a server to automatically retrieve information associated with a message desired to be previewed. The retrieved data can be displayed in preview window as preview content . For example messaging system builds preview content by allocating and partitioning the associated message stored on a server e.g. storage server FIG. and thereafter extracts the relevant preview content using filters. The extracted preview content and or contextual message information is then forwarded to a client e.g. client . The client can be configured to field preview content requests receive preview content from the server process the preview content into preview module and display the preview content in preview window at interface . The server on the other hand can be configured to receive client requests for preview content generate preview content about relevant message content during filtration and forward the generated preview content to the client.

In a specific embodiment preview content can be a portion of a message containing a text or image document e.g. a first page of a fax or a section of a message containing voice data e.g. the first ten seconds of a voice message . Upon the detection of an interactive control e.g. mouse pointer over a defined area preview content associated with defined area or the message is displayed in real time or substantially real time at interface . In some examples messaging system includes an audio to text converter to translate the section of a voice message into text and displays the text in preview window . In other examples messaging system can include a text to audio converter to translate the portion of an electronic document into voice and project the voice stream through preview window . In some examples the term voice stream refers generally to a continuous flow of data packets representing a voice message over an IP network. If desired preview content can be stored in a cache to reduce the time required to access such preview information. As such the user examines preview content displayed in preview window to evaluate its message content and determines whether or not the message should be accessed in its entirety. In some examples system and the above described elements i.e. the elements shown and or indicated by reference numerals above can be implemented differently in design operation configuration and are not limited to the descriptions provided herein.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S an application e.g. a host server web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API program procedure or others . Further application includes a module of executable instructions for implementing a message decomposition module as well as modules of executable instructions for implementing a message filtration module and a preview module . Message decomposition module includes instructions for decomposing messages into components. In some cases message decomposition module can include instructions for associating identifiers representative of attributes to components. Message filtration module can be configured to generate filtered components and or real time filtered components. Preview module includes instructions for managing the presentation of preview information modified preview information and optionally the performance of an action based on the preview information.

The term computer readable medium refers at least in one embodiment to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge electromagnetic waveforms or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program code i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system is implemented as a hand held device. But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desktop computer or any other computing device. In at least one embodiment any of the above described delivery systems can be implemented as a single system or can implemented in a distributed architecture including multiple systems .

In view of the foregoing examples of a real time message preview control are described. Electronic messaging systems can be implemented using real time interfaces that are configured to control and manage communication dynamically over an IP network. Further electronic messaging systems can be implemented using preset filter controls to manage message content and or contextual message information prior to previewing. The described techniques can be used to emulate other electronic messaging technologies by receiving messages with generated message preview independent of content storing.

In other examples electronic messaging systems can be implemented from a sending fax node to a receiving fax node. The fax nodes e.g. sending fax node receiving fax node can be of the form of a personal computer a computing device a mobile device a mobile telephone a facsimile device a personal digital assistant PDA or other electronic device. Messages can be of the form of email messages facsimiles text messages short messaging service SMS web pages audible messages multimedia messaging service MMS or other message types. Various embodiments can apply to any electronic message and are not limited to electronic messages.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown throughout as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements.

Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C Flex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment may provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

