---

title: Linking additional content to a being-consumed video content item
abstract: Links are provided in association with video content that reference and allow navigation to additional content related to the video content. Links may be embedded in the video content metadata or sent separately and synchronized with the video content via time stamps. Selection of the links allows a user to view the additional content or to view the video content item along with the additional content to provide a richer and deeper personalized viewing experience. The video content may be analyzed to determine whether additional content may be available. If additional content is identified, the video content item may include the additional content or the video content may receive links to the additional content. Additional content that is relevant to the user based on the user's viewing history, viewing patterns, viewing behavior, demographic profile, etc. may be identified for association with a given video content item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374630&OS=09374630&RS=09374630
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09374630
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140603
---
Video consumers today have embraced interactive television TV which offers a completely unique and enjoyable experience. A growing number of consumers choose to view content via streaming alternatives because they like more control over the video content. In addition the way people use devices to access content is changing as multi screening or the use of multiple screens simultaneously has become a normal operating mode for many consumers. Consumers are frequently using a second device in some capacity while watching television. This media multitasking may be great for consumers but with people dividing their attention between screens the pressure may be increased for advertisers content creators content providers etc. to create compelling and or engaging viewing experiences that span devices and content delivery systems. Additionally in stream advertising holds the potential to tell advertisers whether viewers watched a given advertisement whether they followed through on embedded calls to action and so forth. Accordingly the viewer s behavior may require taking a holistic approach to the content strategy by adjusting advertising strategies to fit the consumer s multi screen behavior and the context of how consumers use each device.

Currently additional interactive content may be included with some video content that is provided by the content owners providers. Unfortunately the additional content may often be very generic minimally personalized and or merely based on the being consumed content. However service providers may have more data on the user viewer which may allow service providers to personalize the additional content more efficiently.

Embodiments of the present invention provide content additional to being consumed video content by changing or creating adding links or uniform resource locators URLs to additional content in association with the being consumed content which allows a user to view the additional content or to view a video content item along with the additional content for providing a richer and deeper personalized viewing experience and for giving more control to the user during the viewing experience. Links or URLs may be embedded in the content metadata or may be sent separately and synchronized with the video stream.

For example if a user is viewing a television video content presentation such as a presentation provided by CNN there may be other new additional content on the CNN website or the user s social networks that may be of interest to the user. There may also be advertisements that may be related to the content that the user is viewing. For example if the user is viewing news about an event that happened in New York there may be advertisements related to tourism events products and services associated with New York that may be available as additional content that may be provided to the user.

According to one embodiment being consumed content may be analyzed to determine whether additional content may be available. If additional content is identified a link or URL for the additional content may be created and associated with the being consumed content or an existing link or URL associated with the being consumed content may be modified.

Further the additional content linked or referenced to the being consumed content may be static such as a webpage or previously generated advertisement or the additional content may be dynamic wherein a user may be directed to additional content being developed and presented in real time based on various factors. For dynamic additional content a service provider may update links e.g. URLs based on various factors such as a user s viewing history a user s viewing behavior viewing patterns a user s profile user demographic information a user s social networks and the current content being viewed. Further the dynamic additional content may be updated based on one or more factors such as time of day additional interactive content business rules agreements or actions by the user or service provider etc.

Accordingly these options may create more value for the owners providers of the additional content and may prove more benefit for the user by further enhancing the user s viewing experience and by providing targeted content to the user.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention provide content additional to being consumed video content by changing or creating adding links or uniform resource locators URLs to additional content in association with the being consumed content which allows a user to view the additional content or to view a video content item along with the additional content for providing a richer and deeper personalized viewing experience and for giving more control to the user during the viewing experience. The links or URLs may be embedded in the content metadata or may be sent separately and synchronized with the video stream. A content service provider may provide additional content that is relevant to the user based on the user s viewing history viewing patterns viewing behavior demographic profiles etc. Further many factors may trigger the updating of the additional content. These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.

According to embodiments video content service providers may change or create links or URLs in association with the being consumed content or available for consumption content e.g. television shows movies etc. after the content is being received by the content owner e.g. content consumer . The embodiments may apply to all types of content such as linear live nonlinear or web video streams. Embodiments may provide for the association of the links URLs to be performed via a variety of mechanisms. In one embodiment the links URLs may be embedded in the metadata of the being consumed content. In another embodiment the links URLs may be sent separately and synchronized with the video stream via time stamps.

The links or URLs may be created and associated with a given content item e.g. television show or currently associated links or URLs may be modified. Although a content item may be encrypted on playback of the content item the new or modified link or URL may be dynamically inserted in the metadata. The link or URL in the metadata may allow consumers to view content via a linked or referenced website or may cause the linked or referenced content to be played in a viewing window in proximity to or overlying the currently being consumed content the link or URL may trigger targeted advertising per device or user. The added or updated link or URL may contain different information than a previous link or URL or may enhance the viewing experience while keeping the older link. The change may be dynamic and in real time. This will affect all types of content.

For example if a consumer is watching program1 on channel X and the program is national in scope then a URL or link associated with the program may be different than a URL or link for program2 that is local. For example an advertising link added in association with program1 may be significantly different for a national audience than an advertisement link added in association with program2 for a local audience. According to embodiments the service provider may change the URLs or links in program2 on the fly on the device or in the server as needed based on factors associated with the local audience. The link could be triggered if the customer is watching the content or triggered by time slot on an associated viewing guide or any other triggering information. Once the trigger is enabled then the new URL or link will be associated with the program. Additionally the link or URL through the program itself may be adjusted based on the viewing experience of the user. The service provider may perform the URL or link insertion or modification after the received trigger or if the service provider decides to change the URL or link based on one or more factors or business rules e.g. certain advertisements only to be provided during certain time slots .

The links or URLs added in association with the content may be changed or modified based on where the consumer is accessing the information. For example if the consumer is viewing the content via a television viewing guide and attempts to access the link from the viewing guide the service provider may insert a link that is different from a link that the consumer may receive if the content is being consumed through channel tuning. Each channel or program that contains the link or URL may be displayed with an icon or other identifying item and the icon may be dynamically shown with different attributes or deleted based on the link or URL information sent by the service provider. Content that is national versus local may be distinguished wherein a link or URL may be changed or modified based on the desired experience by the service provider. The change or modification may be per program channel or different scenes within a channel or program.

According to embodiments the links URLs may be correlated with content program metadata providers as received by the service provider. The links URLs may be related to the program metadata collected by the service provider. For example based on program title cast time of showing etc. the service provider may create a link URL based on the collected information and the link URL may be inserted based on the collected metadata.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described. is a block diagram of a system for providing links URLs hereinafter referred to as links or URLs interchangeably to additional content as described above. Components of the system may operate as a distributed system where each component is accessed via a suitable network or the components may operate together as an integrated system. As illustrated Internet available channel data and metadata content server guide data and URL data may be provided. For example Internet available channel data and metadata may include video content data and metadata available on the Internet such as YouTube Hulu etc. Content server may include video content data and metadata available via a service provider such as cable television CATV services system as illustrated and described below with reference to satellite television provider etc. The data and metadata may include information such as video content title storyline cast genre rating release date images etc. Guide data may include channel information programming information network information etc. URL data may include interactive content or pointers to the interactive content on the internet associated with the content provided by the content owners providers A B or C . Updating the additional interactive content associated with the video content items may be based on time which may be triggered at a specific point of time in the video content based on content additional content available based on user behavior e.g. the manner in which the user consumes the video content and the additional content or video content being played and or may be based on action when the user switches to a particular video content or other actions for example playing rewinding pausing stopping and hovering with respect to the video content item etc.

Local DVR and Network DVR may also be provided which may store DVR recording locally while recording from a TV connected to a set top box or may store the DVR recordings on an IP network when recording from an IP enabled devices respectively. When a user records a video content item on the local or the network DVR the video content item may be recorded with the associated additional content. In accordance with one embodiment when the user decides to playback the recording the client application may trigger the system to analyze the existing associated additional content and replace it with new more relevant additional content to be associated with the requested DVR recording. In another embodiment if the user stops or pauses the playback of the recording for longer periods of time another URL may be identified and inserted or replaced taking into account the current user behavior. The new URL may point to newer more relevant additional content that may be available. In another embodiment when the user presses fast forward or rewind or stops or pauses the playback for a longer period of time etc. the URLs or links may be updated and different URLs or links may be associated with the content item based on the behavior of the user consuming the video content.

Further as the video content item is being provided on the user s viewing device the user behavior may be monitored and saved in the user behavior database to assist in identifying in real time or at regular intervals newer or more relevant additional content to present to the user s viewing device .

According to an embodiment the rendered experience may be presented according to a variety of display configurations including scaling the being consumed video content in a video viewer inside the provided Internet based content or the linear video may be managed by the service provider based on the business agreements with content providers owners manufacturers third party advertisers the user etc.

The Internet available channel data and metadata content server guide data and URL data may be provided to a data mining engine at a server to analyze and sort the data and metadata associated URL data and metadata and associate the channel data and metadata with the guide data . The URL data may be hidden or may be displayed to the user. The associated channel guide data may be cached. The cache is illustrated in as a remote element but may be integrated with the server or the client application . As new information becomes available the associated channel guide data may be updated in the cache .

According to one embodiment the cached associated channel guide data may be specific to a user profile. The system may include a data services system which may comprise information such as billing data permissions and authorization data user profile data etc. and its data may be stored in a user database . The data services system may be accessed by the data mining engine for checking permissions subscriptions and profile data for associating channel and guide data to specific users.

According to an embodiment the data mining engine may also be operable to monitor the user behavior and store it in the user behavior database as the user consumes the video content items and or any additional content items. The data from the user behavior database can be used to assist the system in further identifying in real time URLs and links with newer and more relevant additional content items that may become available to be presented to the user from various entities such as the consumer electronics manufacturer content owners content providers third party advertisers etc.

According to another embodiment new URLS or links may be inserted in real time based on an analysis performed in relation to the user s interactions with the additional content items on the user s viewing device and or the user s secondary device if it may be in use. As can be appreciated and as mentioned earlier the URLs or links may be updated or inserted based on various factors such as the user profile user s interactions with the additional content items user s viewing history time of viewing location of the viewing device being consumed content business rules agreements etc. For example targeting advertising links may be added to a being consumed content item if the location of the viewing device is moved to a location associated with available targeted advertising.

As illustrated in various endpoint devices may be utilized to access video content that can leverage HTML or web technologies to display video content with additional interactive content. Embodiments of the present invention may be applied to any video decoding display device that can run an associated Internet browser as part of the user interface application layer. For example endpoint devices may include but are not limited to a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone a computing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer etc. a wireless computing device such as a tablet computing device a television such as an Internet connected television or a television connected to a network connected device such as a set top box STB . An endpoint device may be utilized to access a client application .

The client application may be operable to receive a request from a user for accessing a video content item that may or may not have associated additional content identify additional content that may be associated based on various factors and insert a URL or link from URL data with a video service that may be displayed and rendered on a TV screen or other display device in conjunction with the video service.

According to an embodiment updating an already associated URL or link may also be performed based on the currently being consumed content and analyzing the viewing patterns or other factors associated with the user. For example a user may be viewing college football game airing on a channel provided by a service provider. A university associated with one of the teams may associate additional content related to their academic offerings etc. to the football game content item and links to the additional content may be added in association with the football game program. The user may have selected the associated additional content and may be accessing the additional content such as current university course offerings in a separate window on the same display device along with the game content item or via a website available on a separate device. There may also be other teams playing at the same time and may be airing on different channels provided by the same service provider. If the user stops the playback of a particular game and switches the channel to a next channel and associated game while the additional content associated with the first football game video content is being presented on the user s viewing device embodiments may allow the service provider to update the URL or links associated with the first football game video content that may be on display on the user s viewing device with the URLs or links associated with the second football game content item on the next channel switched to by the user.

According to yet another embodiment when the being consumed content item is replaced with another content item that is associated with additional content and there are additional content items associated with the previously being consumed content item on the user s display device then additional content for the previously being consumed content and the currently being consumed content may be displayed on the viewer s device such that the user may choose to continue consuming the additional content items associated with the previously being consumed content or the additional content items associated with the currently being consumed content.

As illustrated and described below an indication may be provided by the client application to the user in the form of an icon in a guide display or a menu option that may indicate the availability of additional content. There may also be a special button or other selectable control available on a remote control or other suitable hard or soft key selection device which may be used to request additional content based on availability. A secondary screen companion device such as a tablet with an associated content provision application may also be used to allow the request of the additional content experience on the display screen such as the television . Other suitable means for interacting with and controlling available and received content includes touch command voice command gesture command and combinations of various functionality interface methods and systems.

According to one embodiment once the user requests access to the additional content through any one of the above mechanisms the video content being played full screen may be overlaid or replaced by the additional content via associated website address URL that has been associated with the video content thus creating a web browser type experience as illustrated in and providing the user with more interactive additional information and deeper and richer content from the content owner content provider third party sponsor or provider etc.

The additional content may comprise updated information feeds from a social media website associated with the being consumed video content tailored advertisements news items other videos and the like that may be of interest to the user based on user preferences third party sponsored content and the like. The associated channel guide data URL data may be stored in a cache located on the server on the application or may be located remotely and accessed via a network.

According to embodiments an indication icon may be displayed in proximity to a display of the associated video content item. According to one embodiment the icon may appear as an overlay atop the viewing guide user interface for indicating the availability of interactive content in association with one or more content items provided or available via the guide interface . As should be appreciated the icon is for purposes of example only and is not exhaustive of the vast number of visual indicators that may be displayed to alert users of the availability of associated interactive content. For example such an indication may be provided via a displayed banner mosaic tile audio alert text string or the like. In addition a secondary screen companion device such as a tablet with an application operative for passing instructions for requesting interactive content may also be used to indicate availability of interactive content and to allow the request and initiation of the interactive experience on the display screen such as the TV .

According to one embodiment the icon may serve as a selectable control with which a user may request and initiate provision of interactive content in association with a URL associated with a given video content item as described above. Selection of the icon may cause a display in the guide if Internet based information associated with the video that will enhance the user s consumption of the video content as described herein. Alternatively the icon may be provided in association with one of the content items listed in the guide for providing Internet based information associated with the listed content item.

As should be appreciated the icon is but one example of a selectable functionality control that may be used to request information associated with a given URL. For example a selectable control for requesting the interactive content available via an associated URL may be provided in a menu of options or may be provided as a designated button or key on a remote control device or on a hard or soft keyboard associated with the viewing device e.g. TV . In addition an indication icon may be used to alert a user of the availability of interactive content that may be requested via other means such as voice or gesture activation.

Referring to a full screen linear video display is illustrated in which video content is provided and for which a URL may be associated for providing interactive content as described herein. As with the viewing guide illustrated in an indicating icon may be provided for indicating the availability of additional content and one or more means as described above may be enabled for allowing a selectable request of the associated additional content. As described above for the viewing guide an indication of available content may be provided through various other means such as banners mosaic tiles audio alerts text strings or the like or via a secondary screen companion device such as a tablet with an application operative for passing instructions for requesting interactive content may also be used to indicate availability of interactive content and to allow the request and initiation of the interactive experience on the display screen such as the TV .

Further embodiments may provide the user with the ability to enter an interactive website mode if the user selects the additional content for consumption. For example an advertisement may be provided in a banner form that overlays the being consumed content item. In another example the advertiser s website may be overlaid on top of the being consumed content item. Once the user is finished accessing the additional content the user may switch back to viewing the original being consumed content item. As can be appreciated in case of nonlinear content when the user switches back to the original being consumed content item the system may be able to continue from the same point the user switched from the original being consumed content item to the additional interactive content item. Whereas in case of a linear content item the user may be taken to the current point that may be streaming at that point of time.

Referring now to after requesting additional content associated with a URL inserted in or associated with a video content item as described above a hybrid interactive video experience may be provided. This experience is a result of downloading the associated URL with the hybrid web experience to the video display device. As can be appreciated the additional content may be displayed in a variety of different ways per the discretion of the content owner content provider etc. For example upon choosing to experience a given additional content associated with the full screen video playing as illustrated in the hybrid display of linear video combined with the additional content may be presented to user as illustrated in . The hybrid video viewing experience may include a blend of traditional video content with personalized additional content from service providers content providers and or content owners such as broadcasters online providers and manufacturers including digital video recording DVR providers video on demand VOD providers interactive advertising and content personalization providers voting system providers games and social networking as well as a variety of video programming related content and services.

As should be appreciated the hybrid interactive video experience illustrated in is for purposes of example and is not exhaustive of the vast number of layouts that may be provided. That is the display screen may be presented as an instance of a browser type display where a variety of content items available via the associated URL may be displayed in various locations and where the video content item from which the user requested the additional interactive content may be presented in a minimized embedded player with other additional content wrapped around it. Alternatively each additional content item may be presented in one or more mosaic type tiles that may be disposed on a display screen while a display of the linear video is reduced accordingly. Alternatively the hybrid content illustrated in may be provided via a browser within a browser setup one with the video content and another with the additional content .

The additional content provided via the URL may comprise any number of Internet based content items for example a social media website for an associated television show with real time feeds cast profiles messaging etc. Other content items may include featured upcoming event information various other sponsored shows previews program guides third party advertisements based on the user profiles and tastes third party sponsorships etc. as well as other advertisements or other useful or helpful information. All of the additional content illustrated in may be navigable based on predetermined business rules of content providers.

According to an embodiment the associated URL may be automatically updated based on time of day user behavior and available content or based on action from a user service provider content creator content provider third party content provider or sponsor based on business rules and agreements or the like. Further the URL may also be updated based on business agreements in order to display an advertisement or other content based on a scene being shown as part of the video.

The video content items and additional content items may be provided in a variety of display configurations. Following from the above example an example news and entertainment content provider may choose to scale their video and place it in the top left corner of a display surface align their news stories along the right side and align their video clips along the bottom. The user may through a functionality control interface select a companion video clip text based news item or other content item within an interactive environment that while the user is tuned to the television channel associated with the being consumed video content.

Further embodiments may allow the user to access the additional content based on the user s needs. For example user may be able watch the additional content in a video pane and choose to hear the additional content by selecting the video pane or choose to hear the being consumed video content.

The method then proceeds to OPERATION where new additional content may be identified that may be provided to the user s viewing device. In one embodiment the new additional content may include recently available content content relevant to the user content relevant to location of the requesting device content relating to time of viewing etc.

Once the additional content item s are identified at OPERATION the method proceeds to OPERATION where the system updates edits and or inserts links or URLs to the new additional content. For example the links e.g. URLs pointing to the new additional content may be inserted into the content stream metadata etc. As another example the links e.g. URLs pointing to the new additional content may comprise time stamps and may be sent separately from the video stream. The URLs may be synchronized with the video stream via the time stamps. If the content is already associated with additional content the previously associated links e.g. URLs may be replaced or updated by new links e.g. URLs which may provide the newly identified additional content to the viewing device that is personalized for the user.

The method then proceeds to OPERATION where the requested video content item with added or updated additional content may be rendered on the user s viewing device by the client application .

Further as the video content item with links to additional content is being provided on the user s viewing device the user behavior on how he she may be consuming the video content item or the additional content may be monitored and saved in the user behavior database at OPERATION to assist in performing an ongoing analysis either in real time or at regular intervals to identify if there may be newer or more relevant additional content that may be available at OPERATION to be presented to the user s viewing device.

The received channel data and metadata may then be analyzed at OPERATION . At OPERATION new additional content that may be provided to the user s viewing device which may have either become available recently or may be relevant to the user due to location of the requesting device time of viewing etc. may be identified.

It may be noted that when the content data and metadata are received at OPERATION they may include additional interactive content that may associated to the video content by the content owners providers. The URLs or links pointing to the additional content may be static and generic for all users. According to embodiments the service provider may have user s viewing pattern data user subscription and entitlements data user demographic profile data etc. which may allow the service provider to provide the user with more personalized additional content. This may be in the best interest of the user the service provider the content provider owner and other related parties such as third party advertisers etc.

Once the URLS or links pointing to the new additional content are identified at OPERATION the method may proceed to OPERATION where any currently associated links may be replaced or updated by new links. It may be noted that some video content items that are received at OPERATION may not contain any associated additional content. Accordingly the links may be inserted. The new links may be sorted and associated with the guide data by the data mining engine .

According to an embodiment at OPERATION a generic link may also be added in association with the video content item through various mechanisms. The generic link may then be mapped to various additional content items that may be updated dynamically as new additional content becomes available. The generic link may also be triggered to point to other additional content that may be identified as relevant content. The relevancy of the additional content may be based on various factors related to the user which allows the system to provide targeted content to the user.

The method then proceeds to OPERATION where an indication of availability of additional content may be provided via an indicative icon through the guide user interface as illustrated earlier with respect to or an indication may be provided on the user s viewing device as the user may be viewing the video content item as illustrated in .

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to embodiments client application may include the client application described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to one embodiment the client application may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the client application to allow users to jump to desired channels by entering a request based information such as channel name logo call letter or programs as described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the client application . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment the client application may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine a device s location.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

