---

title: Internet based data, voice and video alert notification communications system
abstract: A method of managing how electronic files are created, stored, viewed, edited, distributed, shared, controlled and archived by a plurality of users from a plurality of remote devices. The method includes creating a virtual space on a centralized server; transmitting at least one electronic file via wireless or wireline communication link to the centralized server that stores the file and file properties; receiving and processing the virtual space, file and file properties on the centralized server over the communication link; and assigning said file by an automated method to a plurality of authorized individuals and groups. The centralized server contains a user rights manager that identifies access control capabilities for a plurality of individuals and groups to act upon the file, and the assigning step is performed automatically without human intervention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633039&OS=09633039&RS=09633039
owner: 
number: 09633039
owner_city: Sewell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140925
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 580 383 filed on Oct. 13 2006 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 726 114 filed on Oct. 13 2005. The contents of both applications are hereby incorporated in this application by reference.

The present invention relates to the bi lateral wireless and wireline communications of voice data video and imagery between remote devices remote servers or combinations thereof.

Since the turn of the millennium electronic communication is in constant transformation to meet growing global demand. The telecommunications industry is in the midst of a massive and rapid change. All electronic communication paths whether by wire line cable or wireless are converging and collapsing into each other on common data and communications protocols. The separate domains of telephone cable wireless and the internet are rapidly converging into an integrated and ubiquitous communications platform tied together by the common electronic language of Internet Protocol IP .

The integration of the telecommunications industry with the enterprise software industry presents extraordinary challenges in the development of new communication service solutions. The results of meeting these challenges include significantly improved services and lower life cycle costs. As stated by Ivan Seidenberg CEO of Verizon Communications what used to be separate domains phone calls photos music movies games work are now unified in a continuous stream of bits and bytes. Costs and barriers to entry into telecommunications systems will decline and the pricing for commodity voice and data services will be deflationary. With the capacity and capabilities of the IP based telecommunications networks rapidly increasing the integration of value added data applications are required to differentiate service offerings increase revenues prevent churn and to create new wealth.

Employing digital convergence of communications and information provides real time integration of voice data video and images thus enabling the present invention to uniquely and effectively meet current key and emerging requirement drivers as well as mission specific requirements emanating from public and private sector entities and individual consumers.

Even with the emerging capabilities the drawbacks of current systems are rooted in the lack of comprehensive integration between communications systems and information management systems. Predominantly these drawbacks are exemplified by non existent or limitations in real time two way communications and management controls of a plurality of remote devices from any given remote device identification of individual and event specific workflow and content object level rights management security voice data video and image solutions delivered as services and converged or unified automated message handling.

While some existing inventions provide partial capabilities as compared to the present invention they lack the system architecture to provide robust features and benefits. The following patents in Table 1 appear to present certain functions and features that may provide components that address certain of the problems addressed above.

Accordingly there does not appear to be any known prior art methods systems or patents that disclose or address the potential advantages of a comprehensive integration between communications systems and information management systems. Such systems should include real time two way communications and management controls of a plurality of remote devices from any given remote device identification of individual and event specific workflow and content object level rights management security voice data video and image solutions delivered as services and converged or unified automated message handling. Such an innovative method and system has not been seen or achieved in the relevant art. The following describes such a method and system.

The above noted problems which are inadequately or incompletely resolved by the prior art are completely addressed and resolved by the present invention.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is a real time converged communications and information system said system comprising a central computer server said central computer server having data storage a plurality of remote user devices each having communications access to the central computer server and said plurality of remote user devices also having communications access to each of the other plurality of remote user devices encryption means to ensure that communications from any of the plurality of remote user devices is transmitted only to the central server or to one or more of the plurality of other remote user devices a remote machine server said remote machine server having communication access to each of the plurality of remote user devices and a central communications server said central communications server having communications access to each of the plurality of remote users devices said central communications service having communication access to public and private communication networks.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention is a real time virtual workplace collaborative communications system said system comprising at least one central server said each at least one central server each having data storage a plurality of remote user devices having communications access to the central server and said plurality of remote user devices also having direct communications access to each of the other plurality of remote user devices encryption means to ensure that communication from any of the plurality of remote user devices is transmitted only to the central server or to one of the plurality of other remote user devices a content management computer server said content management computer server having communications access to the central computer server said content management server also managing the creation storage display and receipt of electronic data a remote machine server said remote machine server having communication access to each of the plurality of remote user devices and a central communications server said central communications server having communications access to each of the plurality of remote users devices said central communications service having communication access to public and private communication networks.

In still another preferred embodiment of the present invention a method for managing communication notifications transmitted to a remote device wherein said notifications are of an occurrence of a pre defined or calculated event which are maintained within a plurality of remote devices the method comprising the steps of after the detection of an occurrence of a pre defined or calculated event transmitting an identifier through a communications link to a centralized server that stores the event and provides event definition and receiving and processing the identifier by the centralized server over the communications link wherein said centralized server includes a knowledge manager that identifies notification tasks further wherein said tasks are performed automatically without human intervention and said set of tasks are selected from at least one of a plurality of remote devices coupled to the centralized server where the centralized server provides a task sequence a sender specific task and a receiver specific task and where a task manager automatically transmits the results of the tasks to a plurality of remote devices.

Yet a further preferred embodiment of the present invention is a method for providing electronic calendar events that are created stored viewed edited distributed shared controlled and archived by a plurality of users from a plurality of remote devices the method comprising the steps of creating an event that contains calendar properties said properties to include event description modify existing events check events sent check events received assign zero or more attendees check attendee availability identify for public or restricted viewing set periodic reminders and communication methods assign event manager identify start and finish date and time and assign notifications transmitting said calendar properties via wireless or wireline communication link to a centralized server for storage receiving and processing calendar properties on said centralized server over said communication link wherein the centralized server containing a user rights manager that identifies access control capabilities for a plurality of individuals and groups to act upon said calendar event and the centralized server further containing an automated method for notifying said attendees and event manager about said calendar properties automatically without human intervention.

The invention will be best understood by reading the following detailed description of the several disclosed embodiments in conjunction with the attached drawings that briefly described below.

The present invention is described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments specifically set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like reference numbers refer to like system elements and method steps throughout.

The present invention is a converged telecommunications and information management system that offers interoperability between disparate voice data video radio and machine to machine systems. An embodiment of the present invention comprises a unified communications system that enables the simultaneous creation storage display edit distribution sharing control and archive of voice data video and image communications from and to a plurality of remote devices through at least one of the aforementioned communications paths.

By integrating a diversity of communications architectures with separate service logic and delivery equipment new communications and information services can be deployed without having to redesign telecommunication switches remote display devices and network infrastructure to support said new services. This approach enables both large and small entities to be highly competitive as it facilitates deployment of service delivery solutions amongst service providers making it easier and cheaper for a provider to offer its customers with more service choices.

The present invention offers significant advantages over prior art since it embodies through a single solution the ability to deliver a multitude of communications and information service solutions that seamlessly and simultaneously integrate a plurality of disparate remote devices and networks. This approach results in immediate on demand service delivery ad hoc communications and information management where infrastructure is unavailable use of existing infrastructure and remote devices low total cost of ownership and unified messaging and workflow.

The present invention is comprised of several reusable modular components each of which can be operated independently or in combination thereof to achieve specific end user results. A variety of service solutions are provided allowing for seamless integration of existing services and data networks including proprietary platforms and permitting enterprise end users to interconnect their traditional communications platforms information management systems and existing software applications to new wireline and wireless delivery platforms. The present invention helps organizations manage day to day and mission critical aspects of their operations through integration of all information communications and processes into a single unified converged system. The present invention is also applicable to all basic functions of an organization regardless of the organization s business or charter such as business non profit organizations non governmental organizations governments academia and other entities to include individual workflow.

Utilization of the present invention replaces two or more independent software applications and or hardware systems thus eliminating the need for external interfaces previously required between systems and resulting in real time situational assessment of all systems and processes continuity of operations interoperability between humans and disparate machines and improved reporting through a common operating picture. Additional benefits include but are not limited to standardization lower maintenance greater operational efficiency reduced errors quicker implementation of new or enhanced processes lower life cycle costs and simplified training Major components include a common user interface unified database rules based decision management system and network operations center which enable cross platform cross industry and cross function operations.

Real time functionality enables the automated delivery and management of solutions in response to conditions presented by either human or machine interface. The present invention enables users to deliver and manage individual and facility specific solution tasks extend area and effectiveness of operations provide security and non security related acknowledgements maintain battle rhythm support unified communications for joint field offices and enable each user e.g. agency business unit or individual to build their own kingdoms and then at any time link each kingdom together both horizontally and vertically up the chain of command. The present invention provides real time interoperability with existing mobile and wireline computers communications systems customer premise equipment devices systems sensors and public and private network. The core architecture results in a solution that is extensible flexible adaptable scalable reliable malleable and highly secure to meet existing and future requirements and to interoperate with both existing and emerging communications and data systems Inherent design features empower users through a single interface that integrates core systems applications to include the management of documents projects tasks expenditures assets personnel directories personal contact information telephony public and VoIP emails facsimiles pagers text messages instant messages alarms content notifications video events forms calendars users visitors message recipients acknowledgements resolutions object level and individual security rights usage analog and digital machine to machine sensors 

The present invention embodies through a single solution a multitude of features that eliminate the need for various disparate systems and simultaneously provide unique capabilities and significant enhancements in communications and information management.

The present invention is advantageous because it embodies through a single solution the ability to deliver a plurality of communications and information service solutions that seamlessly and simultaneously integrate a plurality of disparate remote devices and networks. This approach results in immediate on demand service delivery ad hoc communications and information management where infrastructure is unavailable use of existing infrastructure and remote devices low total cost of ownership and unified messaging and workflow.

The present invention offers a real time interoperable communications and information sharing platform designed with distributed network intelligence in centralized databases resulting in service delivery solutions that are independent of other networks and remote display devices. By integrating a diversity of communications architectures with separate service logic and delivery equipment new communications and information services can be deployed without having to redesign telecommunication switches remote display devices and network infrastructure to support said new services. The result is a unified system that can transform data into actionable communication and information displayed in a user friendly environment applicable to a wide ranging menu of easily incorporated service options.

The underlying architecture to achieve said interoperability is illustrated in . As shown in the flow of how a plurality of remote devices shares communications and information to from and between each other via a combination of proprietary inventions and public and private networks. Communication and information requests from remote devices are directed over a communication path to an available information server in the Common Hosting Environment CHE . The communication paths include all voice data video and images transported via one or in combination of the following to include but not limited to the Public Switched Telephone Network World Wide Web Internet Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN Wide Area Network WAN Local Area Network LAN satellite land mobile radio WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX broadband over powerlines and other wireline and wireless networks. The communications and information traffic is encrypted using an encryption engine and decrypted by either communication server or information server . Requests from remote devices reach the database server where they are processed and then return a response to the requesting remote device via a selected communication path or direct a response to an external portal which may also include an external device or service.

Inbound communications from a remote device that is voice enabled are trafficked via an appropriate communication path to the communications server for processing and return via aforementioned process. Communication requests inbound via the PSTN may employ an existing dial plan on the communications server to first authenticate and then select the communication method to be instantiated. The Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF signaling selection is passed through the communication server to the database server where a knowledge manager associates the communications with a multi mode response. In addition a database record is generated and stored in a communications queue where a service acts upon said record for the purpose of supporting further communications and information sharing processing and transport.

Communication requests inbound via IP enabled device such as a mobile PDA are passed to the information server for processing in accordance with the aforementioned process for PSTN traffic. Communication requests inbound from remote data devices such as sensors may constitute either analog or digital formats and communicate directly with a service listening for incoming requests . The incoming request is processed to identify the inbound source device and to respond as directed by the knowledge manager residing on the information server . The knowledge manager can also be directed to provide further action in the event that no inbound communications are received from a remote device for a given time period.

Through a service oriented architecture the present invention enables effective communication data sharing and activity coordination using remote devices that are agnostic to hardware and software architecture or operating systems offering interoperability between dissimilar communications protocols or devices and ensuring the integration of disparate and non homogeneous information sources used in provisioning real time solutions and common operating picture COP necessary for mission specific operations. The resulting solutions are scalable malleable and extensible providing cost effective and rapid service delivery solution options to a variety of simple or complex problems. Technology features include an enterprise application environment for creating and managing integrated and increasingly sophisticated user defined software products and services solutions via a simple to use Graphical User Interface GUI . This approach effectively allows for enterprise wide network management and integration of existing and emerging services including proprietary platforms over wireless and wireline networks. Typical services supported include 

Ultimately providers of advanced communication and information networks are seeking to integrate new networks with existing and emerging applications solutions to allow for the development of increasingly sophisticated and specialized service delivery solutions. These solutions dramatically increase the added value to end users. The present invention allows infrastructure providers and end users to realize the full value of newly deployed high speed wireless and wireline networks.

The present invention consists of several modular reusable component systems and depending on the desired solution may be comprised of several elements to include 1 database 2 telecommunications 3 information management 4 enterprise application environment 5 mobile platform 6 encryption and 7 system applications. The enterprise application environment is used to develop templates and customized mission specific applications derived from internal and external agents as related to the platform.

The present invention provides a plurality of service delivery options that are categorized into three primary Levels of Service LoS as depicted in being communications information and process management . LoS features provide the fundamental building blocks that can be managed to provide a variety of service delivery options for user specific applications. LoS features illustrated in are a limited representation of the systems overall capabilities. Additional LoS features can be augmented via interoperability with internal or external agents . Administrator controls permit concatenation of LoS features thus facilitating management and deployment of complex and diverse solutions and to provide predictable service delivery via a variety of user interfaces system applications and communication paths.

End user functionality is achieved via a simple selection of mix and match of LoS features including communications information and process management . Each one of the LoS delivery options available is operable independently or as part of a unified solution. Combining LoS features results in a wide range of end user applications all of which share the following commonality 

Information systems LoS enables information creation and management among a plurality of remote devices via any communication path. Based upon end user selection information is transported via at least one of the said communications paths . Two primary goals of information systems LoS is to enable multi disciplinary information management operations for internal and external agents as a service delivery solution and to provide interoperability between the information services and the communication services.

Process management LoS provides workflow and logical process operations that are applicable to any problem or process involving communications and information. Process management LoS leverages data captured and transmitted through other LoS features to enable more efficient and accurate decision making via expert systems knowledge management and human decision processes.

Service delivery of LoS features are delivered via a mesh grid of separately located Managed Network Operation Centers MNOC each of which is configured as illustrated in . Located within each MNOC is a combination of computer hardware software and telecommunications equipment that constitute a CHE .

Open standards are incorporated which enable the MNOC as shown in to be interoperable with a plurality of internal and external agents and remote devices that support protocols compatible with said communication paths and offer a display screen or ear and mouth port for sound and recording for presenting said communications and information to end users. Since the MNOC internally offers robust computational power and LoS as shown in the remote devices can be very low end low cost technology systems.

Referring to the communication server is connected to the PSTN via a Primary Rate Interface or other telecommunications standard for carrying multiple voice and data transmissions. The CHE incorporates a block of Direct Inward Dialing DID numbers for outbound and inbound communications. Large volume call capacity can be achieved by creating modifying and terminating sessions with a Signaling System 7 SS7 network for setting up telephone calls and telephony services to include linking VoIP traffic to the PSTN . Another circuitous traffic route is that inbound and outbound transmissions to and from the MNOC may pass through a firewall a Virtual LAN VLAN and a router .

The CHE offers robust and flexible security services by locating an encryption engine between the firewall and the servers . This results in a highly sophisticated security service model capable of supporting various encryption algorithms such as Automated Encryption Standard AES and Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS . This approach enables encryption algorithms to be easily interchanged without disruption to MNOC operations provides secure operations for low cost remote devices that are generally unsecured and encrypts all packet data transmissions to and from the MNOC.

Scalability and reliability are achieved by interconnecting the CHE s between MNOC s as shown in utilizing mesh grid architecture as depicted in . As utilization is increased additional CHE s can be interconnected to provide any LoS feature without service interruption to the end user.

As shown in the CHE is consistently applied across all MNOC s enabling server farming IP delivery of voice data video and imaging communications. Delivery and scalable services are derived from a balanced partnership between multiple distinct domains software and hardware. The result is highly scalable and reliable distributed LoS features as shown in . System flexibility to scale is achieved by either up or out referring to options to either increase server capabilities or by interconnecting individual MNOCs as shown in . Scaling up takes advantage of multiple processors and large memory whereas by scaling out leverages the economics of using commodity server hardware to distribute the processing load across multiple servers in multiple network centers. illustrates that the individual MNOC s are interconnected through the internet or private network by passing through a firewall a Virtual LAN VLAN and a router .

As shown in scalability is further achieved by enabling LoS to maintain state across the servers within an individual MNOC or across MNOCs resulting in infinite scalability across multiple diverse and remotely located servers. The servers contain a proprietary session manager that provides a lasting connection between systems that are internal and external to the MNOC. The proprietary session manager located within the servers identifies session state to include at a minimum a unique session ID and other information that is uniquely required for the software application such as but not limited to information about the remote device and user s preferences and authorization levels such as evidence based security model. This approach eliminates the problems associated in maintaining session state between a plurality of servers and remote devices and enables server farming across windows based and non windows based servers within each MNOC.

The core communication architecture permits maximum flexibility in supporting converged communications and information sharing. The present invention offers three primary methods for initiating converged messaging via interface with PSTN internet or direct IP connection. Upon initiation of converged messaging at least one or a plurality of any LoS or combination of LoS is simultaneously executed via said communications paths .

Interoperability between diverse communication paths is achieved by incorporating Application Programming Interfaces APIs that are defined around a central core communication system such as Private Branch Exchange PBX . This design approach permits the core to handle the internal interconnection of a PBX cleanly abstracted from the specific protocols codices and hardware interfaces from the telephony applications. Any suitable existing or emerging telecommunications hardware and technology to perform essential functions of interoperability can be employed.

Incoming VoIP or PSTN telephony calls can be received by a PBX system which uses a dial plan for incoming call processing. The incoming dial plan consists of instructions and information that can be electronically created stored displayed edited distributed shared controlled and archived by a central server or by an external agent . Generally the incoming dial plan accepts incoming call information processes the information authenticates information received and then takes further action or terminates the call. Similarly for outgoing voice calls the outgoing dial plan can be triggered by any one of communication paths . The outgoing dial plan can be electronically created stored displayed edited distributed shared controlled and archived by a central server or by an external agent . Dial plan instruction sets and additional information are input to the system via Web Services Description Language WSDL or remote devices using a variety of formats to include but not limited to telephone keypad using DTMF voice or data systems.

The result is an agent that can simultaneously at least one or a plurality of any LoS or combination of LoS via said communications paths .

Two way voice communications enable capable remote devices to provide communications and information exchange with the CHE. The communication flow is designed using the built in knowledge and workflow manager which offers database driven send and response capabilities using Interactive Voice Response IVR or DTMF . Outbound and inbound messages can be configured for any combination of message flow and can incorporate user level authentication. Once the initiation is authenticated data are assimilated formatted and sent to the notification manager for queuing. The notification manager distributes data to appropriate modules for additional actions. For example once the queue record has been retrieved the notification is executed. The process returns a list of filenames that support the dial plan. Some examples include 1 directing DIDs to the call manager in support of a given dial plan 2 directing email addresses to the email server sending SMS text messages to the appropriate WSDL for distribution sending pager information to the appropriate WSDL for distribution and 3 sending task information to specific individuals for personnel management.

For each dial plan there exists a simple or complex Interactive Voice Response IVR or a DTMF call flow. The dial plan call flow depicted in represents a customizable data driven process where each instruction set contains many channel variables which define the form and function of the dial plan. The channel variables receive their data via the WSDL which communicates to the database. User controls are provided via a remote device for data or voice interface.

Whereas exemplifies the initiation of an alert notification represents the actual voice messaging process post initiation. In voice calls are made to all call recipients defined as contacts stored in the database server . Each contact is played a greeting . Simultaneous with the delivery of the greeting a listener monitors both the silence and background noise over the connection. Based on parameters stored in a knowledge manager if the listener determines that a machine e.g. answering machine or facsimile or other non human device has answered the telephone call then an alternate message or action is initiated . If a human recipient is detected a query requesting input for an authorization code is delivered. The recipient security code is replayed for authentication and validation . This process is repeated up to a selected maximum number of occurrences . Once authenticated against information stored in the database server the notification process continues. The main message is delivered and a response is prompted . Only valid extensions are allowed . If a valid extension is entered the contact response is played back and confirmation is required . A defined number of confirmation attempts is permitted . If exceed the notification process is disconnected . Once the response has been authenticated the notification process continues or is ended .

The primary communication process by and between internal and external agents is via WSDLs permitting voice and non voice e.g. text transmissions over said communication paths . Since certain external agents e.g. remote sensors are unable to communicate via a WSDL format a TCP IP socket interface listener service is employed that can receive a transmission using an anonymous or authenticated access control process. The listening service detects communication activities and then generates a unique data record identifier associated with each new transmission by external agent and transmits and stores said data from said external agent via said communication paths and database server respectively. A separate service compares said stored data against rules stored in the knowledge manager and acts accordingly to initiate a Converged Event Notification LoS CENL which is a notification process comprised of a least one or a plurality of LoS features . Said data record identifier includes external agent properties to ensure proper association between triggering external agent and the CENL. For example external agent properties include unique identification in any format that exactly identifies the device generating said data. The listener service enables continuation of process actions after the data record identifier is generated. Hence CENL features can be initiated via data streams issued over a TCP IP socket interface.

A unified message campaign consists of a combination of selected LoS features said LoS features having associated properties and recipients said recipients defined as humans and remote devices. System design has the flexibility to formulate unified message campaigns based on rules defined in a knowledge manager or to select from pre defined message templates. The objective of the campaigns is to deliver specific voice and non voice messages instructions and LoS to remote devices for interpretation and potential further action by other remote devices or humans.

Unified message campaign properties are formatted in accordance with the individual remote device or human receiving said message. Unified message campaigns can contained nested functions such as specific dial plans for voice systems or message plans for text based systems. Each nested notification contains nodal functions and procedures that collectively define the entire nested process. A node consists of individual actions on an instruction set. The nodes are finite instruction sets directed as machine to human or machine to machine commands. Hence the listener or recipient can be human or machine and can provide real time feedback to any node operation within a notification campaign.

Automated management of the communication process flow includes pre compiled commands and a knowledge manager that responds to certain conditions. This approach results in communications controlled by data driven events which are populated via internal and external agents. A knowledge manager provides typical automated process flow exemplified below 

4 Using the information collected a second database connection to the information server is established

7 The record identifiers are used to initiate a notification process and queue the data records in a spool directory

8 The spool directory is sent to the communications process manager which simultaneously initiates voice based LoS notifications and text based LoS information in accordance with rules defined in the knowledge manager

9 Once a data record is initiated in the communications process manager a unique data record is generated

10 The communications process manager monitors the transaction log event to ascertain notification status. The status indicator is used to drive additional unbounded instruction sets in the communications and information LoS processes.

The ENS replies to the request message after it has validated content. The reply provides information pertaining to the results of interim steps within the communication process. Some typical identification codes include 

The security model employs an encryption engine for converged telecommunications and information transport and storage resulting in a highly secure collaboration platform that is flexible to change security models without effecting overall system operations. Accordingly security is maintained on the IP platforms and on the communications links interacting with the system.

As previous illustrated within the CHE an encryption engine is located between the firewall and the servers . This results in a highly sophisticated security service model capable of supporting various encryption algorithms such as Automated Encryption Standard AES and Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS . This approach enables encryption algorithms to be easily interchanged without disruption to MNOC as shown in operations provides secure operations for low cost remote devices that are generally unsecured and encrypts all packet data transmissions to and from the MNOC.

High level security is achieved through at least one or a combination of CHE infrastructure design external security such as browser based encryption server side encryption and incorporation of a secure server environment that operates in a demilitarized zone DMZ within the CHE . The DMZ which can be represented by the encryption engine or as algorithms stored on the servers is a network area that sits between an organization s internal network and an external network and encapsulates advanced software encryption for enhanced security in sending and receiving packet data. A special dedicated encryption server can be provided as a dedicated machine on the DMZ. This architecture separates the platform from the external agents such as client machines accessing the invention via the Internet. Thus access is securely controlled from the encryption server to the various internal machines and IP address space at each MNOC.

System users can select the desired encryption through an interface between their remote device and the information server . This selection directs the traffic flow to the appropriate encryption engine either through the DMZ or server side algorithms.

The present invention employs several strategies to ensure fail over and fail safe operations in the event of failure of internal or external systems or infrastructure. Three methods are clustering replication and automated standby servers with clustering as the primary method. The CHE architecture includes both failover clustering and load balance clustering. The database servers can also use replication to obtain data transfer between all servers at all MNOCs. Replication is the process of distributing data from Publisher to Subscribers allowing the Publisher and Subscribers to make updates while connected or disconnected and then merging the updates between sites when they are connected. The present invention achieves data protection by incorporating clustering replication or automated standby server methodology. These approaches are traditionally used in the IT industry however modifications have been made to the replication process to improve the performance within the environment.

Traditional replication allows various sites to work autonomously and at a later time updates data into a single uniform result. The data are synchronized between servers continuously at a scheduled time or on demand. Because updates are made at more than one server the same data may have been updated by the Publisher or by more than one Subscriber. Therefore conflicts can occur when updates are replicated. To avoid these conflicts a resolver is invoked by the replication agent and determines which data will be accepted and propagated to other sites. Replication requires that every table must support a primary key and a Guaranteed Unique ID GUID . The Replication

Process TRP is a modification of the traditional replication process to uniquely work within the converged environment. TRP utilizes a modified GUID numbering system to prevent data collision between replicated databases. This is accomplished by introducing seed data that establishes the starting place range and increment for numbering records within each server. In this manner the converged data are replicated within and across MNOCs as shown in .

A Decision Support System DSS is incorporated that offers a powerful expert system and knowledge management tool that captures analyzes and disseminates business intelligence for faster and better decision making as applied to user specific problems. The DSS provides two primary modes for aided or automated of decision support 1 Knowledge Manager Mode KMM and 2 Behavioral Prediction Mode BPM . DSS provides a real time mechanism for automating repetitive tasks providing definitive answers to specific questions and offering predictive modeling behavior for questions with unknown answers. DSS is configured by end users to resolve user specific applications.

Queries presented by either internal or external agents are assessed by either a KMM or BPM approach. Acceptable assessments are processed for a solution and response. Unacceptable solutions trigger queries to obtain additional information which are then used for re evaluate the data and develop another solution . The KMM mode offers an automated rule driven knowledge based expert system where the corresponding database is either pre populated or dynamically populated with each use. The BPM mode offers intelligent algorithms for modeling behavior and predicting outcomes analogous to neural networks. BPM utilizes a modified form of advanced mathematical optimization and predictive modeling techniques. One such mathematical model is Singular Value Decomposition SVD which processes user specific information in real time. The process is repeated until all queries are answered or a solution is achievable. Queries can be in the form of simple questions or can be more complex containing multiple parts or entire query groups each with weighing factors. The weighing factor or weight represents the impact of the result to each of the contributing parts of a query. It signifies the overall importance of a partial solution to the total solution. Queries may contain images or hyperlinks to internal and external information or agents. Also base answers can be established which serve as conditional guidelines boundary conditions sanity checks or conformance for solutions.

DSS gains its intelligence by populating a database that represents all known and predicted permeations of selected processes including all solutions failure modes damage modes effects criticality analyses and corrective actions. Data population occurs from both internal transactions and external data feeds. When BPM is invoked the applicable data are used as the foundation for establishing trends based on user selected parameters. Generally greater accuracy in the predictive methodology is achieved with more largely populated databases.

The present invention provides a convenient and effective method for two way communications between centralized server and external sensors or machine to machine M2M systems . The system provides a seamless interface via transfer of said communication paths. This results in interoperability with any remote analog or digital device and the central server. Typical applications include security systems equipment and machine monitoring automated vehicle location point of sale and field force automation.

Interoperability with various analog or digital sensors and machines include but are not limited to bio metrics temperature motion vibration light liquid sound radiation energy utilization air quality and environment. Once the remote device or sensor data is stored in the database server said data can be manipulated as if the data were obtained from any other source.

The present invention offers a unified user interface that is extended to a plurality of diverse remote devices . This significantly simplifies information and communication input and output. This unified interface is possible through a single sign on or login which is authenticated across all modules that comprise the CHE . The information servers enable portal creation and management of LoS features permitting data to be assimilated analyzed and distributed. This enables database server population from internal and external agents which can be shared across all converged modules in the CHE or across MNOCs as shown in .

Each user is unique to the systems and once login is authenticated user system properties are used to generate the user interface and LoS features available to the user based on security right permissions and authorized system licenses. Once authenticated the user is able to move freely between all licensed modules within the application.

The above detailed description teaches certain preferred embodiments and examples of the present inventive system and method for a comprehensive integration between communications systems and information management systems where such systems include real time two way communications and management controls of a plurality of remote devices from any given remote device identification of individual and event specific workflow and content object level rights management security voice data video and image solutions delivered as services and converged or unified automated message handling. While preferred embodiments and examples have been described and disclosed it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that modifications and or substitutions are possible and such modifications and substitutions are within the true scope and spirit of the present invention. It is likewise understood that the attached claims are intended to cover all such modifications and or substitutions.

