---

title: Delaminated sodium nonatitanate and a method for producing delaminated sodium nonatitanate
abstract: A hydrothermal synthesis method of making a delaminated titanate is disclosed. The delaminated titanate has a unique structure or morphology. The delaminated titanate is first formed by forming at a low temperature a layered sodium nonatitanate (SNT), which may be referred to as layered sodium titanate. The layered SNT has a unique morphology. The layered SNT is then synthesized into a delaminated titanate having a unique morphology.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09249166&OS=09249166&RS=09249166
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09249166
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140624
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority and benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 309 708 Delaminated Sodium Nonatitanate and a Method for Producing Delaminated Sodium Nonatitanate filed Dec. 2 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

The present disclosure is generally directed to delaminated sodium titanate and a method for its production and is more particularly directed to a hydrothermal synthesis method for producing delaminated sodium titanate having nano sheet morphology.

Layered titanates have numerous applications including photocatalysis coatings paint additives sorbents and ion exchangers. Solid state production methods for forming layered titanates have been disclosed for example in Japanese Patent No. 2656778. According to these production methods a layered titanate can be synthesized by calcinating a mixture containing carbonates nitrates or oxides of the desired metal with titanium dioxide.

Another method of forming a layered titanic acid is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 455 826 granted Nov. 25 2008. According to this disclosure a solid state synthesis method is used to form a layered titanate. The process discloses 86 acidification and has been found to require four to five twenty four hour acidification steps to obtain 100 acidification.

What is needed is a method for forming a delaminated titanate that is less expensive more effective and requires fewer processing steps. What is further needed is a produced delaminated titanate that has higher surface area and therefore higher reactivity that would benefit many applications including but not limited to photocatalysis and ion exchange.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure a hydrothermal synthesis method is disclosed that includes mixing sodium hydroxide and a titanium compound to form a slurry heating the slurry to form a layered sodium titanate having between about 15 and 30 vacancy in the titanium sites. Each layer of the layered sodium titanate has an aspect ratio of between 1 5 and 1 15.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a layered sodium titanate is disclosed that includes a plurality of sodium titanate layers layered upon one another. Each layer of the titanate layers has an aspect ratio of between 1 5 and 1 15.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a layered acid titanate is disclosed that includes a plurality of acid titanate layers layered upon one another. Each layer of the acid titanate layers has an aspect ratio of between 1 5 and 1 15.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a delaminated titanate is disclosed that includes a plurality of titanate planks in a solution. Each titanate plank has an aspect ratio of between 1 5 and 1 15.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure a layered delaminated titanate is disclosed that includes a plurality of delaminated alkyl ammonium titanate or delaminated alkyl phosphonium titanate layers layered upon one another. Each layer of the plurality of delaminated alkyl ammonium titanate or delaminated alkyl phosphonium titanate layers has an aspect ratio of between 1 5 and 1 15.

One advantage of the present disclosure is to provide a method for producing a delaminated sodium nonatitanate that has improved surface area for applications requiring this such as photocatalysis and ion exchange.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the disclosure.

Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to represent the same parts.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a hydrothermal synthesis method of making a delaminated titanate is disclosed. The delaminated titanate has a unique structure or morphology. The delaminated titanate is first synthesized by forming a layered sodium nonatitanate SNT which may be referred to a as layered sodium titanate having a unique morphology. The layered SNT is then converted into a layered acid titanate having a unique morphology. Finally the layered acid titanate is then converted into a delaminated alkyl ammonium or alkyl phosphonium titanate having a unique morphology. The morphology of the layered or delaminated titanates formed by the process of the present disclosure includes an unexpected aspect ratio of between about 1 5 and 1 15 in surprising contrast to layered or delaminated CsTi. which have an aspect ratio of about 1 1. The process is generally shown in the flow chart and illustrated process diagram of and respectively.

According to the first step a layered SNT is formed by a hydrothermal synthesis process according to the present invention. The hydrothermal synthesis begins by first dissolving sodium hydroxide NaOH in water to make a sodium hydroxide solution. An amount of titanium is then added to the sodium hydroxide solution while stirring vigorously. The titanium may be provided as titanium IV alkoxide or chloride. In an embodiment the alkoxide may be a methoxide ethoxide propoxide or other similar group. A white slurry is formed that includes hydrous titania suspended in water.

The hydrous titania suspension is heated to a temperature between about 100 C. and about 170 C. for a sufficient time to dissolve the hydrous titania and form crystallized layered sodium titanate layered SNT having the general formula Na.53Ti0.8O1.73 OH 0.27.0.76H2O. In another embodiment the hydrous titania is heated to a temperature between about 150 C. and about 170 C. In another embodiment the hydrous titania is heated to a temperature of about 170 C. In an embodiment the hydrous titania is heated for about 5 days. The sodium titanate is then collected by pressure filtration vacuum filtration or other separation technique.

As can be seen in the layered sodium titanate is a double layer of edge sharing TiO6 octahedra with between about 15 and about 30 of the Ti sites vacant. In another embodiment approximately 20 of the Ti sites are vacant. The sodium and water reside between the double layer of TiO6 octahedra .

The layered sodium titanate in and is shown including three layers of titanate for illustrative purposes. The layered sodium titanate produced by the disclosed method includes between about 10 and about 50 layers of titanate within a single coherent crystal or grain of sodium titanate. Each layer has an aspect ratio in both the Y X axis of between about 1 5 and about 1 15. In an embodiment each layer has a Y X aspect ratio of about 1 10. The layers may be referred to as having a plank geometry. This is in contrast to the prior art CsTi which has a Y X aspect ratio of about 1 1 which may be referred to as a sheet geometry. The Z thickness of the planks of the present disclosure are about 5 . The Z X ratio of the titanate planks of the present disclosure are about 1 200 to about 1 600 which is similar to the prior art plate geometry.

According to a second step which may be referred to as a H exchange or acid exchange step and referring again to sodium is replaced with H3O to form a layered acid titanate H3O 0.53Ti0.8O1.73 OH 0.27.xH2O. x may vary between 0.5 and 2 . The driving force of the exchange is neutralization H OH H2O. In this step proton exchange for Na is carried out with a strong acid . The strong acid may be selected from the group including but not limited to nitric acid hydrochloric acid and sulfuric acid. In an embodiment the acid may be nitric acid. In an embodiment the acid may be a 1 M HNO3 solution. In these exchange conditions neither layered phase is observed to undergo any dissolution. The H exchanged powder is then collected. In an embodiment the H exchanged powder may be collected by centrifugation and washing. In an embodiment the washing step may include first washing with water then alcohol. Completeness of exchanged may be checked by either energy dispersive spectroscopy or thermogravimetry to 90 C. followed by X ray diffraction of the heat treated powder. If Na remained sodium titanate phases would be observed in the diffraction pattern. If the Na was completely removed only TiO2 will be observed. The acid exchange of SNT was completed i.e. no sodium remaining in a single step or in other words the reaction is driven to 100 completion.

As can be seen in the layered acid titanate produced by the disclosed method is a double layer of edge sharing TiO6 octahedra with between about 15 and about 30 of the Ti sites vacant. In another embodiment approximately 20 of the Ti sites are vacant. H3O and water reside between the double layer of TiO6 octahedra .

The purpose of the second step is to make the layered titanate more reactive for exchange with large cations such as tetrabutylammonium hydroxide TBA used in the third step .

According to a third step which may be referred to as a delamination step HO is replaced with NR alkyl ammonium or PR alkyl phosphonium to form a delaminated titanate of the form delaminated alkyl ammonium titanate NR TiO OH .xHO x may vary between 0.5 and 2 or delaminated alkyl phosphonium titanate PH TiO OH .xHO x may vary between 0.5 and 2 which both forms may be referred to as delaminated SNT . The purpose of this step is to delaminate the titanate layers so the NR needs to be large. The NR drives the titanate layers apart so they can form a stable aqueous colloid of individual titanate layers not associated with each other. Their exact state as a colloid is not entirely known but likely the NR are loosely associated with the titanate planks in the aqueous medium.

The third step is performed by adding a delaminating agent to the layered acid titanate . The delaminating agent may be a hydroxide of alkyl ammonium or alkyl phosphonium. The base may be any NR4 or PH4 where R is any large alkyl i.e. butyl pentyl hexyl etc. alkyl substituted with functional group such as a carboxylate or sulfate. The alkyl can be branched or straight chain and not all alkyls need to be identical for example trimethyl dodecyl ammonium hydroxide. In an embodiment the base may be tetrabutylammonium hydroxide TBA .

The delaminating agent and the H titanate powders are combined and mixed for a period of time sufficient to replace the H30 with the alkyl ammonium or alkyl phosphonium. In an embodiment the mixing time may be about 40 minutes. The exchange is complete to 100 after one performance of the third step.

As can be seen in the delaminated titanate planks are no longer associated with one another and present in and aqueous medium including the delaminating agent .

The delaminated titanate in aqueous medium produced in the third step may then be dried in an optional fourth step to produce a delaminated layered titanate NR4 0.53Ti0.8O1.73 OH 0.27.xH2O x between 0.2 and 2 or PH4 0.53Ti0.8O1.73 OH 0.27.xH2O x between 0.5 and 2 . The solid delaminated layered titanate may be formed and isolated by centrifugation washing and drying or other separation drying technique. In an embodiment the drying may be performed in a vacuum oven at about 70 C. to about 90 C.

The delaminated layered titanate includes a plurality of layers of delaminated titanate . The delaminated titanate layers are separated by a greater distance than the layers of sodium titanate in the layered SNT . Between the titanate layers is the delaminating agent and water . In an embodiment the delaminating agent may be alkyl ammonium or alkyl phosphonium.

The following example is intended to be illustrative of the present invention but is not intended to limit the claimed invention.

A delaminated titanate was formed according to the preceding process steps. According to the first step SNT was synthesized hydrothermally by dissolving approximately 10 grams 0.25 mol of sodium hydroxide NaOH in 48 mL of distilled water in a 125 mL Teflon liner for a Parr reactor. Titanium IV isopropoxide 9.6 g 0.033 mol was added while stirring vigorously. A white slurry formed. The reactor was closed and placed in a 170 C. oven for five days. Approximately 4 g of white powder product was collected by pressure filtration.

According to the second step proton exchange for Na was carried out with 1 M HNO3 solution utilizing a Turbula which is a high powered shaker that rotates on three axes operated for one hour. Four grams of alkali titanate were combined with 75 mL of nitric acid in a Teflon bottle. In these exchange conditions neither layered phase is observed to undergo any dissolution. The H3O exchanged powder was collected by centrifugation and washing first with water then alcohol. Completeness of exchanged was checked by either energy dispersive spectroscopy or thermogravimetry to 900 C. followed by X ray diffraction of the heat treated powder. If Na remained sodium titanate phases would be observed in the diffraction pattern. Only TiO2 was observed indicating that Na was completely removed. The acid exchange of SNT was completed in a single one hour step. This is in sharp unexpected contrast to the prior art that forms layered Cs titanate requiring 4 to 5 24 hour exchange steps.

According to a third step a 40 wt. tetrabutylammonium hydroxide TBA aqueous solution was diluted by approximately 50 with water and the H titanate powders combined with the solution for Turbula treatment for approximately 40 minutes. Both materials only required one step for complete exchange. The solid delaminated layered SNT was isolated by centrifugation washing and finally drying in a vacuum oven at 70 C. to about 90 C.

The use of colloidal suspensions of the titanate nanosheets is convenient for screening experiments utilizing different materials conditions and contaminants in photocatalysis studies one use of titanate layers but surface bound titanates have greater potential for practical use in remediating organic and microbial contamination in water. Furthermore the delaminated titanate layers have the ideal morphology for adsorption onto a flat surface. Coupling agents were explored for the purpose of affixing the titanate layers to high quality mica surfaces specifically for AFM characterization . The titanate layers are anionic under most pH conditions and cations were considered that would adhere readily to the anionic mica surface when deposited from an aqueous solution. While organic cations such as polymers can be utilized they might themselves be vulnerable to catalytic photo oxidation. Therefore inorganic polycations were used. Specifically Ga centered aluminum cluster GaO4 Al12 OH 24 H2 O 12 7 GaAl12 was used as the cationic glue. 

Dense coverages of delaminated titanate from prior art CsTi and NaTi according to the disclosure were assembled on GaAl12 coated mica surfaces. The CsTi and NaTi coatings imaged by AFM are shown in and respectively. Morphological differences are clearly apparent. Qualitatively the CsTi derived coatings are more sheet like whereas the NaTi layers can be described as more fibrous or plank like. This is in agreement with prior art CsTi disclosures that report an aspect ratio of delaminated CsTi as about 1 1. Height profiles are shown for each image. The maximum height difference is 4 nm for both the CsTi and NaTi layers. The double layer of edge sharing TiO6 octahedra of the both titanate phases is approximately 0.4 nm thick and the GaAl2 polycation is approximately 1 nm in diameter. Therefore the dense layers shown in and are fewer are than 10 titania layers thick. It is not clear from these studies if TBA resides between some co adsorbed titania layers.

While the disclosure has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example telescoping or linear devices may be hydraulically driven and or these devices may be driven with hydraulics air water or electricity or any combination thereof.

In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

