---

title: RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners
abstract: The present invention provides an RFID-based torque sensor that can be used to quickly monitor off the shelf fasteners including fasteners that are used in expensive satellites or other uses where fastener failure can be very costly. In one embodiment, an antenna, RFID ring and spring comprise a sensor tag that can be interrogated with an interrogation signal produced by an interrogator device. When sufficient torque is applied to the fastener, an RFID circuit is connected, and produces a radio frequency (RF) signal that can be read by the interrogator. In one embodiment, the RFID circuit does not transmit when the spring member is not compressed, thereby indicating insufficient tensioning of the fastener. The present invention offers the ability to remotely, quickly, and inexpensively verify that any number of fasteners are torqued properly upon initial installation. Where applicable, the present invention allows low cost monitoring over the life of the fastener.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483674&OS=09483674&RS=09483674
owner: United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09483674
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140307
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Section 305 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 now codified in 51 U.S.C. 20135.

The present invention relates generally to fastener tension sensing systems and more specifically to a RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners.

Fasteners such as bolts nuts studs washers rivets and the like are used in innumerable structures and machines. The need for improved fastener tension sensing systems is driven by costly documented failures in a wide range of application and for many different causes. Fastener failure analysis has shown that the causes include but are not limited to improper tightening fatigue tensile fracture galling insufficient preload thread stripping creep stress relaxation and self loosening.

In many disasters related to fastener failures better inspection could have been used to identify problems before failure. Such disasters include bridges tunnels and train rails where fastener failures are known to have caused disastrous results. Automotive failures occur due to common problems such as lug bolt failures in automotive racing. Aircraft are some of the most intensely inspected products in existence but entire fleets have been grounded due to loose bolts in certain subassemblies. Theme park accidents have been caused by fastener failures.

Accordingly those of skill in the art acknowledge a long felt need exists for a relatively inexpensive fastener system to initially check recently installed fasteners and to monitor over time the tension of standard off the shelf or unmodified fasteners with minimal material costs and reduced labor costs.

However the prior art does not teach such a system. Verifying that multiple fasteners are properly torqued compressed or otherwise secured to the desired tension to apply the required force is typically a labor intensive and or expensive proposition.

Given the disasters that have occurred due to fastener failures prior art attempts have been made to provide tension sensors that provide a wireless indication of the tension status of the fasteners. However prior art fastener torque sensors tend to be expensive complicated and or require modification of the fasteners. For example US patent application 2013 0068011 also discussed below teaches a rather complex housing mounted on each bolt with external wiring required to each pressure transducer requires an external power source for each fastener wiring connections between transponder and torque sensor a transponder to communicate to communicate with an external base station a controller circuit to compare the current tension with an initial tension and also an RFID tag to uniquely identify each bolt. Such a system is likely to be cost prohibitive for most applications. Another example of prior art is US patent application 2013 0047408 also discussed below which teaches an embedded ultrasonic transducer in the head of the bolt making the modified bolts expensive. Such a system is associated with very close read ranges likely involving contact with the fastener. Integration of an RFID circuit with a bolt typically implies that the embedded RFID circuit will have a very small antenna and hence will be very range limited.

An RFID system comprises an interrogator also called a reader and a wireless tag wherein the interrogator transmits a signal to the tag and the tag returns the desired information by radio wave. RFID technology enables the reading of multiple wireless tags perhaps thousands of wireless tags at the same time or in a desired sequence. RFID devices may or may not utilize batteries. Strictly passive RFID tags require no active electronic circuits such as power absorbing electronic switches. On the other hand pseudo passive RFID tags rectify the electromagnetic wave transmitted by the interrogator and then use this power for operating integrated circuits. The primary advantages of the strictly passive and pseudo passive tags are the independence from a battery and typically lower weight and size. These RFID tags are also less costly often to the extent to which they are deemed disposable. However the prior art does not provide a way to utilize RFID technology for a low priced torque sensor that utilizes standard fasteners.

The following prior art patents and applications disclose various types of torque sensing systems but do not address the problems discussed hereinbefore 

U.S. Pat. No. 8 156 820 issued Apr. 17 2012 to Dral et al. discloses a device and method for tightening a bolt or a nut threaded on its end which end extends through at least a first body and screws into a hole in a second body or extends through the second body into another nut. The device has gripping means co acting with the bolt head or the nuts. Means process a signal generated by sensor means subject to the axial force exerted on the surface of the first body by the bolt head or the first nut or on the surface of the second body by the second nut and control the device such that the bolt head or a nut is tightened subject to the axial force exerted on the surface of one of the bodies which sensor means are in an annular body around the threaded hole between the bolt head or first nut and the first body or between the second nut and second body.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 698 949 issued Apr. 20 2010 to Akdeniz et al. discloses apparatus systems and methods for inspecting and monitoring bolted joints of metallic and composite structures for defects such as delamination and fatigue cracking are provided that incorporate ultrasonic transducers with load bearing washers. These active washers may be used for inspecting and monitoring a structure beneath such load bearing fasteners as bolts and nuts. Active washers may be used for continuous periodic and controlled inspections of bolted joints. Ultrasonic transducers may be permanently applied to a surface of a washer or recessed in a cavity on a surface of the washer. Inspection signals may be transmitted from ultrasonic transducers into a structure and reflected in pulse echo application or received by another active washer on the opposing side of the structure in a through transmission application.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 644 627 issued Jan. 12 2010 to Kibblewhite et al. discloses thread forming fasteners for ultrasonic load measurement and control. An ultrasonic load measurement transducer is mated with a thread forming fastener to provide a load indicating thread forming fastener that can be used for the precise and reliable assembly of critical bolted joints such as those in the automobile and aerospace industries among others. Steps can then be taken to accurately measure and control the load in the thread forming fastener during tightening and to inspect the load in the thread forming fastener after assembly. A similar result can be achieved for a thread locking fastener by mating an ultrasonic transducer with the thread locking fastener assembly.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 520 175 issued Apr. 21 2010 to Matsukawa et al. discloses a strain sensor whereby a fixing member is composed of an upper washer and a lower washer and a sensor substrate is sandwiched and held by the upper and lower washers. A strain detecting element is disposed on the sensor substrate. A strain sensor as configured above is fixed onto a measurement target via the fixing member. Accordingly the strain sensor does not generate an output signal when no external force is applied demonstrating stable characteristics.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 293 466 issued Nov. 13 2007 to Ohta et al. discloses a bolt with a function of measuring strain comprising a Wheatstone bridge circuit comprising a strain sensor and a dummy resistor a translate circuit that amplifies a signal from the Wheatstone bridge circuit to convert the same into a digital signal a transmitting circuit that transmits the digital signal outside the bolt and a power circuit by which electromagnetic wave energy received from outside the bolt is supplied as a power source for at least any one of the circuits.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 658 924 issued Dec. 9 2003 too Shirato et al. discloses a method for measuring dynamic characteristics of a wheel of a vehicle. A washer type strain sensor which generates an output representing a load acting thereon is arranged between the vehicle body and the wheel. A dynamic load acting on the wheel is measured on the basis of the outputs of the strain sensor when the vehicle is traveling. A lateral force a lateral force coefficient a slip angle and steering characteristics of the wheel are obtained on the basis of the measured dynamic load and thereby the cornering characteristics of the wheel are obtained.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 575 039 issued Jun. 10 2003 to Murai et al. discloses a combustion pressure sensor assembly. A glow plug with combustion pressure sensor having a plug body having a screw portion on the outer peripheral surface is inserted into a screw hole of an engine head and screw connected to it a combustion pressure sensor fixed to the plug body to which the plug body is inserted and a lead wire for leading out the sensor signal connected to the sensor wherein the outside diameter of a hexagonal portion used for screw connection between the plug body and the screw hole out of the plug body is smaller than the inside diameter of a through hole of the combustion pressure sensor so that the plug body can be inserted into the combustion pressure sensor from the hexagonal portion end.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 798 issued Oct. 26 1999 Gleman et al. discloses an ultrasonic bolt gage which uses a cross correlation algorithm to determine a tension applied to a fastener such as a bolt. The cross correlation analysis is preferably performed using a processor operating on a series of captured ultrasonic echo waveforms. The ultrasonic bolt gage is further described as using the captured ultrasonic echo waveforms to perform additional modes of analysis such as feature recognition. Multiple tension data outputs therefore can be obtained from a single data acquisition for increased measurement reliability. In addition one embodiment of the gage has been described as multi channel having a multiplexer for performing a tension analysis on one of a plurality of bolts.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 675 087 issued Oct. 17 1997 to MacLaughln et al. discloses a device for measuring a load on a part and for monitoring the integrity of the part such as a bolt comprises a socket having walls defining an interior space wherein the socket engages the bolt for transmitting a load to the bolt. An electromagnetic acoustic transducer comprising a magnet and a coil is located in the interior space of the socket near the bolt. The coil provides a current while the magnet provides a magnetic field such that the magnet and the coil generate an ultrasonic signal within the bolt. A detector is used to detect and measure a change in the ultrasonic signal at the bolt for measuring the load on the bolt and for detecting any flaws in the bolt.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 499 540 issued Mar. 19 1996 to Whaley et al. discloses a device for measuring a load on a part such as a bolt comprises a socket having walls defining an interior space wherein the socket engages the bolt for transmitting a load to the bolt. An electromagnetic acoustic transducer comprising a magnet and a coil is located in the interior space of the socket near the bolt. The coil provides a current while the magnet provides a magnetic field such that the magnet and the coil generate an ultrasonic signal within the bolt. A detector is used to detect and measure a change in the ultrasonic signal at the bolt.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 437 525 issued Aug. 1 1995 to Bras discloses a force sensor for measuring tightening tension applied to an assembly component having first and second faces and an axis of symmetry includes a ceramic support layer having a mounting side to be secured to the first face and an exposed side carrying a piezoresistive layer having a resistance that varies in response to its deformation. The force sensor may comprise a central metallic layer and an annular metallic layer joined by the piezoresistive layer or at least two separate sensors having angularly disposed longitudinal axes. A machine for tightening the assembly component includes a motor driven socket for torqueing the component in accordance with a sensed tightening tension.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 392 654 issued Feb. 28 1996 to Boyle discloses a rock bolt load sensor assembly for use to determine the load on a nut screwed onto a bolt embedded in a rock face the assembly comprising a plurality of spring washers arranged to be mounted on the bolt between the nut and a roof plate and a sensor comprising an induction coil adapted to be in use placed around the washers the sensor including an indicator coupled to the induction coil whereby in use the spring washers define an air space which varies in dependence on the load on the bolt and the induction coil provides an electrical indication of variation of the air space and the indicator provides an indication of variation of the load on the bolt.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 343 759 issued Sep. 6 1994 to Hesthamar et al. discloses a sensor system for measuring e.g. the preloads in screws bolts or similar. It comprises sensor means comprising a magnetoelastic material sensitive to the preloads to which the object is exposed and a sensing device comprising a contact portion and gripping portion. The contact portion is so arranged that it at least partly surrounds the sensor means and the magnetoelastic material is excited with an excitation frequency of at least 300 kHz.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 323 643 issued Jun. 28 1994 to Kojima et al. discloses a device for detecting a change in internal pressure of a cylinder includes a cylinder head an ignition plug threadingly fitted into a plug insertion hole of the cylinder head. An annular piezoelectric sensor is secured in the plug insertion hole by screwing the plug into the insertion hole. The sensor has such an outer periphery that when the ignition plug is screwed into the plug hole a part of the outer periphery of the sensor placed is brought into engagement with an inside periphery of the plug hole and is thereby prevented from being further rotated in the screwing direction. By using a gasket having the same relative shape to the periphery of the plug insertion hole as that of the above sensor rotation of the sensor can be prevented even when the sensor does not have such a relative shape.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 760 740 issued Aug. 2 1988 to Mesiterling discloses a vacuum coupled ultrasonic transducer is presented for coupling a transducer to a bolt for ultrasonic measurement of bolt elongation. A central passageway extends through the transducer body the piezoelectric crystal and a seal element. A vacuum line extends through the central passageway.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 553 124 issued Nov. 12 1985 to Malicki discloses a strain gauge transducer which is utilized with a bolt to sense loading and has a construction which permits accurate axial alignment testing before installation removal for inspection and any necessary repair. The transducer includes a body having a web extending between a threaded inner end and an enlarged outer head. An annular seat on the head engages a bolt hole surface as the threaded inner end is received by a threaded portion of the bolt hole. At least two strain gauges are utilized with each mounted on one of the parallel web surfaces and wires connected to the strain gauges extend through a wire passage in the enlarged head to permit a signal to be sensed by the strain gauges and fed to suitable instrumentation. In the preferred construction the web has a thickness in the range of about 0.020 to 0.060 of an inch and most preferably about 0.040 of an inch in order to minimize twisting of the web upon installation while still providing accurate readings that are not substantially affected by bending loading. Round inner and outer portions provide uniform loading of the web without any stress concentrations.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 295 377 issued Oct. 20 1981 to Couchman discloses a threaded fastener incorporating a removable ultrasonic transducer for obtaining preload measurements as well as other measurements for quality control inspection or for monitoring purposes. The transducer may be removed for repair or replacement purposes.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 062 227 issued Dec. 13 1977 to Heyman discloses a CW ultrasonic device for measuring frequency shifts of the peak of a mechanical resonance in a body. One application of the device is measuring the strain in a bolt. It also has other applications such as measuring the thickness of a body measuring the depth of a flaw in a body measuring the elongation of body and measuring changes in velocity of sound in a body. The body is connected by means of a CW transducer to electrical circuit means including a narrow band RF amplifier to form a closed loop feedback marginal oscillator that frequency locks the device to the peak of a mechanical resonance in the body. Thereafter when the frequency of this peak changes because of a physical change in the body the frequency of the oscillator changes. The device includes an automatic frequency resonant peak tracker that produces a voltage that is related to a change in frequency of the oscillator. This voltage is applied to the RF amplifier to change the center of its frequency band to include the frequency of the peak and is a measure of the frequency shift. The device also includes a special transducer which requires contact to only one side of the body and provides high electrical isolation between its parts.

Japanese Patent No. 11 118637 issued Oct. 15 2007 to Yoshihiri discloses a sensor bolt. To the bottom part of a through hole formed from the side of the head part of a sensor bolt a sensor such as a distortion gage is mold adhered. In addition the output of an amplifier housed in the recessed part of the head part is connected to an indicator such as an LED. The sensor bolt is inserted into the hole of a body to which a bolt is tightened and is tightened with a nut and the sensor detects a generated tightening axial force and outputs an electric signal. The amplifier amplifies and compares it with an optimum set tightening value set in advance. In other words as the electric signal is smaller than the optimum set value at the beginning of tightening the indicator is lighted and at the time when the electric signal reaches the optimum set value with the gradual tightening the indicator is turned off. In the case that the tightening is excessive above the optimum set value the indicator is lighted.

Japanese Patent Application No. JP2005114441 published Oct. 6 2003 to Hiroyuki et al. discloses an electric circuit driven by the power supplied by any one of electromagnetic coupling electromagnetic induction microwave power dispatching and optical coupling. A Wheatstone bridge constituted in the impurity dispersion layer of a silicon substrate is embedded in the bolt. The power supply system without wiring makes it simple and long life. A dummy resistor for constituting the Wheatstone bridge is embedded in the bolt thereby the high precision measurement can be performed even in the case that the temperature is changed.

Japanese Patent Application No. JP2002004798 published Jun. 22 2000 to Akira et al. discloses a fastening and strain sensing system using a fastening body. A strain sensing system comprises a bolt a nut and a spacer installed between the nut and a body to be fastened and a transponder which uses a fastening body capable of sensing a strain which occurs in the axial direction of the bolt.

United States Patent Application No. 20130068031 filed Mar. 21 2013 to Mekid et al. discloses a bolt tension monitoring system that provides remote monitoring of the tension of a bolt thus allowing for remote monitoring of general structural health and integrity of the fastener. The bolt tension monitoring system includes a housing adapted for being retained on a head of a bolt to be monitored. The system further includes a force transducer positioned between the head of the bolt and a surface in which the bolt is fastened and measures tension between the head of the bolt and the workpiece surface. A controller circuit within the housing calculates the difference between currently measured tension between the head of the bolt and the workpiece surface and an initially measured tension. A wireless transponder mounted in the housing transmits an alert signal if the calculated difference exceeds a pre defined threshold value.

United States Patent Application No. 20100054891 filed Mar. 4 2010 to Nishida et al. discloses a detecting system of a fastening apparatus that detects an axial force of the fastening apparatus including a bolt or a nut. The detecting system includes an axial force detector including a strain gauge and an IC tag the strain gauge being provided at a predetermined location to detect an axial force value of the fastening apparatus and the IC tag being connected to the strain gauge and wirelessly transmitting the detected axial force value and unique identification information. Power is supplied to the axial force detector. A reader reads data transmitted from the axial force detector.

United States Patent Application No. 20100261578 filed Oct. 14 2010 to Fujii et al. discloses a load sensor assembly for measuring an amount of torque transmitted through a torque establishing element that includes a core mounted on a transmission housing and a load sensor mounted on the core. The load sensor is positioned against a portion of the torque establishing element whereby a portion of the amount of torque transmitted through the torque establishing element travels through the load sensor and is measured. A cable is connected to the load sensor for transmitting a signal representative of the amount of torque to a transmission controller.

United States Patent Application No. 20080278319 filed Nov. 13 2008 to Meiksin et al. discloses a detection and alarm system comprising a piezoelectric film sensor and associated circuitry. The sensor detects acoustic emission signals from metallic objects under stress upon which it is affixed. The associated circuitry receives electronic signals from the sensor creates and evaluates a sensor output value including rate ratio and frequency content of such signals within preset time limits. This data allows the detection of impending failure an alarm condition of the metallic object by identifying significant changes in the rate of emission of such sensor signals. An alarm condition may then trigger an alarm signal to warm of such impending failure.

As seen from above the prior art does not teach how to provide a low cost torque monitoring system using strictly or pseudo passive wireless tags that operates with standard off the shelf or unmodified fasteners. Moreover even the above discussed art that utilize RFIDs require relatively expensive modified bolts that have a very limited range of transmission so that the fastener torque sensing systems are not only expensive but have significantly limited functionality. Accordingly those of skill in the art will appreciate the present invention that addresses the above and other problems.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners that operates with standard off the shelf fasteners.

An additional object of the present invention is to provide a RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners that provides for remote reading which eliminates manual checking of each fastener.

Yet another possible object of the invention is to provide RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners that provides highly reliable data and cost effective means to observe operational status of equipment and other systems.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a RFID torque sensing tag system for fasteners that improves safety by reducing quality control labor and providing a cost effective means to detect loose fasteners to prevent injury to people and damage to critical equipment.

In accordance with the disclosure the present invention provides a wireless tag system configured to detect tension of at least one fastener in response to an interrogation signal from a wireless interrogator in one possible embodiment comprising at least one wireless tag operable to transmit a tension indication signal indicating an amount of tension applied to the fastener in response to the interrogation signal from the wireless interrogator and a resilient member being responsive to the amount of tension applied to the fastener for movement between at least a first configuration and a second configuration. In the first configuration the resilient member is configured to indicate a first tension applied to the fastener. In a second configuration the resilient member is configured to indicate a second tension applied to the fastener. The wireless tag is responsive to the resilient member for transmitting the tension indication signal in at least one of the first configuration or the second configuration.

In another embodiment the wireless tag may be positioned to comprise an offset between the wireless tag and the resilient member in the first configuration. In the second configuration the resilient member may be compressed into an engagement position with the wireless tag.

In yet another embodiment the wireless tag may be configured to transmit the tension indication signal in response to the interrogation signal from the wireless interrogator only when the resilient member is in one of the first configuration or the second configuration.

In yet another embodiment the wireless tag may further comprise a first circuit operable to produce the tension indication signal and a supplemental circuit operable to produce a second wireless signal comprising identification information in response to the wireless interrogation signal when the wireless tag does not transmit the tension indication signal.

In one possible embodiment the wireless tag may further comprise a first circuit operable to produce the tension indication signal the wireless tag further comprising a supplemental circuit operable to produce a second wireless signal with identification information in response to the wireless interrogation signal when the fastener is in the first configuration and or the second configuration.

In one embodiment the resilient member may comprise part of an antenna. The antenna is configured to transmit the tension indication signal. The wireless tag may further be configured to exclusively utilize power of the wireless interrogation signal to provide power for the wireless tag to wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal.

In another embodiment when the resilient member is compressed to the second configuration then the tension member may be tensioned to a predetermined minimum tension.

Another embodiment may further comprise visual indicia associated with a plurality of fasteners and programming for the interrogator and or a computer to indicate which of the plurality of fasteners requires additional tensioning.

In another embodiment of the present invention the wireless tag is responsive to an amount of tension applied to the fastener for placing the wireless tag into a plurality of states comprising at least a first state or a second state. In the first state the wireless tag does not wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal in response to the interrogation signal from the wireless interrogator. In the second state the wireless tag is configured to wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal in response to the interrogation signal from the wireless interrogator.

In one embodiment the wireless tag may be configured to exclusively utilize power of the wireless interrogation signal to provide power for the wireless tag to wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal. The wireless tag may further be configured to be responsive to the fastener being placed under a minimum predetermined tension whereby the wireless tag is then placed into the second state.

In another embodiment the wireless tag may comprise electrical contacts which engage the resilient member when the resilient member is in the second configuration. The wireless tag may further comprise an opening for receiving the fastener.

Another embodiment may comprise a plurality of wireless tags for monitoring tension of a plurality of fasteners. The tension indication signal produced by each of the plurality of wireless tags further comprises information to identify each of the plurality of fasteners.

The present disclosure also provides for a wireless tag method to monitor tension of a fastener in response to a wireless interrogation signal from a wireless interrogator. The method comprises steps that may comprise steps such as providing a tension member for at least one wireless tag providing that the tension member is responsive to a tension applied to fastener configuring the wireless tag to respond to the wireless interrogation signal with a wireless tension indication signal indicative of tension applied to the fastener at least when tension applied to the fastener reaches a predetermined tension and utilizing only power of the interrogation signal to power the wireless tag.

Other steps may include positioning the wireless interrogator at a position greater than three feet from the fastener and producing the wireless interrogation signal.

In one embodiment the method may further comprise configuring the wireless tag to respond to the wireless interrogation signal with a wireless tension indication signal indicative of tension applied to the fastener only when tension applied to the fastener reaches a predetermined tension.

Further steps may include providing that the tension member comprises a resilient member positioning the resilient member adjacent to the fastener to compress the resilient member in response to tension applied to the fastener and utilizing the resilient member as part of an antenna for the wireless tag.

The disclosure may further provide for a wireless tag system configured to detect tension of at least one fastener in response to an interrogation signal from a wireless interrogator comprising at least one wireless tag operable to transmit a tension indication signal indicating tension applied to the fastener in response to the interrogation signal from the wireless interrogator and a resilient member positioned for compression in response to tension applied to fastener. In this embodiment the resilient member comprises at least part of an antenna.

In another embodiment a wireless tag system is configured to detect tension of a fastener. The system comprises a wireless tag an interrogator operable to send a wireless interrogation signal to the wireless tag and to receive a wireless tension indication signal from the wireless tag in response to the wireless interrogation signal. The tension indication signal comprises information about an amount of tension applied to the fastener. An interface for the wireless tag is responsive to the amount of tension applied to the fastener for placing the wireless tag into either an off state or an on state whereby in the off state the wireless tag does not wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal and in the on state the wireless tag is configured to wirelessly transmit the tension indication signal.

In one possible embodiment the resilient member completes a circuit when the resilient member is in the sufficiently compressed configuration. In another embodiment the resilient member may comprise a spring washer.

The system may further comprise a plurality of the wireless tags the fastener comprising a plurality of fasteners the plurality of wireless tags are associated with respective of the plurality of fasteners the tension indication signal produced by each of the plurality of wireless tags further comprising information to identify each of the plurality of fasteners.

Detailed descriptions of the preferred embodiment are provided herein. It is to be understood however that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system structure or manner. It will be understood that the components can sometimes be shown herein in substantially conceptual form for ease of understanding. The illustrations are not intended to represent manufacturing level drawings with manufacturing level dimension precision sizes or details.

Referring now to the drawings and more specifically to there is shown for illustrational purposes an elevational cross sectional diagrammatic view of one possible embodiment of RFID torque sensing tag system . RFID tag sometimes referred to as a sensor by those of skill in the art comprises a circuit board with ground metallization layer or ground plane insulating substrate and surface metallization layers . Surface metallization areas are used in conjunction with and connected i.e. shorted to the ground metallization layer to form corresponding patch antenna surfaces for sending and receiving signals from RFID tag .

A top view of RFID tag as shown in conceptually shows antenna which is formed from the assembly of surface metallization areas both shorted to the ground plane at the respective distal ends and the intervening insulating substrate layer and RFID ring . RFID integrated circuit is in series with RFID ring . RFID integrated circuit may be a standard EPC Global Class 1 Gen 2 design that is commercially available and routinely used for asset tracking and supply chain logistics by large organizations such as the Department of Defense and Wal Mart. However other types of RFID integrated circuits e.g. standing wave acoustic SAW devices could conceivably also be utilized. Circuit boards preformed for particular applications could be utilized. The inventors believe that due to the relatively low cost of detection of fastener errors utilizing the present invention that sensitive systems should require use of the present invention and that suitable regulations should be adopted to reduce the likelihood of disasters.

Referring again to bolt is shown extending through opening of circuit board that is aligned with tapped hole within base . Base represents a structure that requires the use of fasteners and could represent any suitable structure not limited to but including those structures discussed in the BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION section of this application.

In the view of spring washer is not compressed see also and therefore does not make contact with surface metallization area or also referred to as antenna circuit layer or RFID ring circuit . The electrical result of the uncompressed configuration of is effectively the same as the result of the status of RFID tag in where RFID circuit is disabled due to open space between electrical contacts and . In other words the ends of spring washer are offset from circuit board prior to compression or if the tension subsequently loses tension to thereby provide a first level of tension information e.g. absence of sufficient fastener tension. Accordingly without a completed or series electrical connection in the example of RFID ring circuit RFID tag does not respond to interrogation signal from interrogator or reader . Once spring washer is compressed See as indicated by arrows the offset is eliminated and spring washer provides a second level of tension information e.g. sufficient fastener tension.

Interrogator or reader may comprise a standard interrogator or reader used with RFID tags. Interrogator or reader may comprise software See in accord with the present system to locate poorly torqued fasteners. Interrogation signal can be utilized in one embodiment to power RFID circuit and therefore may be designed to transmit suitable levels of power to the RFID ring circuit . Accordingly interrogation signal of interrogator can be selected to provide adequate power to RFID circuit when the embodiment utilizes strictly or pseudo passive RFIDS to eliminate the need for a separate power supply. Integrated circuit may be configured to store energy in capacitors for use by programming and signal transmission function of integrated circuit .

As discussed herein spring washer may be referred to as resilient member or spring member herein because many types of springs spring devices resilient devices resilient switches tension responsive members and or resiliently moveable components and the like could be utilized to enable or disable or otherwise program operation of RFID ring circuit . The present disclosure includes a non exhaustive and non limiting sample of a few possibilities and is not limited to any particular structure that effectively provides information regarding tension in fastener .

Referring to once spring washer is compressed as indicated by arrows and so that spring washer makes contact with RFID circuit to electrically close gap then RFID circuit is enabled or operational and responds to interrogation signal . Accordingly RFID tag may be used to provide a signal which may be referred to herein as a tension indication signal see when fastener is sufficiently tensioned after initial tightening. In the embodiment of if fastener becomes loose or otherwise becomes insufficiently tensioned over time then RFID circuit no longer transmits tension indication signal the absence of which indicates to the user an insufficient tensioned fastener. Accordingly in one embodiment the user is notified whether the fastener is suitably tensioned or not.

In spring washer is a conical spring washer. However the invention is not limited to particular spring washers. Other types of spring washers may also be utilized as discussed hereinafter. Moreover as discussed hereinafter the invention is not limited to spring washers but could utilize spring members resilient members of many types only some of which are discussed herein.

In the non limiting example of RFID tag utilizes flat washer placed on the stem of bolt to compress spring washer as indicated by arrows and for electrically engaging contacts and and thereby electrically closing gap at the frequency of operation. Flat washer is utilized to more evenly compress spring washer where the diameter of the fastener is not sufficiently large to reliably compress spring washer .

Depending on the frequency of operation spacing and other factors contacts and may or may not be shorted together to direct current when spring washer is compressed but do at least operate as being electrically connected for the frequency of operation. Accordingly spring washer acts as an electrical switch that requires a predetermined force or tension to be compressed to close the switch and contacts and due to torque applied to fastener or bolt .

In this embodiment RFID ring is positioned with circuit board hole in surrounding relationship with tapped hole in mounting material . In this embodiment when spring washer is compressed spring washer is also electrically connected with surface metallization area at operating frequencies. In this embodiment surface metallization layer aka antenna circuit layer lies on top of insulating substrate which partially separates the metalized antenna circuit layer from ground metallization layer by insulating material . The insulating material partially separates the antenna circuit layer from the ground metallization layer because both these layers are electrically connected at a distal end.

RFID ring and the surrounding surface metallization layers and can be configured in many different ways. While RFID ring is rectangular in this application RFID ring and the corresponding interface with the antenna can be rounded or otherwise shaped. The antenna can surround RFID ring rather than simply being above and below the circuit as shown in . In this embodiment gap is positioned adjacent surface metallization layer which has the significant advantage that spring washer actually becomes part of the antenna when compressed thereby improving antenna operation. However if desired gap could be offset to the side of RFID ring to accommodate fastener spacing placing the switch function of spring washer to another position in RFID ring . Accordingly other configurations for RFID ring with RFID integrated circuit and surface metallization layers can be utilized with other wiring layouts connections and so forth to operate in accord with the operating principles discussed herein.

In a presently preferred embodiment the sufficient or insufficient compression or tensioning of the bolt as determined by the spring tension of spring washer being compressed close gap is used to turn the RFID circuit on and off respectively as discussed herein. Collectively antenna discussed above RFID ring and spring washer comprise a RFID or sensor tag that can be interrogated by remote reader or interrogator to determine whether bolt has been initially adequately torqued and or whether bolt has loosened after having been adequately torqued.

Prior to tightening or torqueing to the proper tension or pressure spring washer bends away from contacts and thereby placing RFID tag in a disabled or off state as shown in and . In the off state spring washer is not compressed and hence does not provide a sufficiently conductive path to close gap of RFID ring such as by physically electrically connecting contacts and together.

In bolt has been compressed so that spring washer is flattened to the point that gap of RFID ring is electrically closed. RFID ring is now in an on or activated state. In the activated state RFID ring is able to couple to adjacent surface metallization layers so that RFID integrated circuit can be energized by the signal from the remote reader. In one embodiment spring washer is used with only bolt to engage spring washer . However flat washer and or other washers lock washers and the like may be used when the bolt bead diameter is not sufficiently large to compress spring washer as depicted in .

In a preferred embodiment RFID torque sensing tag is a passive device meaning that even when RFID ring is complete a wireless RF transmission occurs only when RFID ring is activated by an external reader or interrogator . In the presently preferred embodiment all power for operation of RFID tag is derived from reader interrogator or interrogation signal . However if desired alternative embodiments may comprise active RFID chips with a power source to power chip . The design can be tailored to the environment in which the fastener will be used for example the distance from which the signal must be read impacts antenna design. The environment can impact characteristics of spring washer which governs the amount of torque needed for operation.

Two characteristics of spring washer that can be of importance include the elasticity and resiliency of spring washer which affect the required tension and the ability for repetitive use of RFID tag . In one embodiment the spring washer can be selected to provide that a desired tension must be applied before the fastener has sufficient tension to compress the spring washer. Accordingly the present invention can be used to select a desired tension for each fastener. Different spring washers could be utilized with different fasteners if desired to utilize different tension for different fasteners. However at a minimum in one presently preferred embodiment the spring washer can be selected to be resilient so that loosening of the fastener results in the spring washer bending upwardly to break the electrical contact at gap thereby providing an indication that the fastener is no longer sufficiently tightened. In other words for applications where continuous monitoring is desired and any repetitive tightening and loosening of fastener is desired to monitored then spring washer should at least be resilient.

RFID readers such as interrogator are capable of reading tags at a very high rate. Line of sight is not a necessary requirement. Therefore a reader in an appropriate environment for example in a development facility could have sufficient visibility to read all or most tags associated with structure fasteners in a matter of seconds. Tags not read could warrant inspection as this could be due to an insufficiently secured bolt faulty hardware or signal blockage. If any RFID tag does not produce a signal then interrogator may be programmed to indicate which RFID tag due to the absence of any received signal and which fastener is not sufficiently tightened. Interrogator may be programmed to provide an indication on the display of the interrogator which fastener s are not tight and identification indicia may be provided on each RFID tag to allow easier visual identification of the RFID tag and associated fastener as identified by interrogator .

In this embodiment RFID ring is operational only when the associated fastener is sufficiently tensioned as discussed herein. Accordingly reference RFID ring incorporates a second RFID integrated circuit that responds to interrogator signal with identification signal which provides only identification information without information about the status of the tension on each fastener . A successful read of reference RFID ring identification code would then determine that RFID interrogation signal has sufficient strength to reach the RFID tag A and to power RFID tag A for RFID tag A to respond with identification signal . In this way issues of whether the circuit is operational to respond to the reader are essentially eliminated. Software employed with interrogator could be utilized to indicate that the RFID tag A is operational whenever the interrogation signal is transmitted and to indicate whether or not the associated fastener s has been tightened sufficiently or not. In addition with an interrogator exceptionally close to the RFID tag or A and or transmitting with a suitably high transmit power it is possible that RFID integrated circuit responds even when the gap has not been sufficiently closed. In this case the power reported by IC should show significantly stronger than that reported by IC to indicate that the gap has not been suitably closed. In other words the difference in power reported by the IC relative to the reference IC may be a more reliable method of determining proper torque to fasten or sustained tension in the bolt.

As discussed herein there are several possible embodiment variations of reference RFID ring and or RFID ring . For example in one embodiment RFID ring circuit and or RFID ring could utilize an integrated circuit or in conjunction with a tension responsive switch connection such as a Wheatstone bridge tension sensor whereby the integrated circuit is programmed to transmit a number of bits e.g. 10 bits or 2levels representative of tension information as to whether the fastener is properly tensioned and what the absolute or relative tension is.

In the embodiment of RFID tag A ring will transmit regardless of whether RFID ring is activated or not. In the non activated mode of RFID ring RFID tag A will include identification information produced by RFID ring that may be used to visually identify fasteners that are not sufficiently tensioned assuming software in accord with the present invention is included with reader or interrogator as discussed with respect to .

In yet another embodiment a single RFID ring could be utilized that always transmits at least an identification signal in response to interrogator signal . A switch such as spring washer provides information to the integrated circuit or whether a particular fastener is tightened not tightened that in the simplest form could be represented in with a single bit of data in tension indication signal See .

In the embodiment of as with RFID tag once the bolt is inserted into hole in the circuit board and tensioned so that the spring washer provides an electrical connection across gap then RFID ring is turned on a circuit is established and a tension indication signal is then transmitted by RFID ring in response to interrogation signal as discussed hereinbefore to indicate the fastener is properly torqued or tensioned. Once activated RFID ring is able to couple to adjacent antennas so that RFID integrated circuit can be energized by the signal from the remote reader. In which case absence of a response from reference circuit would indicate a fastener not properly secured. Although shown as a smaller ring reference ring alternatively could reside beneath the sensing ring with an intervening insulating layer. Further reference ring could be of a comparable or larger size relative to ring .

If desired the signal from reference RFID ring can be used to help visually identify a faulty fastener by association of the return signal information with visual indicia numbers colors or the like on RFID tag A. For example if RFID ring is open due to gap then integrated circuit will be off . The receipt of the signal from reference ring may be coupled with information provided by associated software that indicates which fastener is faulty and may provide the user with information to visually identify the faulty fastener.

In yet another embodiment RFID ring could be made to transmit only when the fastener is not tightened. Thus prior to tightening the various RFID circuits would respond to provide that the circuits are working but afterward would no longer respond to the interrogator signal. In this embodiment a reference circuit or programming for integrated circuit IC could also be used as discussed above to provide a response signal regardless of whether the fastener is sufficiently tensioned or not.

In yet another embodiment the circuit board could be made to correspond to a bolt pattern with multiple bolts going through the circuit board see . In this embodiment the manufacturer of the flange bolt pattern or the like would design the size of the circuit board for the specific application as part of the manufacturing process preferably due to regulations requiring tension monitoring of fasteners in critical applications. This could be done to further simplify the monitoring process make construction of the RFID circuits easier and maximize circuit operation parameters such as transmission distance e.g. increase to thirty feet or so . In a variation of this embodiment either individual fasteners or perhaps groups of bolts or perhaps all bolts would need to be properly tensioned in order for the RFID ring or other series connection to be completed so that at least one RFID integrated circuit would be available to make the transmission signal. Accordingly the present invention can be modified in many ways in accord with the working principles described herein. shows a manufactured circuit board designed to fit to a bolt pattern monitor individual bolts and utilize a common larger antenna for transmission receipt of signals.

Many types of commercially available spring washers are suitable for this application. shows a conical spring washer . shows three wave spring washer A and shows finger spring washer B. Washers A B and numerous other spring washers are offered off the shelf with a variety of options that include variations in size force required to compress and the number of segments that rise above the resting surface. For example wave washers are available with various numbers of waves and finger spring washers can be found with different numbers of fingers. It will also be appreciated that other springs spring members of various types or the like may be utilized to activate RFID tag which may or may not comprise washers.

While a presently preferred embodiment utilizes a spring washer arrangement to effectively provide an on off switch a switch spring loaded switch or the like could be placed across gap that would be closed when the fastener is sufficiently tensioned. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the use of spring washers but could use any suitable type of switch mechanism latch resilient member or the like that is responsive to the tension applied to the fastener. In one embodiment the switch or associated hardwire includes a resilient member that will repeatedly open the gap if the fastener becomes too loose is tightened and then again becomes too loose over time. However even in those circumstances of sealed units where it is unlikely that the fastener tension will be checked again subsequent to torqueing of internal fasteners at a minimum the switch washer assembly or the like could indicate that the final torque applied is adequate.

Furthermore many RFID integrated circuits permit storage of user data. Hence depending on the type of IC data could be stored directly at the site of the bolt for example the last time the bolt tag was read who last modified the structure configuration and or a single bit that indicates whether the fastener is sufficiently tensioned. In yet another embodiment depending on available power for RFID tag a bridge or other tension measuring device might be momentarily energized in response to each interrogator signal for use of user data across gap or at another desired connection to processor to provide a better estimate of the level of tension that has been applied as might be useful to track changes in tension over time.

In one example of operation of RFID tag a commercial RFID reader is used to interrogate the sensor tag. If desired an anechoic chamber can be used for testing purposes to eliminate background noise for more consistent evaluations of the operation of RFID .

In a first example shown in RFID tag is placed in an anechoic chamber at a distance of three feet from the reader antenna. shows one possible display of many possible displays from graphical user interface of the commercial RFID reader prior to the compression of spring washer . However in a preferred embodiment refinements in the display software may be utilized to provide formation such as which fastener s are torqued to the desired tension pressure or the like and which fasteners are not tensioned to the desired tension

In the first example the number of reads is indicated as 0 next to the reference numeral thus properly indicating that RFID ring is in the off or non activated state and is not transmitting a signal in response to interrogation signal from interrogator . Only a single RFID ring circuit is tested in the example. Accordingly zero unique tags are detected as indicated at . The test time is four seconds as indicated at .

In a second example shown in spring washer on a single RFID tag is compressed using a wrench socket drive torque wrench or the like to thereby electrically close gap and utilize spring washer as part of antenna for RFID tag . RFID tag acts as a sensor and may sometimes be referred to by those of skill as a sensor. In the second example RFID tag produces tension information signal See . At the same distance of three feet shows the display user interface from the commercial RFID reader following compression of spring washer . In contrast to the display shown in the first example of it can be seen in the second example that interrogator successfully reads a single unique RFID tag as indicated at . The tag is read fifty seven times as indicated at with a measured average read rate of 13.5 reads second is indicated at . The peak read rate of 41.2 reads second is shown at . The test time is four seconds as indicated at . It will be appreciated that the system will provide the number of unique tags read if multiple different fasteners are utilized along with read information for each.

The information transmitted by RFID may comprise numerous bits e.g. ninety six bits or other amounts depending on the type of RFID integrated circuit . The RFID identification bits may be used by software in interrogator in accord with the present invention to indicate the location of the particular fastener that is not sufficiently tightened. The software may interpret the data from RFID to show a numeral color and or other indicia that allow visual detection of any particular fastener s that are compromised. Each RFID tag sends the information for unique identification thereof which can then be utilized for color or numeral interpretation. Each RFID tag may comprise bar code information on the circuit board that can be scanned for use in the software of interrogator to quickly program information to relate RFID tag circuit board identification numbers indicia color or other features with the particular RFID tag . The numbers colors indicia shapes or the like may be reflective for easier visual detection.

In the third example of RFID tag is moved a distance of nine feet from the reader antenna. In this example interrogator user interface detects a single unique RFID tag as indicated at . The interrogator received the tension indication signal from RFID tag seventy times. The test time was four seconds as indicated at . Accordingly in the third example it will be noted that an increased distance of ten feet between interrogator and RFID tag as compared with the second example using a distance of three feet between interrogator and RFID tag resulted in an increased the number of reads. This shows that increased distance between interrogator and RFID tag does not necessarily result in poorer performance but can sometimes result in improved performance which shows the usefulness of testing in anechoic chamber to eliminate background factors as a cause for the change in read rate. In the example the average read rate in the third example as indicated at is 17.1 reads second. The peak read rate is 19.0 reads second.

In the case of multiple RFID tag elements which may comprise a single circuit board could be used with a common large antenna wherein multiple processors associated with each individual fastener could be programmed to transmit at different intervals frequencies or the like after receiving interrogation signal . In another embodiment multiple resilient switches at each fastener connect to a single integrated circuit programmed to transmit the status of all tensioners during each read using antenna . The larger antenna provides more power to the integrated circuit from interrogator signal for charging operating capacitors in the integrated circuit with the possibility of greater programming processing functions of the integrated circuit.

In s schematic illustration antenna may be segmented and include director element or separate antenna element which is separated by insulator regions . Other antenna arrangements such as coils or the like may be utilized to direct the antenna transmission greater distances so that a user would have instructions perhaps included in the programming of interrogator to stand at a certain region or angle with respect to underlying structure see for more consistent reading of signals.

Interrogator can be used to send interrogation signal which can provide power for the RFID tags to respond with signals such as signal . The increased power collection of power utilizing a larger antenna could be used to power a more powerful integrated circuit that has data lines that connect to each corresponding switch spring washer or the like used with each fastener .

As discussed hereinbefore computer and or interrogator may comprise software that provides location information for fasteners that are sufficiently tightened and or for fasteners that are not sufficiently tightened. For purposes herein a computer is defined as an electronic device designed to accept data and perform prescribed mathematical and logical operations. Indicia such as numbers 1 12 may be included adjacent each fastener that indicates visual indication that any particular fastener is properly tensioned or has become or never was properly tensioned. Tension indication signal may include information that programming of reader and or may be utilized to provide that user interface displays the particular fastener numbers that should be further inspected. Accordingly software provides identification information for each individual RFID tag or a single RFID integrated circuit to allow a user to more quickly locate and tighten a loose fastener.

While the use of an RFID tag with each desired fastener or group of fasteners provides cost increase the cost is offset by reduced manual labor to monitor the status of the fasteners. Thus it is possible to reduce the overall costs of manufacturing with the present invention for those projects where monitoring fasteners is required. The present invention provides a relatively simple and low cost solution to reduce failures and the very high cost of potential of catastrophic failures. The history of the status of each fastener can be recorded and kept for maintenance purposes. A substantial amount of quality control labor can be saved due to the elimination of a need for manual checking of each fastener. Moreover the present invention provides a much higher reliability that each fastener is tightened as compared to manual checks. The technology also allows the status of every fastener to be tracked over time.

Accordingly the various RFID tags discussed herein can be made very simply for reliability. The circuit board materials can be high strength materials made to be shock robust and resistant to vibration failure. For operation in corrosive acidic environments the RFID tags can be coated with corrosive resistant materials to make the tags corrosive resistant will not affect the operation. The torque or tension to turn the circuit on can be calibrated.

Accordingly the present invention offers the ability to remotely and quickly verify that a given fastener is tensioned properly upon initial installation as well as over the life of the fastener. The present invention provides the capability of using off the shelf sensor tag components and fasteners as well as reduced need for manual labor in monitoring the tension of the fasteners. This results in cost savings over the life of the fastener and host system as well as improved fastener and safety performance.

The RFID fastener system described herein can be used in many industries such as but not limited to aerospace automotive military systems ship building complex building construction heavy equipment manufacturing and other complex structures such as bridges piers dams and recreational theme park equipment. The design of system can be adapted to many specific usage parameters. The need for improved fastener monitoring is widely acknowledged by those of skill in the art due to catastrophic failures attributed to loose bolts.

As discussed above many possible variations of circuit board antenna arrangement ring type or other series connections to the RFID tag could be utilized.

Terms such as tension used herein can relate to the torque compression force or the like for fasteners. Fasteners of many different types can be monitored with the present invention. The fasteners are not limited to specific materials such as metals alloys plastics brass or the like. As used herein terms such as sufficient tension represent a necessary or predetermined amount of tension torque force or the like needed in a fastener application. As one possible example sufficient tension indicates at a minimum that gap is electrically closed. In this embodiment insufficient tension indicates that gap is not electrically closed.

Where applicable corresponding terms to sensor RFID tags torque tension pressure compression springs spring members or other terms as determined by those of skill in the art can be considered equivalents for purposes of the attached claims for interpretation of infringing uses.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

