---

title: Code planning for wireless communications
abstract: Scrambling code conflicts can be mitigated by primary scrambling code reuse that minimizing a potential interference Primary scrambling codes are applied to a first set of cells located in a portion of the network being considered. A second set of cells are evaluated for primary scrambling code reuse based on a distance parameter and/or a coverage area. If the distance parameter is greater than a defined distance, primary scrambling code reuse can be applied. If all distance parameters evaluated are less than the distance parameter, a length of the distance parameter is reduced and the distance between cells is reevaluated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08937934&OS=08937934&RS=08937934
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08937934
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140415
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 557 960 filed Jul. 25 2012 and entitled CODE PLANNING FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to code planning for wireless communications.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls or poor quality communications can occur due to scrambling code confusion which can occur when a mobile device encounters two sectors that utilize the same scrambling code.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of example non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some example non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow. It is also noted that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

The disclosed aspects can be configured to assign scrambling codes to cells while verifying that the scrambling codes are not reused within a defined distance or based on other parameters e.g. actual coverage area of each cell . This assignment of scrambling codes can improve e.g. maximize the reuse distance of scrambling codes to minimize a potential interference level. The assignment of scrambling codes as disclosed herein can also mitigate primary scrambling code confusion and or neighbor conflicts. Further the disclosed aspects can assign scrambling codes such that radio link failures are mitigated and dropped call performance is improved e.g. the occurrence of dropped calls is reduced .

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS the subject disclosure is not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed aspects can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

In an example embodiment an aspect relates to a system comprising at least one memory and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory. The at least one memory stores computer executable instructions. The at least one processor facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to identify a segment of a wireless communications network for assignment of scrambling codes to a plurality of base stations located within the segment. The at least one processor also facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to determine a core of the segment. The core is a portion of the segment comprising at least a pre defined number of base stations. Further the at least one processor also facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to reserve a first set of scrambling codes of the scrambling codes. The first set of scrambling codes can be reserved for a first set of base stations of the plurality of base stations within the core. The at least one processor also defines a center for the segment. Further the at least one processor can also facilitate execution of the computer executable instructions to assign a second set of base stations of the plurality of base stations in the segment. The assignment can be performed in an order based on distances of the second set of base stations from the center. Further a first base station in the first set of base stations and a second base station of the second set of base stations can be assigned a same scrambling code. Further the at least one processor facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to convey respective scrambling codes to the first set of base stations and the second set of base stations.

Another aspect relates to a method that includes determining by a system comprising a processor a first allocation of a first set of primary scrambling codes to a first set of base station of a plurality of base stations located in a populated area of a wireless communications network having at least a pre defined population. The method also includes determining by the system a second allocation of a second set of primary scrambling codes for each base station of a second set of base stations of the plurality of base stations. The determining is based on at least one of a distance between base stations of the plurality of base stations and a coverage area of each base station. Further the method includes assigning by the system the first set of primary scrambling codes to the first set of base stations and the second set of primary scrambling codes to the second set of base stations. Scrambling codes of the first set of primary scrambling codes are reused in the second set of primary scrambling codes.

A further aspect relates to a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations include identifying a portion of a network that comprises at least a pre defined number of base stations and assigning primary scrambling codes to a first set of base stations in the portion of the network. The operations can also include evaluating a second set of base stations in the portion of the network for reuse of the primary scrambling codes. The evaluation can be based on a distance between base stations that are assigned a same scrambling code and a coverage area of each base station. Further the operations include selectively applying the primary scrambling codes to the second set of base stations as a result of the evaluating. A same primary scrambling code is applied to a first base station in the first set of base stations and a second base station in the second set of base stations.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting wireless communications environment in which the disclosed aspects can be utilized according to an embodiment. A wireless communications environment can comprise any number of cells e.g. sites sectors base stations and so forth . The illustrated wireless communications environment includes a first cell a second cell a third cell and a fourth cell although more or fewer than four cell can be utilized in a wireless communications environment. Each cell has a respective geographic area or coverage area. For example first cell has a first coverage area second cell has a second coverage area third cell has a third coverage area and fourth cell has a fourth coverage area .

In an example the cells can be UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network cells. Each cell can be assigned a primary scrambling code PSC . A PSC is a code utilized to distinguish each cells s transmissions from transmissions from other cells. There can be about 512 available PSCs numbered 0 through 511. Although each cell should be assigned a unique PSC since there are a finite number of PSCs and there can be thousands of cells some reuse of each PSC might be necessary in a wireless communications environment.

Also illustrated in are two mobile devices labeled as a first mobile device and a second mobile device although more than two mobile devices can be operated within the wireless communications environment . As utilized herein a mobile device can include a UMTS based electronic device such as but not limited to a cell phone a PDA personal digital assistant a media player a digital camera a media recorder a laptop a personal computer a printer a scanner a tablet a GPS global positioning system module a gaming module and so forth. Further the device can also include UMTS based appliances that can be employed for example in a home office building retail store restaurant hotel factory warehouse and so on. As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity.

The mobile devices differentiate each of the cells based on the PSC of the cell. Thus the mobile devices should know the correct PSC of a cell in order to access that cell e.g. during handoff . For example PSCs can differentiate WCDMA Wideband CDMA radios from one another as detected by mobile devices e.g. user equipment . If the mobile device could receive at the same time communication from more than one cell e.g. a first cell and a second cell assigned the same PSC confusion or conflict can result. In this case the mobile device might intend to handoff to a specific cell but is instead handed off to a different cell due to the PSC conflict.

As discussed above Radio Access Network RAN planners have about 512 possible PSCs to assign to each of the radios e.g. cells . Thus there can be PSC reuse throughout the various wireless communications networks since a network can have more than about 512 cells. The RAN planners can consider the radios that are located in proximity to each other and attempt to distribute the PSCs so that two or more cells having the same PSC are not able to be detected by a mobile device at the same time e.g. two cells using the same scrambling code interfere with each other .

For convenience RAN planners might assign the same PSC to all carriers in the same sector. In an example a base station might have three sectors and within each sector there might be four carriers. Among these four carriers the same PSC might be assigned e.g. carrier 1 is assigned PSC and within the same sector carrier 2 is assigned PSC since there is usually no interference or ambiguity between different carriers. The ambiguity and thus conflict exists when PSCs are assigned to cells in the same carrier frequency. As stated the noted scheduling is a convenience for RAN planners however this deployment of PSC reuse might not maximize the reuse distance. This is because a given carrier might only be deployed in a selected area and does not allow for the reuse distance to be extended as far as possible.

The various aspects disclosed herein can provide a direct means to allocate PSCs to each of the cells e.g. UTRAN cells while maximizing PSC reuse distance and or while minimizing the potential interference level. By maximizing the reuse distance or by minimizing the potential interference level potential problems can be mitigated including problems associated with PSC confusion or PSC conflict. The disclosed aspects can also perform PSC planning with considerations for both the distance between the cells and or azimuth and or beam width e.g. coverage area considerations.

In an example each UTRAN cell can be assigned a unique PSC. UTRAN cells are differentiated by their PSCs and mobile devices should know the correct PSC of a cell in order to access that cell. Further PSC reuse distance can be maximized to avoid potential problems. Such problems that can occur include PSC confusion which occurs when the network cannot identify which cell the mobile device is reporting on. Another problem that can occur is interference among cells sharing the same PSC. Poor PSC planning can result in dropped calls.

PSCs are assigned by RF engineers based on high level engineering rules. This can be performed based on principles to minimize PSC collisions however PSCs are assigned on an ad hoc basis through a manual method. As UTRAN expands coverage PSC assignment to new cells should take into account other existing cells. Due to the large effort involved this might be performed by considering immediate neighbor cells only resulting in a non optimal PSC plan. To simplify the PSC assignment problem the same PSC can sometimes be used for all carriers for the same face. Though this provides some degree of simplicity for RF engineers it can cause sub optimal PSC assignments. The net results are more dropped calls more call setup failures and reduced Erland capacity to the network.

The disclosed aspects provide a PSC tool that can improve the reuse distance eliminate PSC neighbor conflicts reduce radio link failures and improve the dropped call performance. Further the disclosed aspects can be utilized to assign scrambling codes to carriers. This can be facilitated by ensuring that PSCs are not reused within an optimal distance.

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector NodeB site and so forth . As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the disclosed aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of simplicity while explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and computer executable instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components and instructions stored in the memory . It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory and operatively connected to each other in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can also include a cluster component that can be configured to identify a segment of a wireless communications network for assignment of PSCs to a plurality of cells located within the segment. For example the wireless communications environment can include thousands of cells only four of which are illustrated. Due to the vast number of cells and the finite number of available PSCs e.g. about 512 PSCs there might be a need to assign and or reassign PSCs within the network. Such a need might arise in the case where additional cells or base stations are deployed e.g. to provide additional network resources for use within the geographic area . In another implementation the need to reassign PSCs might arise due to the detection of PSC conflicts and or the presumption of PSC conflicts due to problems within the network e.g. dropped calls poor call quality and so forth .

As indicated a wireless communications network can include thousands of cells. However it might not be feasible to assign and or reassign PSCs to all of the thousands of cells at substantially the same time since the cells are taken offline e.g. turned off during at least a portion of the assignment reassignment process. Thus cluster component can identify one or more segments for assignment reassignment of the PSC for cells within the segment. The identified segment can comprise a set of cells which can be taken offline for the PSC assignment reassignment process.

In an example the cluster component can identify the segment based on the different markets and or based on different teams e.g. network operators that are managing the different cells. For example one team might be working on cells in the Los Angeles market and another team might be working on cells within the San Francisco market or the San Diego market. When the Los Angeles team is ready to perform PSC planning the team cannot assume that cells within the San Diego or San Francisco market can be changed. Thus the territory can be defined e.g. by cluster component and boundaries around that territory can be established. At least a subset of cells within the boundaries can be modified during the PSC assignment reassignment. Thus the subset of cells within the boundaries are considered during the PSC planning and cells outside the boundaries can be ignored.

In another implementation the PSCs associated with cells located outside boundary of the segment of the wireless communication network can be locked and PSC planning is not performed on those cells. Locking the cells close to the region s boundary can isolate the impact of PSC planning to other regions. Further when PSC planning is performed on the cells within the segment whose PSCs are not locked reuse distances of the locked cells e.g. cells located outside the boundaries are not considered. In an implementation to lock the cells a restriction is applied to the PSCs of the cells outside the boundary.

Also included in system is a density component that can be configured to determine a portion of wireless communications network segment that comprises at least a pre defined number of cells. For example the pre defined number of cells can be a portion that comprises the most cells. The portion of the network is referred to as the core of the segment. The portion of the segment e.g. core having at least the pre defined number of cells can be identified first because this can be a difficult portion of the segment in which to assign PSCs. A distribute component can be configured to reserve a first set of PSCs for a first set of cells within the core. Thus even though the core might have more than about 500 cells at least about 500 cells can be assigned different PSCs before the need arises to reuse PSCs within that segment.

An apportion component can be configured to assign a second set of PSCs to a second set of cells in the segment. The apportion component can assign the second set of PSCs on a cell by cell basis. Further the assignment of the second set of PSCs can be in an order based on distances of the second set of cells from a center defined for the segment. In an implementation the center of the segment can be the center of the core. However the disclosed aspects are not so limited and the center of the segment can be located elsewhere within the segment including within the core. The apportion component can also be configured to assign a third or more set of PSCs to a third or more set of cells in the segment.

The second set of PSCs and subsequent sets of PSCs repeat or reuse the same PSCs as the first set of PSCs e.g. PSC reuse since there is a finite number of PSCs that can be used. Therefore in an implementation the same PSC used within the first set of PSCs and the second set of PSCs are assigned by the apportion component to a first cell in the first set of cells and to a second cell in the second set of cells in a manner that increases a distance between cells that are assigned a same PSC.

In an implementation the assignment of the second set of PSCs and subsequent sets of PSCs can be based on a distance parameter associated with a current cell being evaluated e.g. the cells are evaluated on a cell by cell or individual basis . In another implementation if more than one cell from the second set of cells meets the distance parameter a local random search can be conducted. For example there is back tracking and a local search performed to determine if a different assignment can be made that increases the distance between cells that are assigned the same PSC or that minimizes a potential interference level.

In a further implementation if at least one cell fails to satisfy the condition with respect to the distance parameter a length of the distance parameter can be decreased. In still another implementation the assignment of the PSCs can include finding at least one PSC based on a distance parameter and a coverage range for the first cell of the first set of cells and a second cell of the second set of cells .

In some implementations a neighbor violation can be removed if neighbor cells share a common PSC. Thus if a first cell and a second cell are identified as neighbors e.g. in a neighbor list both the first cell and the second cell might not be permitted to share the same PSC. In another implementation any two cells in a common neighbor list should not be assigned the same PSC. In a further implementation any two cells in a combined neighbor list of an active set should not be assigned to the same PSC.

In some implementations cells on a same NodeB can be assigned PSCs such that there is a PSC separation that conforms to a pre defined separation amount. For example the pre defined separation amount can be a minimum number of PSCs that should be located between assigned PSCs. In an example PSC separation for cells on a same NodeB might be eight. For purposes of this example a NodeB is treated as a physical tower however according to various implementations a tower can have multiple NodeBs. Thus further to this example if a first cell on the NodeB is assigned PSC then a second cell or other cells on the same NodeB cannot be assigned PSCs or or more or PSCs or or less . The pre defined PSC separation amount can be assigned in order to minimize interference.

An output component can be configured to convey respective PSCs to the first set of cells and the second set of cells as well as to subsequent sets of cells . For example after the PSC planning is completed the output component can cause each cell to be updated with its new PSC. The PSC planning and subsequent assignments can be performed automatically such that dynamic deployment of PSCs can occur on an as need basis or based on other criteria e.g. potential PSC conflicts have been detected new cells have been deployed in the network and so forth .

In accordance with some aspects various information related to PSC assignment can be stored in one or more data store s or in another computer readable storage medium. It is noted that a data store can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In an aspect data store s is included as a component within the disclosed system s . However according to other aspects the data store s can be located remote from the system s but can be accessed by the system s such as over an air interface.

In further detail the PSC conflict issue is related to a coloring problem. Vertices illustrated as circles represent cells. An edge illustrated as a line is defined between two vertices if and only if cell distance or weighted cell distance is less than a distance parameter such as a PSC reuse distance. For explanation purposes the simple graph utilizes three colors. A first color is represented by filled circles and . A second color is represented by partially filled circles and . A third color is represented by unfilled circles and .

For the PSC planning issue the question is whether the vertices can be colored by 512 colors such that no two adjacent vertices share the same color. The 512 colors represent the number of PSCs that can be assigned. It should be noted that although generally 512 PSCs are available e.g. numbered 0 to 511 some PSCs might be reserved and not available for assignment to cells. For example the available PSCs can be PSCs 0 through 503 PSC 510 and PSC 511 where PSCs 504 through 509 are reserved .

The graph coloring problem is a NP Complete equation and thus exponential time is generally needed to solve the equation by linear programming. Further in some aspects a heuristic algorithm can be utilized such as a greedy coloring algorithm in an attempt to perform PSC planning. For example greedy coloring can be based on a specific vertices ordering. Further information related to a heuristic approach that can be utilized with the disclosed aspects will be provided below.

Additionally or alternatively system can be configured to maximize a PSC reuse distance during PSC planning. Included in system is a distance evaluator component that can be configured to identify at least one PSC based on a distance parameter for a current cell of second set of cells or subsequent sets of cells .

For example a cluster component can identify a segment of a wireless communications network for which PSCs are to be assigned and or reassigned. A density component can determine a portion of the segment that comprises at least a pre defined number of cells. Further a distribute component can initialize an assigned pool which can include assigning a first set of PSCs to cells within the segment. The distribute component can assign for example 506 different PSCs to 506 cells in the segment even if there are more than 506 cells in the segment . As noted although there can be 512 PSCs available some of the PSCs might be reserved for other uses and not available for assignment to cells.

In an order based on distances of the second set of cells to the center of the assigned pool an apportion component can assign a second set of PSCs to the second set of cells in the segment. The second set of PSCs can be assigned to each cell one by one e.g. on an individual or cell by cell basis . Depending on the number of cells for which PSCs are to be assigned reassigned apportion component can be configured to assign a third set of PSCs to a third set of cells and so on.

The distance evaluator component can identify at least one PSC that has a reuse distance that is greater than a defined reuse distance for a current cell being evaluated. For example the distance evaluator component can be configured to ascertain a location of a first cell in the first set of cells e.g. first cell can be assigned PSC and evaluate a distance between the first cell and a current cell in the second set of cells where the current cell is the cell under evaluation. If the distance is not greater than the defined reuse distance the current cell is not assigned the PSC of the first cell e.g. PSC in this example . In this case the distance evaluator component proceeds to ascertain a location of a second cell in the first set of cells e.g. assigned PSC and compares the distance from the second cell to the current cell being evaluated. If the distance is greater than the defined reuse distance the current cell might be assigned PSC . However if the distance is not greater than the defined reuse distance a subsequent cell in the first set of cells is evaluated and so on. If there are multiple PSCs found that satisfy the defined reuse distance a search component can be configured to perform a local random search.

In an implementation the distance evaluator component can ascertain the location of each of the cells in the first set of cells the second set of cells and the subsequent set of cells based on a known location of each of the cells. For example base stations are placed in a certain geographic area and generally are not moved. Thus the actual location of the base station can be known e.g. when the base station is installed . These various locations can be populated in a database or by another means that can be accessed by distance evaluator component . If there are multiple PSCs found that satisfy the defined reuse distance a search component can be configured to perform a local random search.

System can also include an adjustment component that can be configured to decrease a defined reuse distance if at least one cell cannot be assigned. In this situation distance evaluator component can identify at least one PSC that has a reuse distance that is greater than the adjusted e.g. decreased defined reuse distance.

In an implementation PSC assignment can include a mixed integer programming model. According to the programming model the objective function can be to maximize Z Objective Function Maximize Z which can be subject to various parameters.

where X i k is a binary variable X i k 1 when cell i is assigned to PSC k otherwise X i k 0. Y i j k is a binary variable Z is a continuous variable minimum distance between cells assigned by same code. CELL is a set of cells PSC is a set of PSCs e.g. 506 codes .

A second parameter or constraint can be that there is one PSC per cell. According to this constraint a cell i is assigned to only one PSC which can be represented as 

A third parameter or constraint can be a lower bound constraint which can be represented as Dist CELL and PSC where Dist i j is the Parameter of the distance between cell i and cell j pre calculated.

The first constraint can define the logical relation between variable X and variable Y. The first constraint combined with objective function can imply that 1 when 1 and 1 otherwise 0

In some cases distance is not the sole criteria that should be used to push the reuse distance as far as possible e.g. maximize reuse distance increase a distance between cells that are assigned a same scrambling code to minimize a potential interference level. Thus distance might not be the final criteria used during PSC planning. For example in dense urban settings user locations e.g. mobile device locations can vary by various geographic coordinates including latitude longitude and altitude e.g. three dimensions . In many cities e.g. Manhattan Los Angeles San Francisco Chicago and so forth numerous small footprint sites exist to cover smaller areas. Users through their respective mobile devices might be more prone to see many sites both near and far away due to tall buildings hilltops and so forth. With the higher penetration of sites in smaller geographic areas PSC reuse can become difficult to configure. Thus according to an implementation both distance and coverage area can be considered during the PSC planning.

For example a base station might have two cells that are close to each other. If the cells are facing away from each even if the physical distance between the cells is small there might not be any actual interference because the beams are covering different areas. On the other hand there might be two cells that are physically far away from each other however although the cells are far apart due to the propagation model the cells might actually interfere with each other.

With reference to the color graph problem discussed above the two distance and beamforming scenarios can be represented as removing edges or by adding extra edges to the color graph. For example an edge can be added if the cells are far away from each other but due to the real or actual coverage area the cells actually do interfere. If the cells are physically close but do not interfere an edge can be removed. Thus an edge can be defined based on an actual coverage of the cells. This can be more accurate than using distance as the only criteria.

Illustrated in each of the three cases of are two cells Cell i and Cell j . illustrates a first case where an overlap factor is equal to 1 according to an aspect. In this case the weighted distance of Cell i and Cell j is the distance between the cells divided by the overlap factor of the cells which can be expressed as weighted dist dist overlap factor 

In an example ATOLL cell coverage can be incorporated. A recommended PSC reuse distance should not be a universal value. Instead the PSC reuse distance should depend on cell coverage between two cells. For example a binary indicator U i j can be calculated based on ATOLL predicted coverage. U i j means that cell i and cell j are not interfering with each other based on ATOLL even if the same PSC code is assigned. It is zero otherwise. In the graph representation the edge is defined if and only if U i j is equal to zero.

In an implementation association component can determine whether a first cell and a second cell are defined as neighbors. For example the association component can access one or more neighbor lists intra frequency and or inter frequency to make the determination. A neighbor list is a table that associates each sector or cell with its neighboring sectors and which a mobile device can use to initiate a handover request. The neighbor list can be stored in a database or memory for example.

In an implementation association component can be configured to reconfigure a PSC assignment if neighbor cells share a common PSC. In another implementation association component can be configured to reconfigure a PSC assignment if two cells share a common PSC and are defined as neighbors of a third cell.

For example illustrates an example wireless communications network comprising two cells Cell A and Cell B according to an aspect. As illustrated Cell A and Cell B are in close proximity and their respective geographic areas overlap as indicated at . In this scenario the PSCs for the cells were not assigned properly and both Cell A and Cell B were assigned PSC C2. Since these cells are neighbors a mobile device might be in the overlapping coverage area of the cells and can receive communications from both cells. In this case a conflict is created because the mobile device has been provided the same identifier e.g. PSC C2 for both cells. Thus the mobile device cannot properly identify which cell it is communicating with and or might be communicating with both cells but the communication is not synchronized. Further the mobile device might not be aware that the two cells are in conflict. This scenario can result in dropped calls and or high block error rate as well as other communication problems. For example the network is unable to identify which cell the mobile device is reporting on. Thus the mobile attempts to decode both of them resulting in a high Block Error Rate BLER 

Additionally or alternatively a neighbor violation can be removed if two cells share a common primary PSC and are defined as neighbors of a third cell. For example illustrates a potential scrambling code conflict issue within a wireless communications network according to an aspect. As illustrated Cell A and Cell B have been assigned the same PSC C2. In this scenario Cell A and Cell B are not neighbors. However Cell C which has been assigned PSC C1 is a neighbor of both Cell A and Cell B . For example Cell C can have a neighbor list that identifies both Cell A and Cell B as well as other cells as candidates for the mobile device to handover to. As illustrated the mobile device can be located in an overlapping coverage area between Cell C and Cell A and intends to handover to Cell A and identifies this cell with PSC C2. Since Cell C has two neighboring cells identified with PSC C2 mobile device can handoff to either Cell A or to Cell B . In this case Cell C might believe mobile device intends to handover to Cell B and facilitates such handover which can result in a dropped communication.

The PSC conflict illustrated in can cause dropped calls by the mobile device and or other communication issues. For example the network can become confused as to the real neighbor of the mobile device on Cell C. Thus the mobile device could handoff to the wrong neighbor resulting in dropped calls.

As illustrated in the neighbors of the active set have the same PSC. For example the combined neighbor list for active set Cell C and Cell D has neighbors Cell A Cell B with common PSCs. This can result in the inability to distinguish between Cell A Cell B which can cause a higher probability of dropped calls.

For example since cells for which PSCs are being assigned and or reassigned might be taken off line in order for the updates to be performed only portions of a wireless communications network might be updated at a given time. Thus the PSCs of cells close to a region s boundary can be restricted from being changed in order to isolate the impact of assignment reassignment of PSCs to other regions.

System also includes a density component that can be configured to determine a core e.g. area comprising at least a pre defined number of cells of the segment. A distribute component can be configured to reserve a first set of PSCs for a first set of cells within the core. An apportion component can be configured to assign in an order based on distances of the second set of cells from a center of the segment a second set of PSCs to the second set of cells in the segment on a cell by cell basis. The center of the segment can be defined before the assignment or at substantially the same time as the assignment.

In an implementation a distance evaluator component can be configured to identify at least one PSC based on a distance parameter for a current cell of a second set of cells. The distance evaluator component also can be configured to ignore a reuse distance between the cells whose PSCs are restricted from being changes e.g. locked . Ignoring the reuse distance can include bypassing assignment of one or more PSCs based on a distance between the third set of cells and the second set of cells for example.

Additionally or alternatively system can include a location component that can be configured to determine a geographic location of each cell. Cells that are at the same physical location e.g. NodeB can be identified by location component . The cells at the same NodeB for example can have a pre defined separation amount. Thus when a PSC is assigned to each of the cells on the same NodeB each cell can be assigned a PSC such that each cell has a PSC separation that confirms to the pre defined separation amount. In an example the pre defined PSC separation amount is eight however according to some aspects a different pre defined PSC amount can be utilized. Further when a cell is being added to the assigned pool co NodeB cells already in the pool can be checked to verify that a PSC separation amount is in conformance with the pre defined separation amount.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that should be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be information stored in database and the classes can be categories or areas of interest e.g. distances between cell pairs coverage areas of each cell .

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily noted the disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. through observing PSC reuse observing distances between cells receiving extrinsic information retrieving intrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured through a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to assigning PSCs to cells such that minimizing a potential interference level and or maximum reuse distance is achieved. The criteria can include but is not limited to distances between cells actual coverage area of each cell consideration of one or more constraints and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component and so forth . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor.

The first set of PSCs are assigned to the first set of cells and the second set of PSCs are assigned to the second set of cells at . Each cell in the first set of cells and the second set of cells is assigned a PSC. A first cell in the first set of cells and a second cell in the second set of cells are assigned a same scrambling code e.g. scrambling code reuse .

According to an aspect method can include identifying that the first cell and the second cell are defined as neighbors that share a PSC. Further to this aspect the PSC of the first cell or the second cell is changed based in part on the neighbor definition. According to another aspect method can include identifying that the first cell and the second cell are defined as neighbors by a third cell wherein the first cell and the second cell are assigned the same PSC. Further to this aspect the method can include changing the PSC of the first cell or the second cell as a function of the identifying.

According to an aspect the determination includes determining at the distance between a first cell of the first set of cells and a second cell of the second set of cells. At a determination is made that the distance is greater than a pre defined distance. Thus at the PSC of the first cell is reserved for reuse by the second cell.

In accordance with some aspects the determination includes measuring at the distance between a first cell of the first set of cells and a second cell of the second set of cells. Based on this measurement a determination is made at that the distance is less than a predefined distance. Thus at a second distance between a third cell of the first set of cells and the second cell is evaluated. At it can be concluded that the second distance is greater than the predefined distance. At the PSC of the third cell is reserved for use by the second cell.

Method continues at when the first set of PSCs is applied to the first set of cells and the second set of PSCs is applied to the second set of cells. The application of the first and second set of PSCs is configured to provide for maximum reuse distance of the PSCs and or to minimize a potential interference level. In an example a potential interference level can be determined by measuring a relative interference between two cells e.g. via external tools via measurements in the communications network and so forth . In another example a potential interference level can be determined by measuring the number of times a given cell site is detected by a mobile device that is measuring for neighbors.

According to an aspect the determination includes measuring at a plurality of distances between cells of the first set of cells and cells of the second set of cells. At it is concluded that at least one distance of the plurality of distances does not satisfy a condition with respect to a predefined distance. Thus at a length of the predefined distance is reduced.

After the predefined distance length is reduced at the plurality of distances between cells of the first set of cells and cells of the second set of cells are re measured. At it is determined that at least one distance of the plurality of distances satisfies a condition with respect to the predefined distance. At the first set of PSCs is applied to the first set of cells and the second set of PSCs is applied to the second set of cells.

At all unassigned cells i are looped over in an order determined by a distance from the portion of the network that comprises at least the pre defined number of cells and each of the unassigned cells. For example if there exists any p such that for all j x j p 1 dist i j min dist then set x i p 1 and add cell i to the assigned pool. Where x i p 1 if PSC p is assigned to cell i otherwise x i p 0 dist i j is the distance between cell i and cell j and min dist is the pre defined minimum PSC reuse distance.

Method continues at with a determination whether all cells are assigned. If all cells are assigned YES method ends. If all cells are not assigned NO method continues at . It is to be understood that looping all unassigned cells at can be recursive and method can continue in such a manner until all cells are assigned.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to perform PSC planning is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while example wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement PSC planning as discussed herein.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation the non transitory computer readable storage medium can store computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include identifying a portion of a network that comprises at least a pre defined number of cells and assigning PSCs to a first set of cells in the portion of the network. The operations can also include evaluating a second set of cells in the portion of the network for reuse of the PSCs. The evaluating can be based on a minimum reuse distance and a coverage area of each cell. The operations can also include selectively applying the PSCs to the second set of cells as a result of the evaluating. A same PSC is applied to a first cell in the first set of cells and a second cell in the second set of cells.

In an aspect the operations can include identifying at least one PSC based on a distance parameter for a current cell in the second set of cells wherein the current cell is being evaluated for PSC reuse. In another aspect the operations can include reassigning a PSC of the second cell if the second cell and the first cell are neighbors or are identified as neighbors by a third cell. According to another aspect the operations can include locking PSC associated with a third set of cells wherein the third set of cells are located outside the portion of the network.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. through access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

