---

title: Systems, methods and devices for small cell activation and detection
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for enabling wireless communication devices in a cellular wireless network to utilize small cells having coverage within a macro cell are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) can detect the need for using a booster providing a small cell, detect availability of small cells and submit a request to infrastructure of the cellular wireless network to aid in connection with the booster that provides the small cell. The request can be enhanced with small cell location queries, small cell activation requests and/or assistance data to enable meaningful small cell selection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572108&OS=09572108&RS=09572108
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09572108
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
The present disclosure relates to wireless cellular service and more particularly relates to cellular transfer and activation.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that the disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Techniques apparatus and methods are disclosed that enable wireless communication devices in a cellular wireless network to utilize small cells having coverage within a macro cell. For example a wireless communication device can detect the need for using a booster providing a small cell detect availability of small cells and submit a request to infrastructure of the cellular wireless network to aid in connection with the booster that provides the small cell. The request can be enhanced with small cell location queries small cell activation requests and or assistance data to enable meaningful small cell selection. An anchor tower such as an evolved node B eNB in the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE selects small cells that match the assistance data received from the UE e.g. describing the UE s current or predicted communication needs etc. and to inform the UE about both small cell deployment locations and small cell activation results for matching small cells

Using these techniques apparatus and methods can result in small cell activation meaningful small cell selection and or dissemination of small cell deployment locations. Small cell activation allows UEs to request small cells that were turned off for power saving be reactivated when UEs in their coverage area express a need. Meaningful small cell selection enables small cells to be selectively activated to serve a given UE and in some embodiments only when a need is given in the request. UEs can be provisioned with location information of small cells coverage areas or the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations that are active and suited in a respective area.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as Wi Fi. Mobile broadband networks can include various high speed data technologies such as 3GPP LTE systems. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE .

In some embodiments a UE has network demands that are taxing on a base station also known as a macro station having macro cell coverage . In one example this situation occurs when a base station is near or already over subscribed for data usage. In another example this situation occurs when a UE has high data or low latency requirements. Instead of taxing the base station the UE with the help of the wireless network infrastructure determines whether a second smaller area cellular station also known as a small cell or booster or small area wireless access node can service the UE. If the small cell can service the UE the UE can transfer all or some of its network traffic to the small cell. In many embodiments the small cell service overlaps with the base station service area.

For example cellular communication networks can include the macro cell layer with macro cell base stations for instance operating according to GSM GPRS EDGE UMTS or LTE LTE Advanced accompanied with an additional small cell layer. In some embodiments these additional small cells will primarily be deployed for capacity improvement e.g. in traffic hot spots or for coverage enhancements e.g. at macro cell edge or in coverage holes of the macro cell layer such as subway stations shopping malls etc. . The small cell layer will be offered by small low power base stations that can for instance be mounted at street furniture and alike. Small cell base stations also referred to as Booster eNB or booster can offer access links to UE according to LTE millimeter wave technology mmWave or both of these radio technologies.

Small cell base stations can have a wired backhaul connection into the mobile network operator s core network. There can be cases however in which a wired backhaul connection is not possible for a variety of different reasons e.g. too difficult or expensive to be installed . Another option for seamless integration of small cell base stations into the existing network topology of a mobile communication network is therefore the usage of mmWave frequency bands also for backhaul links. In some embodiments for wireless backhaul provisioning it can be advantageous to deploy small cell base stations under macro cell coverage and to let one of the macro cell base stations serve the small cell base station wirelessly. A macro cell base station that is serving a small cell base station is referred to as Anchor eNB Anchor Tower or anchor. 

A wireless backhaul link can be a direct point to point connection between booster and anchor or it can be a multi hop connection with a number of mmWave capable relay nodes in between as shown in . In one embodiment it can be possible that mmWave capable infrastructure nodes serve as a relay and booster at the same time i.e. a combined relay booster device . Frequency bands in the mmWave range are well suited to offer larger bandwidths. Furthermore they have excellent spatial reuse properties that can be exploited for a higher degree of network densification.

In some embodiments the infrastructure side provides detailed information about small cell locations to UEs either in broadcast mode to all UEs in a given cell or via dedicated signaling to a selected number of UEs. In another embodiment these pieces of information are disseminated by an infrastructure node upon UE request. In another embodiment a method allows UEs not only to query location details about small cell sites but also to submit requests for small cell activation.

Turning to an example of a portion of a radio access network RAN system that includes a single cellular air interface such as an LTE LTE Advanced access link being provided between the anchor and the UE i.e. on Access Link A and an air interface a supplemental network interface such as an mmWave based interface being provided between the booster and the UE i.e. on Access Link B . UE is located in within macro cell coverage . The UE determines that connection with a booster will be beneficial to a user of the UE . The UE requests the wireless infrastructure e.g. the anchor tower or core network which is not shown in to provide a booster . The wireless infrastructure can select a list of available boosters that are in the area of the UE or can service the UE . The wireless infrastructure represented by the anchor tower can determine one or more small cells serviced by boosters in which the UE might receive service. If the booster s is not already active an activation command can be sent by the wireless infrastructure or UE to wake the booster from a low power state. An activation response can be optionally received to notify of the success of the command. The infrastructure can provide the determined information about one or more small cells to the UE . The UE can then examine the information to determine if a connection to a booster is possible. If so the UE can connect with booster on Access Link B. In some embodiments the UE retains Access Link A to anchor tower . The UE can offload some or part of wireless services onto Access Link A. In other embodiments the UE disconnects from Access Link A and moves all wireless services to Access Link B. In some embodiments Access Link A and Access Link B use a same frequency and technology. In other embodiments Access Link A and Access Link B use different frequencies e.g. LTE licensed frequencies and mmWave frequencies and different link technology e.g. LTE and Wi Fi . In other embodiments Access Link A and Access Link B use different frequencies and the similar link technology e.g. LTE and LTE over mmWave .

The booster can provide services that are not available through anchor tower . In one embodiment the booster can provide more throughput and or smaller lag time e.g. through mmWave technology for high bandwidth and or low latency needs of a UE . In another embodiment the booster can provide congestion relief for an anchor tower by taking traffic normally destined for the anchor tower . In other embodiments the booster can provide small cell coverage over areas of the macro cell that have degraded performance.

A need can be based in requirements thresholds comparisons services service levels value estimations value comparisons etc. For example a wireless network device can determine that wireless service received through a network interface degrades below a threshold value. In another example a mobile device can determine that a base station does not provide services demanded or required by the mobile device. In one example a client can determine that service value provided by a first cellular interface is less than an estimated value over a second cellular interface. In each of these examples the need is not met and a connection to a booster can be desirable.

Depending on the embodiment the provisioning of small cell location information to the UE can be dynamic or static. The wireless infrastructure can communicate this information through system information broadcasts dedicated signaling or through Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMAR DAM objects.

In some embodiments the wireless infrastructure provides a broadcast of information about boosters available to UE within a coverage area. This broadcast of booster locations and or service areas e.g. small cells allows for UE to store and use the information when needed. In one embodiment the UE can use the radio resource control RRC layer to request a broad cast of booster information from the infrastructure see e.g. . In another embodiment anchor towers can broadcast booster information to UE within the macro cell coverage . In some embodiments a broadcast can be provided to UE in an IDLE and CONNECTED mode of operation. The coverage area can be a macro cell coverage or a set of anchor towers that cover a region. In some embodiments the set of towers can vary with the anchor tower to which the UE is connected e.g. within a 100 mile radius .

In some embodiments the infrastructure provides dedicated signaling to the UE for information about small cells. Depending on the embodiment the infrastructure can provide small cell information on demand from the UE or it can provide an update of small cell information to the UE depending on UE location or environment information e.g. geographical location connected anchor tower UE speed and direction etc. . In other embodiments the dedicated signaling can be performed at the RRC layer for a single UE residing in a CONNECTED mode of operation.

In some embodiments the infrastructure uses OMAR DAM objects to inform the UE regarding information about small cells. In one embodiment the OMAR DAM uses a semi static approach that uses application layer functionality. For example the infrastructure can send out a OMAR DAM message formatted in XML that describes an OMAR DAM object containing location information of boosters and their associated small cell coverage .

In other embodiments the UE provides assistance data of the UE to the wireless infrastructure that allows the wireless infrastructure to better determine which booster s to provide to the UE . Using the assistance data the wireless infrastructure selects a booster in which the UE is within the small cell . The booster can be activated if needed and the UE notified of the booster . The UE can then connect to the booster .

Assistance data can include mobility behavior location information and or media consumption information. Mobility behavior can include speed heading direction vector etc. Location information can include GPS data RF fingerprints Wi Fi Networks in Range etc. Media consumption information can include quality of service QoS requirements type of application flags describing delay tolerance or real time characteristics of traffic etc.

Other cellular radio access technologies such as GSM GPRS EDGE or UMTS can be used as well as other noncellular radio access technology such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth . Both access links A and B may be based on the same radio access technology or on different radio access technologies. These may either be cellular or noncellular as described above.

Inside the UE the transceiver module for Access Link B can either be on or off. In either case the UE will not receive any DL signals from the booster as long as the booster is turned off as shown in .

In one embodiment the system can include a plurality of radio access networks RANs through which the UE can access IP services or other data services such as voice services or the Internet. The system can include a global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE RAN GERAN a UTRAN and an E UTRAN which provide access to communication services through a core network. Each of the RANs can operate according to a specific 3GPP radio access technology RAT . For example the GERAN implements GSM and or EDGE RAT the UTRAN implements universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS RAT or other 3GPP RAT and the E UTRAN implements LTE RAT. Other technologies can include a mmWave based RAT 802.11a 802.11g 802.11n 802.11 ac any other 802.11 RAT or an 802.16 RAT through a WiMAX RAN .

In the embodiment each of the RANs includes one or more base stations or other infrastructure for wirelessly communicating with the UE and providing access to communication services. For example the E UTRAN includes one or more eNBs which are configured to wirelessly communicate with the UE.

While examples and an order of operations performed are discussed in this disclosure the examples are provided with specifics for purposes of clarity. It should be recognized that the ordering of method operations can be switched and or performed concurrently. In some methods operations can be left out or added without departing from a scope of the embodiment described see e.g. . In some methods operations may be performed by different equipment e.g. the UE may perform operations attributed to the infrastructure or vice versa .

Example A shows operation of a booster without an anchor . The UE can connect to a booster over access link available in a small cell provided by booster . The booster can connect to the infrastructure such as infrastructure in the evolved packet core EPC over an interface such as an S1 interface to the EPC . In some embodiments the interface can be achieved through a wired or wireless such as point to point connection to the infrastructure.

For example a UE can request that infrastructure through an anchor node provide a list of boosters available to the UE . The UE can provide assistance information that includes a location of the UE . The infrastructure can determine that a booster can provide the services requested by the UE . The infrastructure can message the booster over interface to cause the booster to come out of a low power state. The infrastructure can then send the UE information about the booster including location information. The UE can connect to the booster and drop a prior connection to the anchor. Communications can then flow from the UE over an access link through the booster over an interface to infrastructure and to a destination such as the Internet or a portion of the infrastructure and back.

Example B shows operation of a booster with an anchor . The UE connects to a booster over access link available in a small cell provided by booster . The booster can connect with the anchor over a backhaul link . In some embodiments the backhaul link is over point to point wireless. In other embodiments the backhaul link is over a wired connection. The anchor can connect to the infrastructure over an interface . By using an anchor s interface to the infrastructure the booster can share existing high speed links to infrastructure that may not be saturated even when the wireless service of an anchor is saturated.

For example a wired interface such as optical fiber between the anchor tower such as an eNB and the infrastructure such as an EPC can include unused throughput e.g. bandwidth even when a set of UE saturate the anchor s LTE RAN. Using a second communication channel such as a point to point wireless interface a booster can communicate with the anchor and make use of the unused throughput. UE that connects to the booster can therefore receive better service than if the UE connected with the anchor . In some embodiments the booster can use a different RAT than an LTE RAT such as mmWave small cellular technology such that competition interference for the spectrum of the LTE RAT is not influenced.

Example C shows operation of a booster with a relay node . The UE connects to a booster over access link available in a small cell provided by booster . The booster can connect with the relay node over a relay backhaul link . In some embodiments the relay backhaul link is over point to point wireless. In other embodiments the relay backhaul link is over a wired connection. The relay node can connect with the anchor over a second backhaul link . The anchor can connect to the infrastructure over an interface .

For example a booster can be placed at street level where a line of sight wireless connection with an anchor is not possible. A relay node can be placed within the line of sight of the booster and anchor . The relay node can then use point to point wireless technology to act as a bridge between the booster and the anchor . In some embodiments a relay can service multiple boosters and an anchor can service multiple relay nodes and boosters .

Example D shows operation of a remote booster with a remote radio head . The UE connects to a remote booster over access link available in a small cell provided by remote radio head . The remote radio head can be located away from remote booster and transfer signals between the remote radio head and UE over fronthaul link . The remote booster can connect with the anchor over a backhaul link . In some embodiments the backhaul link is over point to point wireless. In other embodiments the backhaul link is over a wired connection. The anchor can connect to the infrastructure over an interface .

One of skill in the art will recognize that numerous other components and functions can be included or implemented in the core network the anchor or other infrastructure.

In some embodiments the UE can send enhanced information such as UE location to infrastructure which can select a booster to which the UE can connect. This information can be sent to the UE which uses the information to connect to the selected booster.

For example the method of can be implemented in as shown in . shows seven phases and that are implemented by different systems and .

In phase a UE determines a need to connect with a small cell. The UE can have multiple determinations that result in a determination for a need to connect with a small cell. In an embodiment a UE has lost connection with a small cell and determines a need to connect to another small cell. In some embodiments In one embodiment a user UE or an application executing on the UE uses a service that is preferred recommended mandated for operation in conjunction with a small cell. This service restriction can come from the mobile network operator through operator policy third party service provider through service contract the UE based on data bandwidth demand versus current data bandwidth offerings or the user through user preferences.

In phase the UE determines an availability of small cells to the UE . The UE enters an area location which is known to the UE to be covered by a small cell. This knowledge can be derived by information transmitted previously to the UE or the UE has stored relevant location information from a previous successful connection establishment with a small cell. Location information can include geographical coordinates RF fingerprints etc.

In phase the UE can request access from the anchor to a small cell. These request can include messages and information elements as described in conjunction with . In one embodiment the UE queries location information related to small cell deployment. The UE sends out a query to the Anchor eNB asking to be provisioned with location information related to small cells detailed coverage areas and or with detailed information describing the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations . In another embodiment the UE requests activation of small cells. In order to improve capacity and or coverage at its current location the UE sends out an activation request to the Anchor eNB asking the infrastructure to activate one or more additional small cell s .

In an embodiment the UE adds assistance data to a query or request for access to small cells. The infrastructure can make meaningful decisions with respect to small cell location determination and or small cell activation when the UE adds to the request or query some assistance data pertaining to the UE s environment. The assistance data can be or can be related to mobility behavior location information and or media consumption information. Mobility behavior can include speed heading direction vector etc. Location information can include GPS data RF fingerprints Wi Fi Networks in Range etc. Media consumption information can include quality of service QoS requirements type of application flags describing delay tolerance or real time characteristics of traffic etc.

In phase the anchor can select the small cells for servicing the UE . In one embodiment the anchor can evaluate the UE query. The infrastructure side determines small cell base stations that are capable of offering communication services to the UE. If no additional assistance data is provided by the UE in its request query a simple selection routine assumes that all small cells that are or may be operated under the UE s current macro cell are qualified for service provisioning to the UE. All small cells operating under the current macro cell can be selected as potential candidates for the UE. In another embodiment the anchor evaluates the UE query using provided assistance data. Using assistance data e.g. UE geographical position within a macro cell UE need for data throughput etc. the infrastructure side can provide more specific decisions compared with the prior simple selection embodiment by selecting only those small cells from the list of small cells determined by the simple selection that may serve the UE according to the assistance data. Small cells with a coverage area that does not reach out to the UE small cells that do not provide the requested services or small cells that are currently overloaded can be excluded from the list of potential candidates for the UE.

In phase the anchor can send a message causing qualified boosters to activate. For the activation of small cells e.g. that may have been selected in phase the Anchor sends out an activation request to all Booster that fulfill the selection criteria for criteria checking please see phase . The activation request can also be or include a reconfiguration command to be processed in the corresponding small cell base station. The Booster can acknowledge the receipt of the activation request received from the Anchor .

In phase the anchor can transmit the selected small cell information to the UE . The dissemination of location information related to small cells detailed coverage areas and or of detailed information describing the deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations can occur in multiple ways. Three alternatives are discussed as embodiments to get the information from the infrastructure side across the air interface to the UE although others are also possible.

In one embodiment a system information broadcast can be used. Here the infrastructure side uses System Information Broadcast enhancements. This is a very dynamic approach and it takes place at RRC layer. As soon as a small cell s capability or activity changes this change can be reflected in the System Information Broadcast almost immediately. System Information Broadcast is received by all UEs in a given cell regardless of whether the UE is currently residing in IDLE or CONNECTED mode of operation.

A possible encoding example is given in . The macro cell base station e.g. the Anchor disseminates new information elements in its System Information Broadcast for the description of the small cells detailed coverage areas and or for detailed information describing the deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations . If needed these new information elements can be grouped according to the assistance data pertaining to the UE s individual situation as received from the UE in phase . For instance the System Information may comprise a first set of location information intended for a first group of UE s and a second set of location information intended for a second group of UE s . A group of UEs can for instance be formed with UEs having the same or similar communication needs in terms of QoS requirements and mobility characteristics respectively.

In another embodiment dedicated signaling can be used. The infrastructure side uses enhancements in RRC messages in order to inform selected UEs that are residing in CONNECTED mode of operation. As it can be a very dynamic approach changes can be reflected almost immediately whenever a small cell s capability or activity changes. The RRC can be enhanced with new and or updated RRC messages including SmallCellLocationRequest SmallCellLocationResponse SmallCellLocationInfo and SmallCellLocationAcknowledgement as described in conjunction with .

In yet another embodiment OMAR DAM can be used to provide small cell information to the UE. In the embodiment OMAR Device Management is a protocol for device management specified by the Open Mobile Alliance OMAR . The latest available version of the OMAR DAM specification is V2.0 candidate release not yet approved the latest available approved version of OMAR DAM is V1.2.1. OMAR DAM is designed for management of mobile devices such as mobile phones PDAs and tablet computers. Configuration of the device including first time use enabling and disabling features falls within the scope of OMAR DAM as well as changing settings and parameters during device operation. The OMAR DAM protocol uses XML for data exchange including a subset of XML which was defined by SyncML. The device management takes place by communication between a server which is managing the device and the client the device being managed .

For example the communication is initiated by a OMAR DAM server within the infrastructure asynchronously using an available communication channel such as WAP Push or SMS . The initial message from server to client can be in the form of a notification or alert message. A sequence of messages can be exchanged to complete a given device management task. OMAR DAM provides for alerts which are messages that can occur out of sequence and can be initiated by either server or client. The alerts can be used to handle errors abnormal terminations etc. OMAR DAM can make use of application layer functionality to provide the small cell information. A new management object can be defined to enable dissemination of location information related to small cells detailed coverage areas or of detailed information describing the deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations .

In phase the UE processes the small cell information and determines whether to connect with a booster . The UE processes the location information about small cell coverage areas and or deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations received from the Anchor . The UE is enabled to derive whether at its current location coverage or capacity offered by small cell base stations is currently available or can additionally be made available. For this the UE can be required to take the location information which may comprise GPS coordinates RF fingerprints etc. as received convert it into another more suitable format and compare it against its own current or predicted position. After phase the UE connects with the small cell and transfers one or more connections to the small cell.

In the Figures including an Anchor such as an eNB is part of the infrastructure. However this should not be understood to be a restriction there may be case in which the Anchor passes on requests received from the UE to some core network entity such as the mobility management entity MME or receives some instructions from a core network entity e.g. from the MME related to intended for the UE. The term infrastructure should therefore be understood to comprise different types of core network elements and radio access network nodes. As a consequence in phases and the infrastructure element base station Anchor eNB may jointly with other infrastructure elements such as the MME or home subscriber server HSS evaluate any activation requests and or location queries and or select small cells for the information exchange in phase .

The processes described in conjunction with can optionally be modified to add additional operations or remove operations. describe such optional processes. describe processes from the perspective of the UE while describes a process from the perspective of the infrastructure.

For example a cellular device determines that a current connection to an eNB over LTE will not adequately satisfy data demands of a streaming video service. The cellular device sends an RRC message to the EPC requesting a list of capable small cells with assistance data that includes the location travelling vector available RATs and data demands of the streaming video service. The EPC returns an RRC response message to the UE that includes one or more information elements IEs that describe available boosters such as booster eNBs and or boosters compatible with mmWave RAT compatible with the assistance data. The UE selects a small cell described in the IEs such as a mmWave booster and connects with the small cell.

For example a wireless smartphone determines that a current connection with an eNB is degraded due to saturation of the eNB bandwidth due to many UE connections. The wireless smartphone sends an RRC request to the EPC to access a small cell in a list that it had received through OMAR DM. The EPC sends a message to a booster responsible for the small cell causing the booster to wake up from a low power state. The wireless smartphone connects to the activated booster and transfers one or more packet data network PDN connections to the activated booster.

Depending on the embodiment the infrastructure can respond to request for small cells at different levels. For example an anchor tower can be configured with logic to receive and respond to requests from a UE to connect with small cells within this macro cell service area. In another example small cell requests can be processed by the EPC such that an anchor tower acts as a conduit through which requests pass.

Various embodiments described herein can also be used to expand update use and or provide new functionality to existing wireless systems e.g. RATs RANs UTRAN EUTRAN etc. . In an example of an enhanced LTE protocol stack for a UE is shown. The protocol stack can be enhanced with new messages and information elements IEs for use in connecting with small cells.

The stack describes protocol layers in an enhanced LTE protocol stack . These layers can provide abstraction from a lower layer represented as a layer closer to the bottom of the page . A physical layer L1 includes systems that translate physical signals into logical data for use by the higher layers. L1 can also provide measurement and configuration services to the radio resource control RRC layer . The medium access control MAC layer includes systems that perform transport as logical mapping and or scheduling. The MAC layer includes systems that can provide format selection and measurements about the network to the RRC layer . The radio link control RLC layer includes systems that provide segmentation concatenation and reassembly and can operate in different modes depending on a radio bearer. The packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer includes systems that can provide services for higher level protocols including cryptographic functions header compression decompression sequence numbering and or duplicate removal. User traffic can be sent through the PDCP layer to the internet protocol IP layer which is then routed to applications and systems of the UE for use. Control traffic can be sent to the RRC layer . The RRC layer can provide management and control functions of the UE. RRC layer functionality can include processing of broadcast information paging connection management with an eNB integrity protection of RRC messages radio bearer control mobility functions UE measurement and reporting Quality of Service management etc. The non access stratum NAS layer includes systems that can provide mobility management call control session management and or identity management.

The RRC layer and NAS layer can be further enhanced with RRC messages and IEs to aid in connection with small cells. In a first example signaling radio bearers SRBs were successfully established between the anchor base station and the UE so that the UE can use these SRBs to send its location query and or activation request to the infrastructure side. In one embodiment of the first example a new pair of RRC Messages BoosterActivationRequest and BoosterActivationResponse can be used by a UE to request activation of a Booster eNB e.g. over the LTE Uu air interface when an RRC connection between UE and Anchor eNB is already up and running.

In another embodiment a new pair of RRC Messages BoosterLocationQuery and BoosterLocationResults can be used by a UE to retrieve location details related to small cells coverage areas and or information describing the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations when an RRC connection between UE and Anchor eNB is already up and running e.g. over the LTE Uu air interface .

In one embodiment an already existing RRC Message MeasurementReport can be used by a UE when an RRC connection between UE and Anchor eNB is already up and running and if it is enhanced according to this invention to request retrieval of location details related to small cells coverage areas and or information describing the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations and or activation of a Booster eNB.

In a second example signaling radio bearers SRBs are not yet established between the anchor base station and the UE thus UE cannot use SRBs. Instead the UE starts the RRC Connection Establishment procedure which can comprise random access. A first embodiment describes the successful case of the RRC Connection Establishment procedure while A second embodiment describes the unsuccessful case. Both embodiments describe the procedure at RRC layer the random access itself is a MAC layer procedure.

In a first embodiment already existing RRC Messages RRCConnectionRequest and RRCConnectionSetup and RRCConnectionSetupComplete as used in the RRC Connection Establishment procedure when it is successful. The RRC Messages RRCConnectionRequest and RRCConnectionSetupComplete are going in uplink direction and may be used by the UE to request retrieval of location details related to small cells coverage areas and or information describing the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations and or activation of a Booster eNB.

In a second embodiment the already existing RRC Messages RRCConnectionRequest and RRCConnectionReject as used in the RRC Connection Establishment procedure when it is unsuccessful. The RRC Message RRCConnectionRequest going in uplink direction may be used by the UE to request retrieval of location details related to small cells coverage areas and or information describing the deployment locations of respective small cell base stations and or activation of a Booster eNB.

In another example the infrastructure side uses enhancements in RRC messages in order to inform selected UEs that are residing in CONNECTED mode of operation. Changes can be reflected almost immediately whenever a small cell s capability or activity changes. In one embodiment new pair of RRC Messages SmallCellLocationRequest and SmallCellLocationResponse can be used by a UE when an RRC connection to the base station is already up and running over the cellular air interface . RRC Message SmallCellLocationRequest may be sent as part of phase as seen in and RRC Message SmallCellLocationResponse may be sent as part of phase as seen in .

In another embodiment a new pair of RRC Messages includes SmallCellLocationInfo and SmallCellLocationAcknowledgement that can be used by a UE when an RRC connection to the base station is already up and running over the cellular air interface . Both RRC Messages SmallCellLocationInfo and SmallCellLocationAcknowledgement can be sent as part of phase as seen in .

In one embodiment an enhanced existing RRC Message can provide the small cell location information in other RRC Messages to the UE for instance as part of an RRCConnectionReconfiguration RRC Message. Other RRC Messages can also be extended.

RRC systems can include new or enhanced Information Elements in the various RRC Messages that are transmitted over the LTE Uu air interface thereby distinguishing between RRC Messages that are sent from the handset to the tower uplink direction phase and RRC Messages that are sent from the tower to the handset downlink direction phase .

Some embodiments can add at least one of the following new parameters in one of the aforementioned RRCMessages in uplink direction to enable a request or query. The following descriptions of IEs are intended as examples and should not be read to limit the embodiments to these descriptions.

A BoosterLocationQuery Type1 IE can include a range of true or false. This IE can enable the UE to request location information about booster deployment from the infrastructure side.

A BoosterLocationQuery Type2 IE can be a container that includes a boolean LocationRequest and UE Location Information such as coordinates radius area description movement etc. called LocationInfo. This can be used by the UE to request location information about booster deployment from the infrastructure side at the UE s current location .

A BoosterActivationRequest1 IE can include a true or false range. This IE can enable the UE to request activation of booster s from the infrastructure side.

A BoosterActivationRequest2 IE can be a container that includes a boolean ActivationRequest and UE Location Information called LocationInfo. This IE can be used by the UE to request activation of booster s from the infrastructure side at the UE s current location .

A BoosterDetails IE can include a list of locations associated with activities. This IE can be used by the UE to request booster details pertaining to both booster activity and booster location from the infrastructure side. It may be combined with an indication of the UE s current location.

Some embodiments can add at least one of the following new parameters in one of the aforementioned RRC Messages in downlink direction to enable the base station to reply to the UE s request query.

A BoosterLocation IE can describe a location of a booster such as coordinates radius area description movement etc. . This IE can be used by the infrastructure side to indicate to the UE location information pertaining to booster deployment. If the UE indicated its position in the preceding request query then it is clear that the location indicated in this Information Element is related to the best suitable booster for this particular UE. If the UE did not indicate its position in the preceding request query then this Information Element may comprise a list for example comprising several booster locations listed in priority order with all suitable boosters available in the UE s current greater area e.g. serving cell plus neighbors or tracking area etc. .

A BoosterActivity IE can be a container that includes multiple descriptions of boosters each description including an identifier for a booster a cell id and whether the booster has activity. This IE can be used by the infrastructure side to indicate to the UE information pertaining to booster activity in a given location . If the UE indicated its position in the preceding request query then the booster activity indicated in this IE can be related to the best suitable booster for this particular UE. If the UE did not indicate its position in the preceding request query then this IE can comprise a list for example comprising several booster IDs or locations listed in priority order with all active boosters available in the UE s current greater area e.g. serving cell plus neighbors or tracking area etc. .

In an example of data transmitted during a system information broadcast is shown. A System Information Broadcast can be received by all UEs in a given cell regardless of whether the UE is currently residing in IDLE or CONNECTED mode of operation. A possible encoding example is given in . The macro cell base station e.g. the Anchor eNB disseminates new information elements in its System Information Broadcast for the description of the small cells detailed coverage areas and or for detailed information describing the deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations . If needed these IEs can be grouped according to the assistance data pertaining to the UE s individual situation as received from the UE in phase see . For instance the System Information may comprise a first set of location information intended for a first group of UE s and a second set of location information intended for a second group of UE s . A group of UEs can for instance be formed with UEs having the same or similar communication needs in terms of QoS requirements and mobility characteristics respectively.

The encoding variants for LTE LTE Advanced described herein are an example. It should be noted that similar parameters could be used on other air interface technologies according to GSM GPRS EDGE UMTS etc. Furthermore similar parameters could be used on access links based on mmWave technology.

The encoding example shown in can be part of SIBType1 or a completely new and distinct SIBType with a lower order of precedence e.g. SIBType17 which is not yet defined in LTE LTE Advanced .

This data can enable dissemination of a number of IEs pertaining to location information related to small cells detailed coverage areas. Alternatively information describing the deployment locations of the respective small cell base stations may be listed. Here the new structure allows specifying small cell location details for up to MaxNumberSC small cells.

A SmallCellInfo variable can encapsulate a list of small cells represented by SmallCellContainer . SmallCellContainer can describe elements of a small cell including identifiers SmallCellIdentifier coverage SmallCellDimension and its subattributes RAT descriptions RFfingerprint and its sub elements fingerprint tolerance services offered and or quality of services such as real time delay tolerant mobility support security etc. RAT descriptions can include descriptions for various RATs including EUTRA UTRA and GERAN. RAT descriptions can also include identifications measurements e.g. reference signal received power RSRP reference signal received

Example 1 is a user equipment UE configured to determine that the UE has mobile broadband MBB network requirements that are greater than a service threshold. The service threshold is based at least in part on service provided by an anchor base station communicating with the UE over a MBB system. The UE is further configured to determine whether a small area wireless access node service area is within a geographical area capable of servicing the UE. The small area wireless access node service area is at least partially within the service area of an anchor node providing service to the UE. The UE is also configured to transmit a request to the anchor node requesting the service from the small area wireless access node. The UE is further configured to receive from the anchor node response information comprising a location of the small area wireless access node. The UE is also configured to process the response information to determine whether the small area wireless access node can service the UE and connect with the small area wireless access node.

In example 2 the UE of example 1 can be optionally configured such that to connect with the small area wireless access node further comprises switching from MBB to millimeter wave cellular systems.

In example 3 the UE of examples 1 2 can be optionally configured such that the MBB network requirements are long term evolution LTE network requirements.

In example 4 the UE of examples 1 3 can be optionally configured such that to determine whether the small area wireless access node service area is within a geographical area further comprises periodically receiving a list of small area wireless access nodes capable of servicing the UE.

In example 5 the UE of examples 1 3 can be optionally configured such that to determine whether the small area wireless access node service area is within a geographical area further comprises requesting a set of small area wireless access nodes capable of servicing the UE.

In example 6 the UE of examples 1 5 can be optionally configured such that the network requirements include large data transfer ability.

In example 7 the UE of examples 1 6 can be optionally configured such that the network requirements include a quality of service greater than available through the anchor node.

In example 8 the UE of examples 1 7 can be optionally configured such that to connect with the small area wireless access node further comprises using WiFi to communicate with the UE.

Example 9 is a wireless network device comprises a network interface a location determination system and a processor. The network interface is configured to communicate over a wireless network with wireless network infrastructure. The location determination system is configured to provide a device location of the wireless network device. The processor is configured to execute instructions that cause the wireless network device to perform operations. The processor is further configured to determine that a threshold for requesting connection to the small cell has been met. The processor is also configured to receive location information describing locations of a set of small cells from the wireless network infrastructure. The processor is further configured to determine the device location of the wireless network device. The processor is also configured to connect to a small cell from the set of small cells that serves the location of the device.

In example 10 the wireless network device of example 9 can optionally further include an additional network interface to connect with the small cell over an additional channel of communication.

In example 11 the wireless network device of example 10 can be optionally configured such that the supplemental network interface further comprises a millimeter wave interface.

In example 12 the wireless network device of example 10 can be optionally configured such that the network interface further comprises an LTE interface.

In example 13 the wireless network device of example 9 12 can be optionally configured such that the threshold is based at least in part on a demand for data throughput that exceeds a threshold measuring the ability of a current connection to the wireless network infrastructure to deliver the data throughput.

In example 14 the wireless network device of example 9 13 can be optionally configured such that the processor is configured to execute further instructions that cause the wireless network device to transmit a request for connection to a small cell comprising assistance data the assistance data comprising mobility behavior location information or media consumption description.

In example 15 the wireless network device of example 9 14 can be optionally configured such that to connect to the small cell further comprises sending an activation request to the small cell to wake up the small cell.

In example 16 the wireless network device of example 9 15 can optionally further include a screen providing a user interface.

Example 18 is a base station comprises a network interface storage and a processor. The network interface is configured to communicate over a wireless network with a plurality of user equipments UEs . The storage is configured to store location data comprising locations of boosters. The processor is configured to execute instructions that cause the base station to perform operations. The processor is further configured to receive a request to connect to a booster by a UE from the plurality of UEs. The request includes UE mobility information. The processor is also configured to determine the booster available for use by the UE. The processor is further configured to provide booster information to the UE.

In example 19 the base station of example 18 can be optionally configured such that to provide the location data to the UE further comprises broadcasting the location data to the plurality of UEs providing the location data to the UE directly or providing the location data to the UE through open mobile alliance device management OMA DM .

In example 20 the base station of example 18 can optionally further include a supplemental network interface to provide a small cell to the UE.

In example 21 the base station of example 20 can be optionally configured such that the supplemental network interface further comprises a millimeter wave cellular interface.

In example 22 the base station of example 20 can be optionally configured such that the supplemental network interface further comprises a WiFi interface.

In example 23 the base station of examples 18 22 can be optionally configured such that to determine the booster further comprises causing the booster to transition to a powered up state from a low power state.

Example 24 is a wireless network infrastructure comprises a base station a booster and a processor. The base station comprises a first network interface a second network interface and storage. The first network interface is configured to communicate over a wireless network with a plurality of user equipments UEs using a first radio access technology RAT . The second network interface is configured to communicate with a core network. The storage is configured to store location data comprising locations of small cells. The booster comprises a third network interface and a fourth network interface. The third network interface is configured to communicate over a wireless network with a plurality of user equipments UEs using a second RAT. The fourth network interface is configured to communicate with a core network. The processor is configured to receive a request to connect to a booster by a UE from the plurality of UEs. The processor is further configured to determine the booster available for use by the UE. The processor is also configured to provide booster information to the UE.

In example 25 the wireless network infrastructure of example 24 can optionally further include a core network that includes the processor.

In example 26 the wireless network infrastructure of examples 24 25 can optionally further include a relay configured to relay transmissions between the booster and the base station.

In example 27 the wireless network infrastructure of examples 24 26 can be optionally configured such that the base station further comprises a fifth network interface configured to communicate with the fourth network interface of the booster and transmit messages received from the booster to the core network.

In example 28 the wireless network infrastructure of examples 24 27 can be optionally configured such that the booster further comprises a remote antenna and a fronthaul from the remote antenna to the booster.

Example 29 is a method of connecting user equipment UE to wireless network infrastructure that includes determining a threshold for a user equipment UE to connect with a booster has been met. The method includes receiving location information describing locations of a set of boosters from the wireless network infrastructure. The method further includes determining the device location of the UE. The method also includes connecting to a booster from the set of boosters that serves the location of the UE.

In example 30 the method of example 29 can optionally include transmitting a request to the wireless network infrastructure for the location information.

In example 31 the method of examples 29 30 can optionally include transmitting a request to the wireless network infrastructure that includes assistance data.

In example 32 the method of examples 29 31 can optionally include transmitting a request to the wireless network infrastructure to activate the small cell.

Example 33 is a method for user equipment UE mobility that includes determining that a value estimation for a connection to a small cell has been exceeded. The method includes receiving location information describing locations of a set of small cells from the wireless network infrastructure. The method further includes determining the device location of the wireless network device. The method also includes connecting to the small cell that serves the location of the device.

In example 34 the method of example 33 can optionally include one or more operations. The method can optionally include connecting to the small cell further comprises connecting over a millimeter wave interface. The method can also optionally include determining the value estimation for the small cell further comprises determining that a demand for data throughput that exceeds a threshold measuring the ability of a current connection to the wireless network infrastructure to deliver the data throughput. The method can further optionally include connecting to the small cell further comprises sending an activation request to the small cell to wake up the small cell.

In example 35 the method of example 33 34 can optionally include transmitting a request for connection to the small cell comprising assistance data wherein the assistance data comprises one or more of mobility behavior location information and or media consumption description.

In example 35 the method of example 33 35 can optionally include sending a message through the small cell to a core network wherein the message is transmitted through one or more of a wireless link with an anchor tower a wired link with the anchor tower and or a relay between the anchor tower and the small cell.

Example 38 is machine readable storage including machine readable instructions when executed to implement a method or realize an apparatus as claimed in any of claims .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements can be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station can also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification can be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within components and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials can be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention can be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials frequencies sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes can be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

