---

title: Mock attack cybersecurity training system and methods
abstract: A training system senses a user action that may expose the user to a threat, such as a cybersecurity threat. The user action may be in response to a mock attack delivered via a messaging service, a wireless communication service, a fake malware application or another device, service, system or mechanism. The system selects a training action from a collection of available training actions and causes the training action to be delivered to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558677&OS=09558677&RS=09558677
owner: WOMBAT SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09558677
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 793 011 filed Mar. 15 2013 titled Context Aware Training Systems Apparatuses and Methods.

This patent application also claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 442 587 filed Apr. 9 2012 entitled Context Aware Training Systems Apparatuses and Methods which in turn claims priority to i U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 473 384 filed Apr. 8 2011 and entitled Behavior Sensitive Training System and ii U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 473 366 filed Apr. 8 2011 and entitled System and Method for Teaching the Recognition of Fraudulent Messages by Identifying Traps Within the Message.

This patent application also claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 832 070 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled Context Aware Training Systems Apparatuses and Methods which in turn claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 442 587 and the provisional applications described above.

This document pertains generally to context aware cybersecurity training and particularly to training systems apparatuses and methods that select and provide cybersecurity training to a user based on action of a user.

Computer based training systems and other forms of electronically supported learning and teaching generically referred to as e Learning systems have traditionally relied on one size fits all training material where the same collection of modules has to be taken by everyone. In addition cybersecurity training has traditionally been delivered to users in the context of face to face lectures training manuals and software training modules including interactive training modules. The benefits of these traditional cybersecurity training methods have often proven to be limited. This is in great part because this training is often abstract and delivered out of context.

This document describes methods and systems that address at least some of the issues described above or additional issues.

In an embodiment a system that includes one or more processors provides cybersecurity training to one or more electronic device users. The system does this by accessing identifying information relating to an electronic device. This may include information relating to the actual device such as a device ID. In addition or alternatively it may include information relating to a software application or firmware that is installed or configured to operate on the device. The system may select a mock attack situation that corresponds to the electronic device cause the mock attack situation to be delivered to a user of the electronic device via the electronic device in the user s regular context of use of the electronic device sense an action of the user in a response to the mock attack situation use the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention determine that the user should receive a training intervention and in response select a training intervention from a set of at least one training intervention and delivering the selected training intervention to the user.

In various embodiments causing the mock attack situation to be delivered to the user via the device in the user s regular context of use of the device may include luring the user to use the device to interact with any of the following mock attacks a mock rogue wireless service a mock malicious message a mock malicious memory device a mock malicious short range tag a mock malicious barcode a mock social networking attack a piece of mock malware a mock malicious URL or a mock rogue compromised or malfunctioning device or service. For example if the mock attack situation comprises a wireless service such as a wireless local area network service a wireless personal area network service or a near field communication service the system may detect a request to connect the device to the wireless service. If the mock attack situation comprises a network service or device that broadcasts an availability message the system may detect a request to connect the electronic device to the network service or device. If the mock attack situation comprises an attack that lures users to install fake malware the system may detect a request to install the fake malware on the device.

Optionally the sensed action may include receipt of identifying information in response to the mock attack situation. If so then when using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention the system may use the received identifying information in the response to determine whether the response originates from a registered user and only deliver the selected training intervention if the response originates from the registered user. As another option the sensed action may include receipt of identifying information in response to the mock attack situation. If so then when using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention the system may use the received identifying information in the response to determine whether the response originates from a device that is a known device and only deliver the selected training intervention if the response originates from a device that is a known device. In some embodiments the system may determine both i whether the response originates from a user who is a registered user and ii whether the response originates from a device that is an approved device. If so the system may deliver the selected training intervention if the response originates from a registered user who is not using an approved device.

In some embodiments determining whether the user should receive a training intervention may include determining whether the user has responded to at least a threshold number of mock attack situations or determining whether the user has performed a triggering action in response to the mock attack situation.

In some embodiments selecting the training intervention may include using the sensed action to identify a threat scenario for which the user is at risk identifying a collection of available training interventions that are relevant to the threat scenario and selecting from the collection based on the identified threat scenario the training intervention to be delivered to the user.

In an alternate embodiment a computer implemented method of providing cybersecurity training to a user includes selecting a mock attack situation other than a mock phishing email for a user. This embodiment also includes obtaining contact information necessary to deploy the mock attack situation to the user using the contact information to cause the mock attack situation to be deployed to the user in the user s regular context of use of a service or device sensing an action of the user in a response to the mock attack situation using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention determining that the user should receive a training intervention and in response to the determination selecting a training intervention and delivering the selected training intervention to the user.

Optionally sensing the action of the user may include receiving identifying information. Using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention may then include using the received identifying information to determine whether the response originates from a user who is a registered user and only delivering the selected training intervention if the response originates from a registered user. In addition or alternatively the method may include using the received identifying information to determine whether the response originates from a device that is a known device and only delivering the selected training intervention if the response originates from a device that is a known device. In some embodiments the method may include determining both i whether the response originates from a user who is a registered user and ii whether the response originates from a device that is an approved device. If so the method may include delivering the selected training intervention if the response originates from a registered user who is not using an approved device.

In some embodiments determining whether the user should receive a training intervention may include determining whether the user has responded to at least a threshold number of mock attack situations or determining whether the user has performed a triggering action in response to the mock attack situation.

If the mock attack situation comprises a message delivered via a messaging service the method may include determining whether it received a user reply to the message and whether the reply includes personally identifiable information. If the mock attack situation comprises a mock social engineering call the method may include detecting whether the user has provided sensitive information in response to the mock social engineering call or whether the user has initiated some other activity placing the user or an organization associated with the user at risk. If the mock attack situation comprises delivering a mock malicious memory device to the user the method may include detecting that the user has taken one or more of the following actions connected the memory device to an electronic device opened a file stored on the memory device or provided the memory device to another person.

Optionally selecting the training intervention may include using the sensed action to identify a threat scenario for which the user is at risk identifying a collection of available training interventions relevant to the threat scenario and selecting from the collection based on the identified threat scenario the training intervention to be delivered to the user.

In an alternate embodiment a system provides cybersecurity training to a user by selecting a mock attack situation for a user wherein the mock attack situation requires the user to be within a vicinity of a location to receive the mock attack situation identifying an area within which the user is likely to be causing the mock attack situation to be deployed in the area after the user comes within the vicinity of the area sensing an action of the user in response to the mock attack situation based on the action determining whether the user should receive a training intervention if so selecting a relevant training intervention from a set of one or more training interventions and delivering the selected training intervention to the user.

Optionally the system of this embodiment may use the sensed action to identify a threat scenario for which the user is at risk use the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention determine that the user should receive a training intervention and when selecting of the training intervention doing so in response to the determining that the user should receive a training intervention.

Optionally if the sensed action includes the receipt of identifying information in response to the mock attack situation using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention may include using the received identifying information in the response to determine whether the response originates from the user and only delivering the selected training intervention if the response originates from the user.

Optionally if the sensed action includes the receipt of identifying information in response to the mock attack situation using the sensed action to determine whether the user should receive a training intervention may include using the received identifying information in the response to determine whether the response originates from a device that is a known client and only delivering the selected training intervention if the response originates from a device that is a known client.

Examples of mock attack situations include a wireless service that includes a Wi Fi network in which case the sensed action may include a request to connect the device to the Wi Fi network. As another example the mock attack situation may include a near field communication device that broadcasts an availability message in which case the sensed action may include a request to connect the device to the near field communication device. As another example the mock attack situation may include a barcode that when scanned will connect a device to a mock malicious URL. In this case the sensed action may include indicia that the user has used a device to scan the barcode and requested to connect the device to the mock malicious URL.

Other embodiments which may include one or more parts of the systems or methods described above are also contemplated and may thus have a broader or different scope. Thus the embodiments in this Summary are mere examples and are not intended to limit or define the scope of the invention or claims.

Accordingly the methods and systems described in this document provide solutions to various shortcomings of prior training systems and methods. Other details features and advantages will become further apparent in the following detailed description.

This document describes various embodiments involving cybersecurity training methods and systems based on mock attacks other than embodiments relying solely on mock email phishing attacks. It will be appreciated that these embodiments and implementations are illustrative and various aspects of the invention may have applicability beyond the specifically described contexts. Furthermore it is to be understood that these embodiments and implementations are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. The terminology used in the following description is for the purpose of illustrating the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope in the present disclosure which will be limited only by the appended claims.

Throughout the specification reference to one embodiment an embodiment or some embodiments means that a particular described feature structure or characteristic is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment or in some embodiments in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the embodiments. References to or are furthermore intended as inclusive so or may indicate one or another of the ored terms or more than one ored term.

For the purposes of this document the terms electronic device and computing device interchangeably refer to a device or system of one or more devices that includes at least one processor and non transitory computer readable memory. The memory may contain programming instructions that when executed by the processor cause the device to perform one or more operations according to the programming instructions. Examples of computing devices include personal computers gaming systems televisions wearable electronic devices such as smart watches implantable electronic devices and portable electronic devices such as smartphones personal digital assistants cameras tablet computers laptop computers global positioning service GPS navigation devices media players and the like. Where appropriate for the context the term electronic device also may refer to a software application configured to operate on an electronic device or firmware that is installed in an electronic device.

This document describes computer based training systems that may enable an administrator to trigger or may allow the system to sense use activity or behavior information in combination with user needs models namely models of how critical it is for users engaging in these particular activities and behaviors to be knowledgeable of and proficient in different topics or training areas. The systems and methods may selectively prioritize those areas where the learner needs to be trained and selectively identify conditions where delivery of the training is likely to be most effective. That level of customization may be particularly valuable in domains where training content is vast or opportunities for training are limited e.g. limited time and where the training required by individual users varies based on their activities and behaviors. Identifying training needs based on static information e.g. based solely on the department an employee works for or his her level of education is often insufficient in these domains. Sensing activities behaviors or other contextual attributes can help better target training and mitigate consequences associated with undesirable behaviors.

In some embodiments the methods and systems described below may sense user behavior and activity such as a user response to mock attacks to determine user susceptibility to different types of cybersecurity threats and selectively identify training interventions that will be presented to individual users. The ability to tailor the cybersecurity training interventions presented to different users based on their susceptibility to different threats makes it possible to make better use of users limited attention span when it comes to receiving cybersecurity training. This can be especially valuable as the number and types of threats to users can potentially be exposed to is large and continues to grow.

Various embodiments of context aware training are directed to apparatuses systems and methods performing context aware training. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art however that a computer system may be assembled from any combination of devices with embedded processing capability for example computer smart phone tablet or other devices including mobile or pervasive computing devices or appliances electromechanical devices and the like. The computer system can be configured to identify training interventions or training actions relevant to individual users and push those training interventions to users both pro actively in anticipation of future needs or reactively in response to a need as it arises .

A training intervention can take many different forms such as an interactive software training module a training video training games or other multimedia training content delivered to the content through one or more output devices. It may be delivered in one or more installments including installments that may only be delivered subject to the sensing of an action or lack thereof by a user e.g. a mock attack intended to sense a user s susceptibility to a particular threat scenario which may be conditionally followed by a just in time training message and or the assignment of a training module to a user . Training interventions may be provided as soon as a particular event is sensed e.g. a just in time training intervention or may be provided for later delivery to a user such as the assignment of a software training module or a training activity that has to be completed by a certain date. A training intervention may include multiple iterations such as taking an interactive training module until one reaches a certain level of proficiency.

A just in time training intervention should not be confused with a warning of an event that is about to happen. In contrast to a warning which focuses on reducing risk associated with a situation that is at hand or about to occur e.g. a user about to initiate a dangerous action a training intervention is intended to also impart the user with some tips best practices principles or other knowledge likely to help the user from repeating the same mistake or engage in the same risky behavior in the future. Simply telling the user that he is about to be put at risk or telling him to not do something in a one off manner does not equate to a training intervention.

Numerous specific details are set forth in the specification and illustrated in the accompanying drawings to provide an understanding of the overall structure function manufacture and use of embodiments of context aware training. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the invention may be practiced without the specific details provided in the described embodiments. In other instances well known operations components and elements have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described in the specification. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the embodiments described and illustrated herein are non limiting examples and thus it can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments the scope of which is defined by the appended claims.

The one or more sensors monitor one or more aspects of a user s behavior or activities user actions . Those user actions may include sensing the behavior of people other than the user regardless of whether they are a user of the system the behavior of other entities e.g. organisms organization the environment with which a given user interacts e.g. sensing how they respond to actions by the user and other relevant contextual attributes. Those sensors as well as other elements of the training system may be operated by one or more entities and may be deployed across a wide range of geographies including different jurisdictional boundaries. The sensors may be part of the system or the system may rely on external sensors and simply analyze data that it directly or indirectly received from the sensors.

The system may receive user behavior or activity data and record that data over time in one or more data storage devices . For example the data may include relevant statistics relating to the user s behavior or activity over a period of time as received from the sensors. Those relevant statistics may include for example frequency of certain activities frequency of certain behaviors deviations from relevant baselines and relevant trends.

The system may collect as data received from the sensors user behavior or activity data . The data may further be used in combination with historical user training data which may be stored in one or more data storage devices and may include data related to the training one or more users have taken in the past. Historical user training data may include information including when and how well one or more users performed in prior training or assessments. For example static user profiles which may include a role of one or more individual user in the organization their education levels or demographic information for example and may be stored in one or more data storage devices may be used in combination with the historic user training data.

The system may store one or more user training needs models in one or more data storage devices. A training needs model can include data and or a rule set that the system may apply to correlate one or more behaviors or activities with training that is relevant to those behaviors or activities. User training needs models may be qualitative or quantitative in nature and may include a mixture of both qualitative and quantitative aspects. Training needs models may vary in complexity ranging from simple if then rules for example that map patterns of sensed data with training content typically required by people whose activity or behavior matches a given pattern e.g. if the user falls for a mock malicious barcode attack select a training intervention that immediately teaches the user how to protect himself against malicious barcode attacks or if the user connects a mock malicious USB memory stick to his laptop and opens a mock malicious file stored on the USB then immediately pop up a just in time training intervention and enroll the user for later more in depth training on malicious memory devices to more complex quantitative models. An example of a more complex model may take into account considerations such as the probability that a user requires some type of training the time it takes to take the training the relative effectiveness of available training modules in addressing a given training need the type of training a given user has taken in the past the amount of time available to train the user and more. The system may include training needs models that are customized or unique to a user or group of users or the system may include standard training needs models that it may apply to any user. An example of this is described below in the context of .

The system may implement a policy manager which may include computer readable instructions to analyze user behavior data subject to a relevant set of rules or other appropriate logic. The policy manager may use additional data such as a historical user training data for the user other similar users or both or b static profile data such as the role of the user and the education level of the user. Based on its analysis the policy manager may select one or more training interventions from an extensible collection of training intervention modules thereby implementing context aware training functionality or it may initiate activities aimed at collecting additional data about one or more users such as estimating their training needs in different areas through the creation of mock situations the assignment of quizzes or some other available option. The policy manager may perform its analysis in light of one or more relevant training needs models . The system may then generate one or more instructions commands or other outputs that cause selected training interventions to be pushed or provided to the user . This can range from i accessing one or more training interventions optionally customizing them and eventually sending them to one or more output devices for delivery or presentation to the user to ii assigning a training module to a user in the system or even iii activating a semi automated process that involves the delivery of a training message to a user e.g. scheduling someone for a face to face training meeting on a particular topic .

Training content data may be organized in the form of an extensible collection of training interventions including any relevant training metadata . Alternatively it may consist of a fixed set of training interventions possibly even just one type of training intervention. A collection of training interventions may range from very short training interventions intended to be delivered in a just in time fashion to longer more extensive training modules that users may be encouraged or required to take within a predetermined period of time. Training interventions along with relevant training meta data may be stored in one or more data storage devices. Relevant training meta data for a training intervention may include information about the training needs the training intervention is designed to address the format in which the training intervention can be delivered the amount of time the training intervention typically requires estimated effectiveness of the training intervention possibly across all users or possibly for different subsets of users based on considerations such as level of education age gender prior training to which the users have been exposed and other relevant considerations. The training meta data may include annotations and those annotations may be used by a policy manager to select training content that is most appropriate for one or more users and when to provide that training content to the user or user group. Some training interventions may also be customizable based on relevant contextual information such as the activities the user is engaged in time available to train the user available devices to deliver the content preferred user language demographic information and other contextual information. In the cybersecurity training domain where a user s time is limited and there is an increasingly vast amount of cybersecurity best practices and strategies to which the user should ideally be exposed the policy manager may be able to use its input to identify and possibly prioritize one or more training interventions in a way that will minimize or at least help reduce the chances users fall prey to those threats to which they are most susceptible based on their activities behavior prior training history and or other relevant contextual attributes.

The policy manager may operate autonomously or according to a mixed initiative mode. In a mixed initiative mode a system administrator e.g. a security analyst a member of human resources in charge of training or some other role in an organization uses an administrator client to interact with the policy manager. In the mixed initiative mode the system administrator may review results of the analysis conducted by the policy manager and select one or more training interventions to address those training needs for which one or more users are at a particularly high risk. In that embodiment the system administrator could launch a training campaign based on a special purpose cartoon to train all those employees who are scheduled to take their corporate laptops out of the country in the next two weeks because based on the system s training needs model those employees have been identified as being at a particularly high risk for laptop related threat scenarios by the analysis conducted by the policy manager .

The collection of training interventions can change over time. For example the system may include a user interface that enables an administrator to add delete or modify some or all the training interventions. The system may receive training interventions from different sources including for example corporate training developed in house external training interventions provided by vendors training interventions obtained via personal subscriptions and training interventions offered by service providers such as a doctor a dietician or a health club. In addition to the possibility that training interventions may vary over time available sensors and other sources of contextual information may also vary over time. For example a user may acquire a new mobile phone with additional sensors a user may download a Mobile Device Management MDM client on his mobile phone new data about the user may be collected by a new source and a new source of data may become able to interface with the context aware training system.

Sensed data about user behavior and activities can include activities conducted in cyber space activities in the physical world or a combination thereof. Sensed data may include any activity or behavior that can be tracked observed or recorded in some manner for example driving behavior physical mental and social health related activities and habits professional activities social activities etc. Sensed data may also include data relating to the behavior of people not necessarily users of the system with whom the user interacts in some manner. For example sensed data may include responses received by the user from people organisms objects surrounding elements or other entities with whom the user interacts whether directly or indirectly. Activities sensed may include general usage activities such as using a laptop phone tablet or other mobile electronic device having wireless data communication activity or using a particular mobile electronic device such as a company issued device. In addition activities sensed may include more specific applications using the device listed above such as downloading software or installing a memory device containing software connecting to a wireless network connecting to a short range or near field communication enabled device replying to an SMS message placing or receiving a phone call using certain technology or other activities.

Sensed data may also be provided by a system administrator via an administrator client or retrieved from a data set containing profile and or sensed activity or behavior data about the user. An administrator client may be software or hardware that is running software that supports a user interface by which an administrator may add or modify data or parameters relevant to the system e.g. training needs models parameters controlling the policy manager s logic or may be able to review edit and customize other parts of the system such as training interventions including mock attacks selected or recommended by the system. Sensed data may also include historical user training data or data obtained from other sources of information such as a corporate system with information about the scheduled deployment of smart phones in the enterprise. The latter sensed data when processed by the policy manager based on training needs models can help anticipate the need to train employees in the area of smart phone security by different dates and can result in the assignment of smart phone security training interventions to different employees on different dates.

One or more sensors can include one or more devices artifacts or other sources of information. For example sensors can include hardware software electromechanical devices bio sensory devices and sources of information provided by third parties. Sensors can be used to sense one or more aspects of a user s activities or behavior whether in the context of routine activities or in response to artificially created situations. The sensors may detect various actions of a user in response to a mock attack situation such as the security of the user s communication network connection whether the user is downloading an attachment or installing an application the user s browsing history and other data.

Examples of how an administrative user may select or the system may select and implement a mock situation will be described below.

Examples of behavior or activity sensors in the cybersecurity training domain include sensors that detect attachments in emails sent or received by a user sensors to determine whether one or more users access different services over secure connections sensors to identify the number type and or identity of applications installed on a user s mobile phone sensors to track the physical locations a user visits sensors to keep track of the URLs a user visits. Some sensors can also include for instance sensors to detect USB key usage record browsing history identify Bluetooth headset use sensors that detect the number or types of emails received sensors that inspect the content of emails and sensors that track the physical location of users. Sensors can also include Mobile Device Management MDM clients and MDM infrastructure or Data Leakage Prevention DLP functionality as well as data obtained from an MDM system DLP system firewall system email filtering system browsers network proxies or other types infrastructure components that can be used to monitor user activities and behaviors as well as other relevant contextual attributes e.g. types of websites a user visits emails they receive phone numbers they call or receive calls from .

The sensors can be embedded in or interface with smart phones laptop computers desktops tablets e readers body parts or any other devices appliances or elements of the user s local or global environment e.g. smart home smart car smart office or other mobile or pervasive computing device or appliance including medical devices surveillance cameras and other environmental sensors . A sensor may include a data storage device or processor for example in microprocessor form and can obtain data provided by the user by people other than the user by organizations or by entities including colleagues friends family members strangers doctors. A sensor may alternately or in addition obtain data provided by systems including data aggregated and synthesized from multiple sources including aerial sensors space based sensors implanted devices and medical devices . For example a sensor may sense calendar information status updates on social networks and credit card transactions and can sense information or actions obtained through video surveillance. Some sensors may also sense a combination of data. Some sensors may also sense that the user has fallen for a mock attack including any of the mock attacks identified above.

The system may receive and analyze data from any or all of such sensors and use the data to determine whether the user is at risk of a threat scenario. Examples of how the system may receive and analyze sensor data will be described in more detail below. As an example of how the system may sense data if the user is provided a memory device on which an executable fake malware file is stored when the user uses the device by inserting it into a computing device s port or attempts to open the file the fake malware may execute or cause the device to execute a command to send a message to the training system. The message may include data such as time and or date of execution an identification code for the computing device to which the memory is connected and or network identification data for a communication network to which the computing device is connected. As another example if the message is a fake messaging service message the message may lure the user into taking an action by including a phone number for the user to call or it may contain a hyperlink to or address for a website or it may contain an attachment such as an executable file. The system may sense whether or not the user took an unsafe action by monitoring for a communication from the website operator the phone number operator or the user device itself indicating that the user accessed the website called the phone number or downloaded and executed the attachment.

User behavior data can be captured and recorded in one or more locations and may include relevant statistics such as frequency associated with different types of events or situations trends and comparisons against relevant baselines. Such user behavior data may help create a unique profile for each individual user that captures this user s activities and behaviors at a particular point in time or over different periods of time.

Historical user training data may inform the selection of relevant training for a user by capturing the training history of that user. This can include the selection of relevant mock attacks as well as the selection of relevant training interventions in response to data collected in the context of mock attacks. Historical user training data may include information such as the training modules to which that user has already been exposed how often and when that user was exposed to training modules how well the user responded when taking the training modules and other indicators of the user s proficiency in the area or areas in which the user has been trained. User proficiency can include for example recorded instances where the user failed to conform to expected best practices or apply relevant knowledge covered by the training system.

For example if a mock attack involved luring the user with a USB memory device that contained fake malware the system may include in the historical training user data the information on whether or not the user used that memory device within a period of time. Similarly if the training intervention involved a fake malicious SMS message the system may include in the historical user training data an indicator of whether or not the user acted upon the message such as by calling a mock malicious phone number provided with the SMS message or clicking on a mock malicious hyperlink in the SMS message. The operator of the website to which the user links or the phone number that the user calls may serve as a sensor who will then provide information about the user such as the user s phone number or electronic device identifier to the training system for inclusion in the historical user training data and or analysis by a policy manager.

Cybersecurity training and awareness for everyday users is a domain that stands to benefit significantly from context aware training and in particular context aware training based on mock attacks. The complexity of today s computers including cell phones tablets and other computer powered or Internet enabled devices and networking systems make them vulnerable to an ever wider range of attacks. Human users who adopt best practices and strategies e.g. not falling for Internet enabled social engineering attacks regularly checking and installing software patches adopting safe browsing practices safe USB memory practices safe security settings on their smartphones etc. can often help reduce their exposure to many of those threats. Training everyday users to adopt improved strategies that address potential threats can be a daunting task. Accordingly an effective way to mitigate risks is to prioritize training for individual users based on the threat scenarios to which they are most likely to be exposed by taking into account information about user activities or behaviors and or other relevant contextual attributes such as their prior training history and level of expertise as well as their responses to mock attacks representative of various threat scenarios to which they may be exposed.

In general different training interventions may utilize different delivery devices such as some just with output capability others with different combinations of output and input functionality.

The system may include a storage system which may comprise a plurality of storage devices including cloud based devices possibly located across a plurality of locations. The storage system may serve as repository for static user data recorded data collected from one or more sensors historical user training data and training needs models . The storage system may also store part or all of the training content and training meta data available to the context aware training system.

The computers and other devices and artifacts may be computers computer systems or other electronic devices as described above and may each include at least one processor and possibly one or more other components of a computer or network of computers. For example the analysis host computer may be a single server or could be a distributed computing platform or a cloud based system running software such as Microsoft Windows Linux or UNIX. The client configuration participant computers which may include one or more laptops tablets smart phones one or more administrator client devices or output devices may themselves comprise a collection of participant computers capable of network connectivity. Those devices may support any number of input and output functions. Those input and output functions may be embedded in the devices themselves or may be provided by satellite hardware such as a keyboard mouse display or speaker. Devices may be connected to the network either through a physical hardwire connection or through wireless technology such as 802.11 Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC or GSM CDMA LTE cellular networks or through other communication methods or systems. The operating system of each participant computer could include Microsoft Windows Linux UNIX Mac OSX Android iOS PALM or another operating system. When relevant the computing devices may run browser software such as for example Mozilla IE Safari Chrome or another browser software or browsing methodology. The type and configuration of the participant computing devices e.g. and can be otherwise configured as desired.

The communication networks could be any type of data or computer communication network or any other technology enabling computers and possibly other devices or appliances to communicate with one another.

One embodiment of a method of context aware training that may be performed for example by one or more of the components illustrated in is illustrated in . Three processes are illustrated in that embodiment a mock attack selection and delivery process a policy management process and a response process . The system may run these processes sequentially or concurrently. Some of the steps illustrated in these processes are optional or may need to be sequenced differently for different mock attack situations. The mock attack selection and delivery process may obtain information about a user and use that information to select deliver and sense a user s response to a mock attack situation. The policy management process may implement programming logic that determines whether to initiate and which also initiates training interventions. The response process includes steps in which the system detects the user s interaction with the training intervention. Note that not all user activity and behavior sensing taking place in a context aware training system is tied to mock attack situations. Sensed activity and behavior may generally come from a number of sensors and may encompass a broad range of activities and behaviors that are relevant to the policy manager s logic and the training needs models it relies on. It does not have to be limited to responses or lack thereof to mock attack situations. just does not illustrate these additional possible sensing activities.

Cybersecurity training via mock attacks involves sensing user susceptibility to one or more threat scenarios by presenting a user with a mock attack situation in his or her actual context of use of a software program a device a service or some other computer mediated process. The system senses the user s response to the mock attack situation or lack thereof in an actual everyday context of use software program a device a service or some other computer mediated process . In this document the phrases actual content of use and regular context of use are used interchangeably to refer to typical and ordinary conditions under which a user interacts with hardware software or a service as part of his or her regular activities. This can range from browsing the web reading email responding to phone calls accepting USBs at professional tradeshows interacting with online services accessing corporate systems pairing one s cellphone with another device unlocking doors with a security token authenticating with any number of software or hardware artifacts interacting with proximity tokens granting permissions to other users just carrying an electronic device with oneself as one goes about other activities etc. as they are carried out by users as they go about their actual activities. In an actual context of use when the user is presented with a mock attack situation the user does not a priori know that the situation is a mock attack created to evaluate his or her readiness or susceptibility to different threat scenarios. This is in contrast to recording responses or lack thereof in the context of an interactive training module a simulator a drill a quiz or some other hypothetical or simulated situation in which the user actually knows that he or she is being evaluated.

Presenting a mock attack situation in an actual context of use can be particularly useful for improving user security readiness and or reducing user susceptibility to different threat scenarios. This is because for most users security is not a primary task or a primary objective. For instance at a given point in time a sales representative s primary objective might be to make his quarterly quota a software engineer s primary objective might be to meet a release date and an executive assistant s primary objective might be to book a trip for his or her boss. Evaluating users in simulated situations where the user knows he is being evaluated changes this situation and makes security that user s primary objective at that particular point in time thereby significant distorting the user s response. In addition knowing that one failed a quiz or some other simulated exercise that was known not to be real is not the same as knowing that one failed to respond to a mock situation in one s actual context of use. The latter can humble users and get them to acknowledge that they need training. The end result is a teachable moment where a user is more likely to pay attention and retain knowledge and tips offered to avoid falling for similar attacks in the future.

In some embodiments the mock attack selection and delivery process may include accessing identifying information which may include the selection of users to be targeted by the mock attack. This information may be used to customize or deliver a mock attack situation. It may also be used to identify users who are being sensed in the context of a mock attack situation such as identifying an action or lack thereof by a user identifying a device associated with a given user e.g. identifying a user carrying a particular Bluetooth discoverable device or determining whether a sensed device belongs to a user for whom prior consent e.g. consent to record sensed activity and behavior and deliver training interventions has been obtained. The identifying information may include for example 

As used in this discussion a device may be an electronic device that the user uses in an ordinary activity or carries with him or her as part of ordinary activities. The term device can also include the operating system software applications and other software artifacts running on the device. Examples include smartphones tablets and laptop computers as well as also other devices such as a car an electronic garage door opener a security token an activity tracking bracelet an insulin pump a prosthetic arm and a smart wheelchair. A service is a service that the user may access via a device. Examples include a technology mediated service such as a messaging service or a VoIP phone service for which the user has an account and an account ID or it may also include any other service that could expose users to a threat scenario e.g. a social engineering attack or shoulder surfing attack . The system could be involved in the delivery of a mock attack intended to measure user susceptibility and or could be used to deliver follow up training interventions.

Identification information about a device or service may also include or may make it possible to retrieve information that can be used to identify and customize available mock attacks e.g. determining that a particular type of mock attack is only available for a certain type of device and a target user s device is not covered or customizing elements of a mock attack situation to a particular user such as the particular features of that user s smartphone . In other words in some embodiments the identifying information about the device or service may also be used to access additional information about the characteristics of the device or particular characteristics of the services clients operating system or other software artifacts running on that device e.g. model screen size available functionality operating system type .

The mock attack selection and delivery process includes selecting a mock attack situation . illustrates a process where the selection of the mock attack situation may be based on the type of device service or location information available for a user or a group of users as determined based on the information that the system accesses given that some mock attack situations may not be practical due to lack of the necessary information. Alternatively the user action process may start with the selection of a mock attack situation to the extent that multiple mock attack situations are available and proceed with the customization of that mock attack situation by accessing relevant information about target users in which case step may follow step . Finally in configurations where the system only supports a single type of mock attack other than a mock phishing email attack the user action process may simply amount to selecting those users to be targeted in a given instance of the one available mock attack.

The selection of the mock attack situation which may include the selection of target users may be done from a set of one or more available mock attack situations and it may be based on any suitable criteria to identify a relevant mock attack situation. This selection will typically be carried out by a policy manager possibly based on one or more training needs models either in an automated fashion or manually via an administrator client or through a semi automated process where an administrator has the ability to review and manipulate some aspects of the selection process. The selection process may associate different types of mock attack situations with different types of devices or services with one or more elements of a user s context e.g. role within the enterprise prior training history country where the user works country where the user is scheduled to travel sensed data about the user e.g. user browsing who has downloaded a mobile banking application user who connects his laptop to Wi Fi networks outside the office user who connects USB memory devices to his laptop sequencing considerations such as following a first mock attack with a second attack of the same type or if a different type as well as any other relevant data available to the system. The system may use any combination of this data to select a mock attack situation relevant to the device service or location of one or more users. As indicated above in some embodiments the system may permit an administrator to control one or more elements of the process involved in the selection of the mock attack situation as well as possibly customize some elements of the selected mock attack situation. In other embodiments the customization process may be automated in full or in part based on logic contained within scripts or programs used in the delivery of the mock attack situation or within logic embedded in the policy manager. Examples of this will be discussed below.

Once selected the mock attack situation is delivered to the user in the user s regular context of use . The system may do this by generating a command instruction document or other communication to deploy a service system or other necessary artifacts by directly or indirectly deploying the attack such as by sending an SMS message placing a VoIP call arranging for a USB to be delivered in the mail to the user deploying a rogue Wi Fi access point any combination of the above or any other relevant means.

The system may detect an interaction event comprising action of the user or lack thereof in response to the mock attack . By extension the sensed user response should also be understood to include sensing of the configuration of a user s software or hardware artifacts e.g. sensing that a user s smartphone includes Bluetooth settings that make the device discoverable or sensing attributes of activities in which the user engages that expose him or her to particular threat scenarios e.g. a user discussing sensitive matters on a smartphone in a public space a user entering password information where he or she is at particularly high risk of a shoulder surfing attack . A sensor may directly detect the interaction event or the system may receive data that is collected by a sensor. The data may correspond to user activities or behaviors or more generally other contextual attributes relevant to the selection of appropriate training interventions in response to a given mock attack or at a later stage. Such contextual attributes may include any relevant sensory data as well as information obtained from other relevant sources of information such as browser history credit card records surveillance cameras electronic doors employment records information collected about a person with which the user has interacted and social networking information. They can also include time data duration data and any other relevant information about the user s interaction with a mock attack situation e.g. sensitive information provided by the user voice recording of the user s interaction . The interaction signature can be produced in various ways including using cryptographic hashes of one or more attributes of an interaction event. In some embodiments sources of sensory data may forward sensed information to one or more other participant computers. In one instance a software or executable program will run on a participant computer or device and locally process sensed data to detect one or more relevant interaction events prior to forwarding the detected information e.g. in the form of interaction signatures to a storage system. The executable program may include logic to locally deliver just in time training interventions in response to particular interaction events. In some embodiments user data can be forwarded directly to the analysis host computer or computers responsible for hosting the policy manager. The storage system may be responsible among other things for storing sensed user data. The system may detect an action of the user by filtering sensed data aggregation of sensed data pre processing of the sensed data analysis of the sensed data and or receipt of one or more event interaction signatures.

Continuing references to the policy management process may include identifying the user who initiated the response . This may be done by any suitable means such as by receiving an event interaction signature that includes identifying information. An event interaction signature may include for example an identification of a device on which an executable mock malware file was installed a phone number that the user was using or other information that identifies the user or the user s computing device e.g. cookie in a browser unique phone ID .

The policy management process may include determining whether the user who responded should receive training . At a high level an early step in this process may be determining whether the user is a known user to whom the mock attack was directed for training purposes. In this document the text may use the terms known user or registered user interchangeably to refer to a user whom the system has some identifying information about and who is an intended recipient of a mock attack. The policy management process or another process may include the step of registering a user as a registered user and if necessary obtain consent from the user to be exposed to mock attacks. This process may be driven by a system administrator or may be automated in part or in full. Alternatively the registration process may be done directly by a user who registers and consents to receive mock attacks or by a proxy for the user such as the user s employer or any owner of the electronic device that the user is using . If the responding user is not a known user to whom the attack was directed or in a group to whom the attack was directed the system may be programmed or configured to not deliver any training to the responding user. The system may also be programmed or configured to discard some or all information obtained from non registered users. On the other hand if the user is a known user who is a candidate for training then the system may initiate a training analysis at and when appropriate identify one or more relevant training interventions from a collection of available training interventions including possibly just in time training interventions.

In some situations the system may use a combination of a user ID and device ID to determine whether to initiate a training intervention. For example if the system receives identifying information relating to the user it may determine whether the response originates from a user who is a registered user. If the system receives identifying information relating to a device it may use that information to determine whether the device is an approved device. A device may be approved if it is registered to an organization such as the user s employer or permitted according to a policy of the organization. If the system determines that a registered user is using a non approved device it may deliver a training intervention to the user such as a training intervention that is geared toward the use of only approved devices.

The policy manager is responsible for determining and possibly prioritizing the training interventions to be delivered to individual users. The policy manager in the embodiment illustrated in initiates a training analysis process . As detailed earlier the policy manager may draw on a number of available sources of information to inform this analysis process. This may include accessing static user data and sensed user data. Sensed user data may include relevant contextual data whether obtained directly from a sensing device or participant computer or whether obtained from parts of a storage system storing sensed user data. Gathering user data may also include retrieving relevant historical training data retrieving relevant training needs models to the extent that they are not stored locally on the analysis host computer and or retrieving training meta data about available training interventions. The Policy Manager applies training needs models to select one or more training interventions and cause the training intervention s to be delivered to the user . In some embodiments the system may permit an administrator to customize some elements of the training interventions before the training intervention is deployed to the user. Optionally the training may be delivered at a later time if the user is a registered user as the system can use the user s contact information to determine an appropriate delivery method or may use the user s account in the training system e.g. assigning a particular training module to the user if the user has such an account. Alternatively or in addition in a just in time scenario one or more training interventions may also be delivered immediately such as via the user s electronic device even if the system does not have identifying information about the user. In some just in time scenarios the training analysis may be conducted locally at the level of the device through which a mock attack is delivered or at the level of a sensor available to sense the user s response to a mock situation. In these configurations the policy manager can be viewed as effectively being implemented in a decentralized fashion with one or more elements of the policy manager running on different devices.

Referring again to embodiments of the policy manager may operate according to one or more modes. Those policy manager modes include scheduled modes routine modes real time modes mixed initiative modes and combinations thereof. In an embodiment of context aware training in which a scheduled mode is utilized the policy manager regularly assesses the overall training needs of users and reprioritizes training interventions to be pushed or delivered to each individual user including but not limited to mock attack training interventions. In some embodiments that process may be fully automated. In other embodiments that process may follow a mixed initiative mode where an administrative user e.g. a system administrator a member of personnel in charge of training an analyst or some other suitable person including possibly the user himself reviews via an administrator client analysis results produced by the policy manager. Based on the analysis results produced by the policy manager the system administrator may further select or prioritize training interventions that will be delivered to one or more users. The system administrator may include a user interface that allows a human user to schedule select define or modify a training intervention as well as to select which user or users should receive the training intervention.

In particular for example the system administrator may launch a training campaign for a group of users whose estimated training need in a given area is above a certain threshold level. In another instance a system administrator could select all those users who failed recent assessments via one or more mock malicious SMS attacks and who also receive more than 5 SMS messages per day to be exposed to a cybersecurity training intervention intended to teach them how to better protect themselves from malicious SMS attacks. Such a training intervention could also include the system administrator or policy manager identifying groups of users who are perceived to be at particularly high risk for a combination of threat scenarios and scheduling training campaigns for those users involving one or more training interventions that specifically address those training needs.

Regular assessment of user training needs may involve running in batch mode where all users are being reviewed in one batch or where different groups of users are processed in different batches possibly according to different schedules. Regular assessment of user training needs may also include pushing short security quizzes and creating mock attack situations aimed at better evaluating the needs of an individual user or a group of users. In a real time mode the policy manager may operate in an event driven manner enabling it to more rapidly detect changes in user behavior or activities and other relevant contextual attributes and to more quickly push training interventions that reflect the risks to which the user is exposed at a desired time. Any of those modes can be implemented in the form of simple rules or more complex logic that can potentially be customized and refined by an organization where for instance the organization is using administrator client software interfaces. Examples of such interfaces will be described beginning with the discussion of below.

The rules or more complex logic can also be defined to allow for mixed initiative iterations with system administrators and users where results from the analysis performed by the policy manager are shown to the user and the user can interact with the policy manager to refine the analysis evaluate different options and possibly finalize the selection prioritization and scheduling of training interventions whether for individual users or groups of users. The rules and or logic of the policy manager may be manually configured by system administrators programmers or other qualified personnel whether working for the organization providing the context aware training system for a customer organization for a contractor working for either of those organizations or by some other individual or group of individuals or derived through statistical analysis or data mining techniques or a combination of both. The administrator client software interface may also allow administrators to maintain and customize training needs models and other relevant parameters such as the threshold levels training needs and other parameters shown in data elements and elements of functionality of the context aware training system. Maintenance and customization may include updating and customizing the collection of available training interventions and updating and customizing individual training interventions including associated meta data e.g. pre requisites compatible delivery platforms required time effectiveness and other meta data . Maintenance and customization may also include accessing reviewing and manipulating other relevant system data including static user data sensed user data historical training data and other meta data. As an example of a customization element an administrator may be able to define a rule that requires that a phone number used to initiate a mock SMS attack is one that has been whitelisted with the cellphone carriers of the users selected for the campaign.

Returning to once relevant training interventions have been identified by the policy manager for one or more users those interventions may be delivered or pushed to the user at . Delivery of training interventions which may include training content as well as training interventions involving mock attacks may be performed in a number of ways including sending relevant training interventions directly to one or more output devices capable of delivering the identified interventions to the user. Delivering training interventions may also be performed by updating a schedule indicating when training interventions should be delivered or otherwise exposed to the user or updating a schedule with a list of training assignments e.g. interactive training modules to be completed by different rates and communicating the updated schedule to the user with the list of training assignments possibly including both required and recommended training assignments. In the former case the system may for example generate a command to send an SMS mock attack message to a user at a specific time and the system may then cause an automated SMS message to be transmitted to the user s mobile device at that specific time. Optionally the system may ensure that it sends the SMS message via an outgoing phone number that has been appropriately whitelisted to ensure delivery to the user s device. As another example the system may provide a human administrator with instructions for making fake malware containing memory devices available to users by a given date. If so it may provide the administrator with an interface by which the administrator may download the fake malware file s onto the memory device s or it may cause an order to be placed for fake malware containing memory devices to be delivered to the user e.g. placing an order with a supplier responsible for pre loading software on memory devices .

Training interventions may include one or more dates by which the user should experience the training intervention proficiency levels that may have to be achieved by the user while engaging with the training content e.g. training quiz training game simulation exercise responses to mock situations and other interactive types of interventions . Training interventions may also be performed through a combination of types of interventions including for example a delivery of a combination of just in time training interventions to the user training assignments to be completed by the user by assigned dates or times and recommendations for further training of the user. Training interventions including training content assignments and recommendations may also be provided to the user by other relevant means.

Training interventions may include the creation of mock attack situations whether through fully automated processes e.g. automated delivery of mock malicious SMS messages to a number of users or manual processes e.g. activating personnel responsible for creating mock situations such as mock impersonation phone calls intended to measure people s susceptibility to social engineering attacks or hybrid processes e.g. mock USB memory attack where a USB includes fake malware intended to train one or more users not to plug USB memory sticks into a computer and further wherein such USB memory devices are manually scattered around an office to lure employees to pick them up . Training interventions may come in many different formats ranging from video and audio content to cartoons alerts e.g. alarms flashing lights training interventions involving personnel e.g. a phone call from the boss of a user a training session with a certified instructor a conversation with the parent of a user or any combination of the above or any other relevant format by which training content may be delivered to a user.

Returning to in the response process as users engage with the training interventions their responses may be recorded in part or in whole . That response data itself may be analyzed in real time by the policy manager or may be stored in an appropriate format possibly for later analysis whether in raw form or in summarized form in a part of the storage system responsible for storing historical training data or in a part of the storage system responsible for storing user behavior data or some other relevant storage or any combination of the above. Response data may include whether the user experiences the training when the user experiences the training how long the user takes to experience the training whether the user s behavior changes after taking the training the level of proficiency exhibited by the user while taking the training e.g. in the case of an interactive training module changes in the behaviors or responses of people the user interacts with after taking the training or any other relevant data.

In some embodiments the response collection process mock attack selection and delivery process and or the training intervention process may be integral. For example the data collection process and training intervention process can together be implemented as an if then rule pursuant to which the system delivers a training intervention if the system detects that a user has fallen for a particular mock attack situation.

In the user action and response collection processes various sensors may be used to gather the data. The sensors may be physical sensors deployed at a location to receive data or software implemented sensor that analyzes a received response to identify certain data included in the response. Examples of sensors include i sensors to detect whether a fake malware program was installed on or whether a storage device was inserted into an electronic device ii configuration sensors that detect one or more hardware or software settings of an electronic device iii a network sensor to detect whether a device is connecting to an unsecured network a roaming network or a near field or short range communication device iv a messaging sensor v a sensor that detects usage of a particular application such as a social networking application and vi others. Some of the sensors listed above may aggregate data they collect from other sensors such as device drivers browsers operating system components and more. User behavior data collected from those sensors may be directly interpreted by a policy manager running on an analysis host computer or can be recorded in a data storage system for later analysis.

In the case of an embodiment of a context aware cybersecurity training system sensed user data is analyzed to identify threat scenarios for which a user in a given context is most susceptible or most at risk.

For example the system may include one or more executable programming instructions that serve as dangerous program sensors. These sensors may be used to inspect the code of software running on devices operated by a user e.g. static code analysis monitor incoming and outgoing data flows as well as other behavioral characteristics associated with software running on devices operated by a user and look for and report any static and or behavioral signatures that are indicative of vulnerability to one or more threat scenarios. Examples could include instructions to identify dangerous mobile apps installed by a user on his smartphone such as by accessing a database of known apps or analyzing certain properties of the app. Dangerous apps may be identified as apps that access sensitive application programming interfaces APIs or sensitive combinations of APIs e.g. whether the app accesses sensitive APIs such as APIs to access the user s contacts list the user s fine grain location the phone s microphone social media functionality etc. apps that access APIs or request permissions they ostensibly do not require apps that are simply unknown to the system or apps that have reviews indicative of potential vulnerabilities. The system can also include a sensor to monitor incoming and or outgoing data flows or processing actions to indicating that the user has caused installed downloaded or acquired software requiring that the user opens up sensitive ports on his computing device a sensor to identify that the user has installed downloaded or acquired software known to have vulnerabilities or that the user has installed downloaded or acquired a software client associated with risky usage scenarios e.g. peer to peer client software . Some of this sensing infrastructure may piggy back on functionality from a Data Leakage Prevention DLP system a Mobile Device Management MDM system a firewall system or any other infrastructure element with relevant sensing functionality that the context aware training system may have access to.

The system may include a dataset of possible threat scenarios for which a context aware cybersecurity training system may determine that a user is at risk. The system may include a dataset of associations between threat scenarios and associated actions that may indicate that a person who performs the actions may be at risk for the threat scenario. These associations may provide a basis for a training needs model See . For example threat scenarios and associated actions may include i downloading malware from a malicious USB memory device ii downloading a malicious app one s smartphone iii connecting to a rogue Wi Fi access point iv falling for a malicious SMS message by providing sensitive information in response to such a message or by performing in response to the SMS message some other action that puts one or one s organization at risk e.g. changing a password as instructed in a malicious SMS message and or iv falling prey to a bluesnarfing attack resulting in the theft of sensitive information.

Optionally the system may receive sensed data relating to the user actions and or behavior and it may apply rules to determine whether the user is at risk for the associated threat scenario. These rules may include analysis of the action or behavior itself such as the content of information posted to a social network to determine whether the action satisfies a threat criterion such as any content that identifies an employee by name a social security number a corporate name device ID or other prohibited content . Sometimes to determine whether a user is at risk or contributes to susceptibility to one or more threat scenarios the policy manager may require that a threshold one or more indicative user actions be sensed or that a particular user action be repeated a threshold number of times possibly over a given period of time. For instance assessment of the risk associated with a user falling for a malicious SMS threat scenario can benefit from monitoring activities that include how often a user replies to mock malicious SMS messages. The logic used by the policy manager to drive this analysis whether automatically or in the context of mixed initiative interaction scenarios may rely on one or more rules and thresholds or some more complex logic. It may be manually entered by an analyst or system administrator may be derived using statistical analysis and or data mining techniques may be obtained through benchmarking activities involving one or more organizations or any combination of the above.

Also the system may receive sensed action data for multiple users and store that data in correlation with relevant attributes of the data such as identifying information for the multiple users e.g. unique device IDs for different users a date of the action or actions taken by the users in a data set such as a user profile user behavior data set or historical user training data set where the data may be organized by users.

An embodiment of a partial training needs model based on simple threshold levels is illustrated in . The model may associate various threat scenarios with various user actions that may be detected. When the system determines that a user action has been taken at least a threshold number of times in response to the threat scenario the model will identify one or more training needs that should be provided to the user optionally with priorities for the training needs. For instance a user who replies to a mock malicious SMS message from his smartphone is identified as being at a high risk of falling for such an attack. The training needs model associated with this particular threat scenario based on this particular combination of contextual attributes in this case simply the fact that the user replied to an SMS message from an unknown sender indicates that the user is in a high need for being trained in the area of messaging and smart phone security the identified training needs associated with this particular threat scenario as identified for this particular user in this particular context.

A user may be identified as being at high risk for a number of different possible threat scenarios. In one embodiment the policy manager is responsible for consolidating the training needs identified for the user and for identifying a suitable and possibly prioritized collection of training interventions based on considerations such as the collection of training interventions available for addressing the collection of training needs identified by the model.

Some training interventions can address more than one training need. For instance a smart phone security training module may address both smart phone security at large as well as malicious messaging attacks in the context of smart phones. Training interventions selected by the policy manager may include immediate just in time training interventions assignments of training interventions the user should take by a certain date and recommendations for additional training.

Elements of an embodiment of a slightly more complex training needs model including data based on one or more risk models is illustrated in . In this embodiment the training risk model includes an estimate of the susceptibility of a given user to fall victim to a given threat scenario over different periods of time. The susceptibility estimates may vary based on the different sensed activities and or by established frequency thresholds above or below which the user may be considered at risk or likely not at risk for a particular threat scenario . Susceptibility estimates can be probabilities can be based on historical data can be maintained by security analysts or can be estimated with the help of statistical analysis and or data mining techniques. Susceptibility estimates can be maintained for different time horizons such as 24 hour and 1 week or other periods to help the policy manager identify training interventions that may need to be more urgently delivered to the user and training interventions that can be assigned to be taken within a longer time window e.g. a few days a week or even a month . Twenty four hour susceptibility and one week susceptibility estimates may be related in different ways. For instance some activities may be performed 5 days per week whereas others may be performed at different frequencies e.g. 1 day per month or 7 days per week .

Elements of the quantitative training needs model illustrated in combine estimates of susceptibility and estimates of the incident cost associated with different threat scenarios to compute the risk associated with each threat scenario and possibly individual training needs for a given user in a given context. The training needs model also may include one or more costs of providing the user with training in response to the user being at risk for a threat scenario. Using the model illustrated in the policy manager can identify a combination of one or more training interventions that will best mitigate the various risks to which a given user is susceptible at a particular point in time. That identification may include prioritizing identified training interventions including differentiating between interventions that should be delivered right away and interventions that can wait a bit longer before being exposed to the user.

The particular format of the risk models shown in and are illustrative of different types of training needs models envisioned in the invention. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that similar considerations can be captured through different quantitative and qualitative variations of the training needs models illustrated in and . Format variations include variations that rely on different ways of breaking down model elements aimed at capturing probabilities costs risks and reductions in risk associated with exposing different training interventions to a user. For instance presents an embodiment of a risk model where a cost associated with exposing a user to a training intervention is approximated by the average time it takes a user to interact with that training intervention User Time Required . A benefit of the intervention such as a threat scenario addressed by the intervention or an expected risk reduction associated with the training intervention may be included in the model. Benefits may be approximated in the form of estimated risk reductions over a 1 week period a 1 month period or any other period following user exposure to the training intervention . The model also may indicate whether one training intervention is a prerequisite for another intervention so that the system may prioritize and or sequence the interventions that the policy manager directs to the user. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that a number of other parameters may be used to approximate the costs and benefits associated with exposing a user to a training intervention starting with simple rule based models that may possibly ignore the cost and or benefit altogether to significantly more complex models accounting for a wider range of costs and considerations e.g. licensing fee required for a training intervention cost of getting the user s attention cost of the user getting habituated to receiving training via mock attacks and a wider range of benefits e.g. indirect benefit of a user s likelihood to share his newly acquired knowledge with other colleagues .

In another embodiment a computer implemented training system is contemplated in which a user computing device communicates with a remote analysis host computer. The computer implemented training system includes an input device for receiving user input or a user action and a first processor coupled to the input device. The first processor has instructions which when executed by the first processor cause the first processor to receive a user initiated input from an input device transmit an action associated with the input to a second processor receive a training intervention possibly including a mock attack situation from the second processor and provide the training action to the user. The computer implemented training system may also receive at least one input provided at the input device in response to the provision of the training action and transmit the at least one input provided in response to the provision of the training action to the second processor.

In another embodiment in which a user computing device i.e. and illustrated in communicates with a remote analysis host computer the analysis host computer receives the user input or user action from the user computing device determines whether a need for training is indicated by the user input or action selects a training intervention appropriate for the user input or action and transmits the training intervention to the first processor if a need for training is indicated by the user input or action. The analysis host computer may also receive feedback which may be in the form of additional user inputs from user interaction with the training intervention and may further transmit additional training interventions or training intervention feedback to the user computing device.

Examples of the training interventions and meta data described in include training interventions commercialized by Wombat Security Technologies e.g. Wombat Security Technologies smart phone security training module its Anti Phishing Phil Training Game its Anti Phishing Phyllis Training Module its training cartoons its safe social networks training module its email security training module its password security training module its Social Engineering training module its Security Beyond the Office module its Safer Web Browsing training module its PhishGuru training module its Protected Health Information training module its Compliance Training module its SmishGuru training module its USBGuru training module its CyberStrength assessment and training module. Relevant attributes meta data user data including historical training data proficiency data and responses to mock attacks may also include the type of data collected by Wombat Security Technologies Security Training Platform as well as data collected by its different training modules and its PhishPatrol email filtering module.

In the method of the system may access identifying information necessary to recognize those users targeted by the mock malicious barcode attack as well as possible help customize elements of the mock attack e.g. content of a poster on which the mock malicious barcode will be displayed . The identifying information may include a unique device ID. It may also be used to access information such as the departments of target users locations where they are likely to be found e.g. to determine where to place the posters or some other information. The system may deploy a barcode containing encoded data necessary to direct the user s device to the mock malicious situation e.g. a mock malicious app store mock malicious app download link mock malicious online form or mock malicious URL and or sense the user s response. The barcode may also include data that correspond to instructions that cause the user s device to take one or more actions that could compromise the user s security such as instructions to transmit a device ID or personally identifying information about the user. The system may deploy the barcode on posters flyers TV displays or other objects in areas or on items where the trainee may be susceptible to this type of attack. Examples of such locations include posters maps or advertisements placed in or near a company elevator or break room a subway station airport or other transit facility a college campus or other location. Note that while in step is shown as taking place before step this sequence may vary. In other embodiments of the process illustrated in deployment of the mock malicious bar codes may precede accessing identifying information necessary to identify those users falling for the mock attack. For instance step may take place after step and before step .

When a user uses a barcode scanning application on a mobile device to capture an image of the mock malicious barcode the user s device will decode the data and use it to generate a request to access a mock malicious URL or perform some other action such as prompting the user to download a mock malicious mobile app inviting the user to share a mock malicious link on a social network or any number of other action that can be encoded in a barcode interpreted by a barcode scanning application and used to create a mock malicious situation equivalent to a threat scenario the target user could possibly encounter. When the system detects that a user has performed an action that is prompted by the barcode it may need to determine whether the action originated from a known trainee. It may do this by comparing the received device ID or some other user data to the known trainee information and determine if a match occurs. If the action did not originate from a known trainee the system may be programmed to discard the data it collected and or deliver a non training service such as displaying a more generic training message or displaying a broken link message or redirecting the user to a non training webpage all of which are examples of delivering a non training service . If the action did originate from a known trainee the system may capture and record identifying information about the trainee as well as the trainee s response action determine a training intervention that is appropriate for the trainee based on the trainee s action using methods such as those described earlier in this document and deliver the training to the trainee . The training intervention may be delivered to the trainee via a service that the user accessed via the barcode e.g. a webpage hosted at the mock malicious URL to which the user s mobile device was redirected through an entirely different channel e.g. an automated phone call or SMS message that uses information about the user that includes the user s cell phone number as well as possibly the location where the mock malicious barcode was scanned by assigning a training module to the user any combination of the above or of any other relevant means of delivering a training interventions. Optionally the training action may only be delivered if the trainee responds to at least a threshold number of training interventions it may only be delivered if the user takes certain predetermined actions in response to the training intervention or it may only be delivered according to more complex training needs models and or logic in the policy manager. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the flow diagram illustrated in could readily be adapted to capture embodiments of entirely different types of mock attacks namely attacks corresponding to entirely different threat scenarios such as mock attacks involving the use of mock malicious USB devices with mock malicious files. The specific templates sensors and identifying information used to support such a process would be different but the general work flow associated with some embodiments of such mock malicious attacks may be very similar with mock malicious USBs being deployed instead of mock malicious bar codes.

In the method of the system will access and store in a computer readable memory trainee information about each user to whom the mock malicious attack may be being directed. The information may include a user identifier name department role in an organization location s where the user is likely to come IP address device identifier or other information. The system may deploy a mock malicious wireless service . The service may include for example a mock malicious Wi Fi network a mock malicious device that is equipped with near field communication capability or with Bluetooth connectivity. Examples include a wireless local area network service a wireless personal area network service a near field communication reader e.g. to control access to a particular building or to support mobile payment transactions another type of wireless network service or device. Optionally the service may include identifying information that is designed to lure the user to connect to the service such as a network or device name or a logo that incorporates a name of the trainee s company or other words or images intended to inspire trust from the trainee. When the user connects to the mock malicious service the service may also deploy a command to the user s device that causes the user s device to take one or more mock malicious actions illustrative of additional elements of the threat scenarios for which user susceptibility is intended to be assessed by the mock malicious attack e.g. prompting users to enter credentials to access a mock malicious Wi Fi network downloading mock malware on the user s device prompting the user to enter a PIN number to confirm a mock malicious payment request or prompting the user to authorize the syncing of the contacts list stored on his smartphone with a mock malicious Bluetooth enabled in car phone system .

When the user requests to connect to the mock malicious wireless service the system may optionally determine whether the request originated from a known trainee. It may do this by comparing a unique device ID or some other identifying data obtained as part of the user request to determine whether the request is originating from a known trainee. If the request did not originate from a known trainee or device the system may deliver a non training service to the user such as by connecting the user to an ordinary functional Wi Fi network. If the request did originate from a known trainee the system may capture and record identifying information about the trainee as well as the trainee s response action determine a training intervention that is appropriate for the trainee based on the trainee s action using methods such as those described earlier in this document and deliver the training to the trainee . The training intervention may be delivered to the trainee via the service that the user accessed some other communication channel or output device or any combination of the above and of any other means to direct training interventions to the trainee. Optionally the training action may only be delivered if the trainee responds to at least a threshold number of training interventions or only if the user takes certain predetermined actions in response to the training intervention. Note that while in step is shown as taking place before step other sequences are possible. In other embodiments of the process illustrated in deployment of the mock malicious wireless service may precede accessing trainee information necessary to identify those users falling for the mock attack. For instance step may take place after step and before step .

In one embodiment of the method illustrated in the system will access and store in a computer readable memory trainee information about each user to whom the mock malicious message should be directed. The information will typically include the contact information necessary for the mock malicious message to be delivered to the target user s . It may also include additional information that may be used to customize and increase the credibility of the mock malicious message such as trainee s name department role in an organization country language spoken at work etc. The system may deploy a transmission that includes the mock malicious message. The message may be delivered via for example an SMS messaging service which may also include whitelisting the number from which the mock message originates with relevant cell phone operators an instant messaging application some other messaging application e.g. iMessage WhatsApp or in channel messaging application e.g. Skype Facebook a private messaging application an automated phone call service a VoIP communication service or some other messaging service. Optionally the mock malicious message attack may include instructions and or links that prompt the trainee to provide sensitive information including possibly identifying information such as a password a social security number a credit card number. Identifying information can also be used to determine whether the response recorded to the mock attack originates from a trainee who is known to the system e.g. a mock malicious phone call delivered to someone s home could possibly be answered by a family member of the trainee s . Depending on who responds to or takes action following exposure to the mock malicious message e.g. depending on whether it is a registered trainee or not the service may also deploy a follow up mock malicious attack e.g. prompting the user to provide additional sensitive information or initiate some other potentially sensitive activity .

When a user performs an action in response to the mock malicious message such as by providing a reply to the message or clicking a hyperlink in the message the system may detect the action and determine whether the action originated from a known trainee. It may do this by comparing identifying information provided as part of the user s action to identifying information about known trainees and determine if a match occurs. In an embodiment where the message is based on automated call functionality the system may use voice recognition technology to determine whether the voice of the person who answers the call matches that of a known trainee. Optionally the service may not require or retrieve personally identifiable information and may instead rely solely on the device ID to determine whether the device is a registered device that is known to be used by a known trainee. If the request did not originate from a known trainee or device the system may not need to take any particular application for that user . If the request did originate with a known trainee the system may capture and record identifying information about the trainee as well as the trainee s response action determine a training intervention that is appropriate for the trainee based on the trainee s action using methods such as those described earlier in this document and deliver the training intervention to the trainee . The training intervention may be delivered to the trainee via another message in response to the user s reply or through some other channel. Or the service may provide the trainee with instructions indicating how the trainee should receive the training intervention. Optionally the training action may only be delivered if the trainee responds to at least a threshold number of training interventions or only if the user takes certain predetermined actions in response to the training intervention. When a reply to a mock malicious message is identified as not originating from a known registered user the system may just delete the reply and not keep any information associated with that reply.

In the method of the system will access and store in a computer readable memory trainee information about each user to whom the mock malware may be directed. The information may include one or more unique device identifiers to recognize whether the mock malware is installed on a known device or not. It may include contact information e.g. phone number social networking handle video conferencing service ID email address to send users messages intended to lure them into downloading the mock malware e.g. messages containing links to a mock app store a mock malicious app download link a mock malicious URL where a user will be prompted to download mock malicious anti virus software or to download and install a software patch to an application or operating system . It may contain information about locations in whose vicinity the user is likely to come e.g. to determine where to drop off mock malicious USB memory devices with mock malware or to determine where to place posters with QR Codes directing users to mock malicious app download links . More generally the information may also include information that can be used to customize the mock malware attack such as information that can be used to increase the credibility or appeal of the mock malware attack. The system may deploy the mock malware on memory devices file transfer sites mock app stores or actual app stores mock malicious URLs actual sites where users share software e.g. software utility download sites . The mock malware may also be included in online ads or included in consumer devices that target employees are likely to purchase e.g. through a mock online store whose URL is distributed among employees of a company . When the trainee installs the mock malware the mock malware may also deploy a command to the user s device that causes the user s device to take actions similar to those an attacker might launch to further deploy a threat scenario for which the mock malware is intended to evaluate user susceptibility. This could include prompting the user to provide sensitive information collecting sensitive information e.g. mock spyware program recording the phone numbers a user calls the emails the user types the SMS messages a user receives the locations where the user goes . This information could in turn be used to further customize training interventions delivered to a user e.g. incorporating the phone numbers the user called over the course of a day or the location where he has been to show him how spyware could easily collect and transmit this information to an attacker .

When a user requests to install the malware or when the user just downloads and or installs the malware the system may detect the user s action such as by receiving the request or sensing the download and determine whether the action originated from a known trainee. It may do this by comparing the received device ID or user data to the known trainee information and determine if a match occurs. Optionally the service may not require or retrieve personally identifiable information and may instead rely solely on the device ID to determine whether the device is a registered device that is known to be used by a known trainee. In some embodiments the personally identifiable information may be returned to the service in a confirmation indicating that the fake malware has been installed. If the action did not originate from a known trainee or device then the system may not need to take any particular action for that user or it may provide the user with an error message to let the user know that the downloaded software does not work or it may provide the user with a functional version of the software the user wanted to download or it may provide the user with a generic training message intended to inform the user about the general risks associated with the threat scenario which the mock attack is intended to capture. These and other related options are intended to be captured by step deliver non training service including the option of just doing nothing. If the request did originate with a known trainee the system may capture and record identifying information about the trainee as well as the trainee s response action determine a training intervention that is appropriate for the trainee based on the trainee s action using methods such as those described earlier in this document and deliver the training intervention to the trainee . The training intervention may be delivered to the trainee via the mock malware itself or through an entirely different channel e.g. email phone call SMS . Or the mock malware may provide the trainee with instructions indicating how the trainee should receive the training intervention. Optionally the training action may only be delivered if the trainee responds to at least a threshold number of training interventions or only if the user takes certain predetermined actions in response to the training intervention. As detailed earlier more complex logic and more sophisticated training needs models may be used to drive this process. As in the sequence of steps shown in the flow diagram of may vary. For example shows step as taking place before step . In some embodiments however this step may take place after step and before step . For instance mock malware could be distributed via a mock app store. When downloaded or launched the mock malicious app might look for a unique device ID and return the ID to enable the system to determine whether the download took place on a known device thereby enabling the system to determine whether the action or request for the mock malware originated from a known trainee .

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternations and applications could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular arrangements systems apparatuses and methods disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention.

