---

title: Dynamic user-configurable information element
abstract: According to one embodiment of the invention, a system for providing a dynamic user-customizable beacon information element (IE) is described. One embodiment of the system comprises an access point comprising a hardware processor wherein the system is configured to perform operations comprising: periodically transmitting, by an access point, a first beacon frame comprising a plurality of IEs, based on user input, configuring at least one IE of the plurality of IEs in the first beacon frame, modifying the at least one IE in the first beacon frame based at least on the user input to obtain a second beacon frame comprising a modified IE based on the user input and periodically transmitting, by the access point, the second beacon frame comprising the modified IE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510329&OS=09510329&RS=09510329
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09510329
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140725
---
Embodiments of the disclosure relate to the dynamic customization of information elements to improve scalability and interoperability of a wireless communications network.

In recent years wireless client devices have emerged as a fast growing market. As one example a network device may use communicate via a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . Among the various WLAN technologies the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard is the dominating technology and is frequently used for WLANs.

Client devices within WLANs communicate with access points in order to obtain access to one or more network resources. An access point referred to as an AP is a digital device that operates as a gateway for a client device to establish a connection e.g. a communicative coupling with one or more networks e.g. the Internet an intranet etc. . For example an AP may be implemented as a wireless AP WAP which is configured to communicate wirelessly with one or more client devices as well as communicate with a networked device associated with the one or more networks such as a controller for example through a wired connection.

Client devices associate with an AP the associated AP and thereafter receive communications over the network from the associated AP. Each associated AP transmits network communications to the appropriate client device and also transmits beacons at regular intervals. The beacons are received by all client devices within range of the AP regardless of whether the client devices are associated with the AP. A beacon is information in a prescribed format that is used in managing a wireless network. The beacon allows an AP to alert all client devices within range of its presence this in turn notifies a client device of the one or more APs with which it may associate in order to connect to the wireless network. Based on the beacon among other factors the client device can determine the most appropriate AP to which it should associate. For example the client device may determine to which AP it should associate based on a received signal strength indicator RSSI as measured for a beacon. Other data may also be included within a beacon describing various statistics about the network to each client device within range such as the particular capabilities of each AP from which the client device received the beacon.

Various problems have arisen with wireless communication networks regarding the distribution of information from an AP. Two such problems include attempting to scale the transmission of information from an AP to client devices within range of the AP and the handling of the lack of interoperability of various devices connected to the network. For example an AP may distribute information to all client devices associated with the AP via a broadcast message transmitted at regular intervals in addition to the transmission of the beacon. However this strategy of distributing information requires unnecessary overhead and excessive traffic on the network. As the network grows the scalability issue is magnified. In addition one or more client devices connected to the network may process transmissions differently than another client device therefore requiring transmissions to be in various formats. For example a first client device running Apple iOS may process a received transmission differently than a second client device running Android Jelly Bean. Therefore an AP distributing information via a broadcast transmission may be required to send the same transmission in various formats causing excessive traffic the network.

Current approaches for modifying the information distributed via a beacon require the manufacturer of the APs to modify computer software of the APs connected to the network. This further requires that once the modifications have been made to the computer software the APs on the network be updated with the modified computer software. For example computer software may include a binary file such as a device driver of the AP. Typically this requires that the APs be disconnected from the network. Therefore currently a modification of the information distributed via a beacon is a process that is disruptive to the network.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

Various embodiments of the disclosure relate to user customization of dynamic information distributed in a beacon by an access point AP to one or more client devices within range of the AP within a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . A user deploying the network may modify an information element IE in a beacon that is transmitted to one or more client devices within range of one or more APs. The modification of the IE may include altering the content of the information being transmitted adding one or more new IEs in the beacon and or removing one or more IEs currently included in the beacon. A client device may perform tasks according to the one or more customized IEs included in the beacon or modify characteristics of the client device according to the one or more customized IEs.

Herein certain terminology is used to describe features within embodiments of the invention. For example the term network device generally refers to electronic equipment which may be configured with an antenna system that enables transmission and or receipt of wireless messages over a wireless network. Hence the network device is further adapted with circuitry to support wireless connectivity with other network devices being part of the wireless network. Different types of network devices may include but are not limited to 1 a client device and 2 an edge device.

Herein the term client device may refer to a stationary network device e.g. desktop computer television set top box video gaming console etc. or a mobile network device capable of connecting to one or more wireless networks. Illustrative examples of mobile network devices may include among others a tablet laptop netbook bar code scanner a digital camera and or a mobile handset such as a smartphone or a personal digital assistant PDA. Likewise the term access point or AP is a network device a type of edge device in particular that controls access to a network where the AP may be deployed as a wired access point that featured wired connectivity with one or more client devices or as a wireless access point that featured wireless connectivity with one or more client devices. Of course the AP also may represent other types of edge devices such as a wireless base station a cellular base station or any device configured as a hot spot or gateway for network connectivity.

It is contemplated that a network device includes hardware logic such as one or more of the following i processing circuitry e.g. a hardware processor ii one or more communication interfaces such as a radio e.g. component that handles the wireless data transmission and or reception and or a physical connector to support wired connectivity and or iii memory in the form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive etc. or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive portable hard disk drive or the like.

Herein the term logic is generally defined as hardware and or software. For example as hardware logic may include processing circuitry e.g. a microcontroller any type of processor a programmable gate array an application specific integrated circuit etc. semiconductor memory combinatorial logic or the like. As software logic may be one or more software modules such as executable code in the form of an executable application an application programming interface API a subroutine a function a procedure an object method implementation an applet a servlet a routine a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library or one or more instructions. These software modules may be stored in any type of a suitable non transitory storage medium described above or transitory computer readable transmission media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals .

The term link is a physical or logical communication path between two or more network devices. Examples of a link may include a wireless link that supports the transfer of wireless messages over certain radio frequency RF channels and or bands or cellular frequency channels and or bands as well as the logic associated therewith.

The term message generally refers to information transmitted as information in a prescribed format where each message may be in the form of a packet a frame an IEEE 802.11 frame or any other series of bits having the prescribed format.

The term beacon refers to data broadcast by an AP and received by any client device within range of the AP. A beacon may be a management frame that allows the transmitting AP to notify any client devices within range of the AP that the AP is operating. For example the beacon may indicate to one or more client devices that it would be advantageous to the client device to associate itself with the transmitting AP based on one or more statistics included in the beacon. Examples of such statistics include but are not limited or restricted to a timestamp a service set identifier SSID of the WLAN transmission rates of the WLAN and or requirements necessary to connect to the WLAN on which the beacon was transmitted. A beacon may further act as a heartbeat such that the beacon indicates to any client devices associated with the transmitting AP that the AP is still operating. In addition a beacon may include a frame header and or a portion containing a cyclic redundancy check CRC . Throughout the specification and claims the terms beacon and beacon frame are used interchangeably.

The term information element IE should be construed as an encoding of data including network management information that is to be communicated between a transmitting electronic device and one or more client devices e.g. stations located within the transmission range of the transmitting electronic device. Examples of a transmitting electronic device include but are not limited or restricted to an access point AP operating on a WLAN a Bluetooth transmitter a Bluetooth Low Energy LE transmitter a radio frequency identification RFID transmitter etc. In one embodiment the IE may be located within a beacon. Alternatively in a second embodiment the IE may be located within a probe response.

The term customize should be construed as the modification of the characteristics and or contents of a frame that may hold one or more IEs such as a beacon according to a user s preferences or specifications. For instance customizing a beacon may include but is not limited or restricted to altering the contents of one or more IEs included within the beacon transmission providing additional IEs to be included in the beacon transmission and or removing one or more IEs in future beacon transmissions. Throughout the specification and claims the terms customize and modify are used interchangeably.

The term dynamically user customizable information element IE should be construed as an IE of a beacon that may be modified. In particular the dynamically user customizable IE may be altered added to or removed from the beacon. Throughout the specification and claims the terms dynamically user customizable IE and dynamically user customizable beacon IE are used interchangeably.

The term one or more operations influenced or controlled by should be construed as the acceptance of content included within at least a portion of a beacon. A client device may be within range of multiple APs and therefore receive beacons from the multiple APs. A beacon that a client device receives but disregards is not a beacon that influences or controls one or more operations of the client device. A client device may allow the information included within a received beacon to influence one or more operations of the client device. This should be construed as the client device considering at least a portion of the received beacon when making one or determination e.g. with which AP the client device should associate . In addition the client device may allow the information included within a received beacon to control one or more operations of the client device e.g. the beacon may instruct the client device to present a notification to the user .

Lastly the terms or and and or as used herein are to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C or A B and or C mean any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

As this invention is susceptible to embodiments of many different forms it is intended that the present disclosure is to be considered as an example of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments shown and described.

Referring to an exemplary diagram comprising a first group of one or more client devices receives a first beacon from a first AP and a second group of one or more client devices receives a second beacon from a second AP within a wireless communication network is shown. The wireless communications network comprises the AP the AP the client devices and the client devices . . . . The range illustrates an exemplary range for the AP and the range illustrates an exemplary range for the AP . illustrates that the client devices are located within the range while the client devices is located within the range .

When an AP transmits a beacon any client device within range of the AP will receive the beacon. In the exemplary embodiment of when the AP transmits a beacon only client devices within the range will receive the beacon namely client devices . Likewise when the AP transmits a beacon only client devices within the range will receive the beacon namely client devices . Therefore a user deploying the wireless communications network may transmit a first group of one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs to the client device in the beacon of the AP . Similarly the user may transmit a second group of one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs to the client devices in the beacon of AP . The first group of one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs may be the same as or different than the second group of one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs.

As an example the embodiment illustrated in may correspond to a WLAN within a hospital wherein the each client device of the client devices and the client devices correspond to a client device in a separate room within the hospital. In such an example each client device may represent a telephone with wireless capabilities. Furthermore a user deploying the network might be for example a nurse employed by the hospital. A shift change among nurses may lead to the nurse for one or more patients changing. Ideally the nurse beginning her shift would be able to update the telephones in her patients rooms i.e. one or more of the client devices or the client devices by sending out her name and or contact information. Therefore one embodiment of the disclosure enables a user i.e. a nurse to customize a beacon being transmitted by one or more APs such that the customized beacon includes information specified by the user.

Continuing the example and still referring to the nurse beginning her shift may customize the beacon of AP and or AP such that it no longer includes the name and contact information of the previous nurse but instead includes her name and contact information. The nurse modifies information transmitted in the beacon of AP and or AP by dynamically customizing one or more IEs of the beacon of one or more APs.

In one embodiment the nurse may be responsible for rooms corresponding to the client devices and would therefore modify the dynamically user customizable beacon IEs representing the nurse s name and the nurse s contact information of the beacon corresponding to the AP . These modified dynamically user customizable beacon IEs would then be transmitted to the AP . Thereafter the AP would transmit beacons that include the modified dynamically user customizable beacon IEs representing the nurse s name and the nurse s contact information. This dynamic user customization may be done in real time while the AP is continuing to provide network access to the client devices . In addition the nurse may specify a subset of virtual access points executing on the AP that is to transmit one or more dynamically user customizable IEs.

Referring to the exemplary diagram of is illustrated wherein the first AP and the second AP are associated with a controller is shown. The wireless communications network includes the AP the AP the client devices the client device and the controller e.g. a network device . The controller may manage the APs that are associated with the controller . In the example embodiment illustrated in the AP and the AP are in communication with the controller . Therefore the controller manages the AP and the AP by providing the AP and the AP with among other things information pertaining to any client devices associated with the APs and or information regarding the status of the network.

In an embodiment wherein one or more APs are associated with a controller the dynamically user customizable beacon IE may propagate from the user to the one or more APs through the controller. For example a user may dynamically customize one or more IEs to be transmitted in the beacon of the AP by updating the content of one or more dynamically customizable IEs included in the beacon of AP . The modified content may pass from the device used by the user referred to as user input device to modify the one or more IEs to the controller and from the controller to the AP . The user input device will be discussed in more detail below.

In addition the controller may conduct an action or some actions based on the one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs propagating from the user. The controller may modify an operation or functionality of the controller or of the AP and or the AP based on the one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs. It should be noted that the controller and the AP and or the AP do not necessary have to be provided by the same vendor or manufacturer.

In the exemplary illustrations of the transmission ranges of the APs the AP and the AP do not overlap. Therefore the situation provided in is such that each client device illustrated only received transmission of beacons from a single AP. Referring to an exemplary diagram illustrating one or more client devices receiving a first beacon from a first AP one or more client devices receiving a second beacon from a second AP and a client device receiving both the first beacon from a first AP and the second beacon from the second AP within a wireless communication network is shown. Lines containing arrows pointing to a client device and the associated AP indicate the associations of each client device with an AP. The range of AP includes the client devices . . . as well as the client device . The range of AP includes the client devices . . . as well as the client device . Since the client devices . . . receive beacons only from the AP and the client devices . . . receive beacons only from AP no decision is required by the client devices . . . or the client devices . . . as to which beacon each should allow to influence or control one or more operations of the client devices . . . or the client devices . . . .

In contrast the client device is configured to decide as to which beacon influences its operability. For instance the client device and perhaps all client devices may include logic that determines if multiple beacons are detected which beacon controls at least in part operability of the client device . The functionality of this logic may vary depending on the parameters that are selected to influence the decision as to which beacon controls operability of the client device . In one exemplary embodiment functionality of the client device may be influenced by the beacon having the greatest signal strength i.e. a beacon may parse each received beacon and compare the received signal strength indicator RSSI of each . Alternatively a beacon may contain an identifier that identifies the client devices that should have one or more operations influenced or controlled in whole or in part by the particular beacon.

In one embodiment the client devices the client devices and the client device may each represent telephones located in separate hospital rooms. In such an embodiment the nurse may only be responsible for rooms in which the client devices are located. Therefore by selecting the rooms the nurse will oversee those in which the client devices are located she may set an identifier transmitted in the beacon of the AP . In such an embodiment the beacon transmitted by the AP would denote that the beacon is intended for the client devices and contain the nurse s contact information. Therefore the client device would disregard the beacon transmitted by the AP while the client devices may modify their phone directories with the nurse s contact information.

In yet another embodiment still referring to the beacon transmitted by the APs and may each contain an identifier denoting the AP that transmitted the beacon. In such an embodiment the client devices may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted from the AP with which they are associated. For example the client devices and the client device may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted by the AP whereas the client devices may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted by the AP due to their respective associations.

In yet another embodiment still referring to the beacon transmitted by the APs and may each contain an identifier denoting the AP that transmitted the beacon. In such an embodiment the client devices may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted from the AP with which they are associated. For example the client devices and the client device may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted by the AP whereas the client devices may have one or more operations influenced or controlled by beacons transmitted by the AP due to their respective associations.

In addition an embodiment may exist such that a first AP is located within the transmission range of a second AP not shown . In this situation the first AP may receive the beacons transmitted by the second AP. The first AP may use the information included in the beacon of the second AP to determine among other things the saturation of the channel of the first AP and or of the second AP.

Referring to an exemplary portion of a beacon is shown. The beacon comprises data to be transmitted consists of a single transmission wherein the data is separated into sequential blocks of bytes. In the exemplary embodiment of six blocks of bytes blocks are illustrated. Blocks and include identifiers X Y and 1 respectively . In one embodiment client devices receiving the beacon may parse the beacon looking for a particular identifier. For example a client device may receive multiple beacons but have one or more operations influenced or controlled by information corresponding to a particular identifier. Following the identifier in the block the block includes data corresponding to identifier X . Similarly the block includes data corresponding to identifier Y and the block includes data corresponding to identifier 1. 

Therefore a client device receiving one or more beacons may decide which beacon it should allow to influence or control one or more operations of the client device based on which beacon includes a particular identifier. Furthermore the client device may disregard any information not included in the data corresponding to the particular identifier. Still referring to an identifier may indicate that the subsequent information is relevant to all client devices receiving the beacon. For example the block contains the identifier 1 which may indicate that the subsequent information is relevant to all client devices. In such a situation all client devices receiving the beacon would allow at least the portion of the beacon pertaining to the identifier 1 to influence or control one or more operations of the receiving client devices. As an example an identifier relevant to all client devices may correspond to information such as among others the current capacity of the AP. As an alternative example the identifier 1 may signify that there is an emergency and that the subsequent information is relevant to all client devices receiving the beacon. In one embodiment the reception of the beacon by one or more telephones i.e. client devices may cause the one or more telephones to ring and play a prerecorded message when the telephone is answered.

Each of the blocks may represent a dynamically user customizable IE and can therefore be modified by a user. For example a nurse beginning a shift may modify block to include her name and block to include her contact information. The AP transmitting the beacon would begin transmitting the beacon immediately such that the beacon would include the information modified by the nurse beginning her shift.

Referring to an exemplary diagram illustrating one or more client devices receiving a beacon from an AP that receives from a user input device a modification to information included within the beacon transmitted by the AP within a wireless communication network is shown. The wireless communications network comprises the AP the client devices and the user input device . The range illustrates an exemplary range for the AP . illustrates that the client devices are located within the range and therefore receive the beacon transmitted by the AP . The user input device provides a modification to the information included in one or more dynamically user customizable IEs of the beacon of AP . In addition the AP may modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs immediately upon receipt of instructions to modify the one or more dynamically user customizable IEs from the user input device or the user may specify a particular time at which the AP is to modify the one or more dynamically user customizable IEs. For example a nurse may arrive to the hospital thirty minutes prior to the beginning of her shift and instruct the AP to update one or more dynamically user customizable IEs in thirty minutes with her name and contact information.

The user input device may be any electronic device directly or indirectly connected to the AP . Examples of a user input device include but are not limited or restricted to a computer a mobile device such as a mobile telephone or a tablet or an electronic device tailored specifically for updating information included within a beacon. In addition a web interface e.g. a webpage a Command Line Interface CLI or an application may assist a user in updating information included within a beacon to be discussed below . Furthermore the user input device may be a client device associated with the AP associated with a different AP or not associated with an AP on the wireless communications network at all.

Furthermore the user input device may be an automatic function performed by a computer. For example a computer containing a calendar populated with the times at which nurses shifts begin and end may have access to a database of all nurses names and contact information that are employed by a hospital. The computer may then be programmed such that when one nurse s shift begins or ends as known by querying the calendar populated with the times at which a nurse s shift begins and ends the computer may query the database containing the nurses names and contact information and send the name and contact information of the nurse whose shift is beginning to the AP . The AP may then modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs to include the name and contact information of the nurse whose shift is beginning. The AP may then begin transmitting the beacon with the modified dynamically user customizable IEs immediately.

For example the wireless communications network may be deployed within a school building wherein the AP represents an AP within a classroom the range covers at least the area of the classroom and the client devices represent one or more electronic devices in use by one or more students in the classroom. As a class period changes the subject matter discussed within the classroom typically changes. It is likely that the students within the classroom will be required to take out new materials or submit an assignment at this point in time. Therefore a teacher i.e. a user may modify one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs included in the beacon transmitted by the AP to alert the one or more students as to the necessary actions they must take. For example a beacon including one or more dynamically user customizable IEs transmitted by the AP may instruct the students to submit a homework assignment pertaining to the class period that is about to begin. The teacher may use the user input device e.g. a computer to access a webpage or an application allowing the teacher to modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs to be included in the beacon transmitted by the AP . Upon receipt of the modified one or more dynamically user customizable IEs the AP will modify its beacon accordingly and beginning transmitting the modified beacon immediately. The use of a webpage or application to modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs will be discussed in further detail below.

Referring to a flowchart of an exemplary method for customizing one or more dynamically user customizable IEs included in a beacon through a user input device is shown. In block an AP transmits a first beacon including first information every t seconds for at least a first period of time. Therefore there is a time difference of x seconds between transmissions of beacons by the AP the time interval between transmissions is x seconds . In block the AP receives user input data from an electronic device. The user input data provides instructions to modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs within the first information. In block the AP modifies the information included in the first beacon according to the received user input data. As a result of the modification a second beacon now includes second information that may include altered additional or fewer IEs as compared to the first beacon. At least one of the first information or the second information includes one or more dynamically user customizable IEs. The first information will not be equivalent to the second information. In block the AP transmits the second beacon including the second information every x seconds for at least a second period of time.

The shift from transmission of a beacon including first information to transmission of a beacon including second information may not have an effect on the time interval used by the AP. Such a shift may occur seamlessly meaning that the modification of the beacon from including first information to second information occurs within x seconds.

Referring to the wireless communication network of including a controller is shown. illustrates that the user input device may provide the modified information to be included in the beacon of the AP to the controller . The controller may then provide the modified information to be included in the beacon to AP . In addition although not shown the controller may provide modified information from one or more user input devices to one or more APs.

Referring to an exemplary box diagram illustrating a screen that may be utilized to modify one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs is shown. The screen labeled BEACON MODIFICATION provides an exemplary illustration of a screen that may be utilized to alter add and or remove one or more dynamically user customizable IEs to be included in a beacon of one or more APs. The contents of the screen may correspond to for example the dynamically user customizable IEs that may be transmitted by one or more APs. Once the content on the screen is modified the one or more corresponding APs will modify their beacons according to the modified contents of the screen and begin transmitting the modified beacons immediately.

The screen includes four text boxes into which a user may enter text corresponding to four separate dynamically user customizable beacon IEs. For example a nurse shift change within a hospital may prompt the need to modify one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs to be included in a beacon of one or more APs within a wireless communications network. In such an example the user may be one or more of among others a nurse a doctor and or a network administrator. The textbox corresponds to the name of a nurse that will be present in the hospital during the present shift. The textbox corresponds to the contact information of the nurse listed in the textbox . The contact information is listed as a telephone extension at which the nurse in listed in the textbox may be reached. This contact information is not limited to the telephone extension at which a nurse may be reached but may include among others a number of the nurse s pager or an extension to a receptionist s desk having the capability to route the call to the appropriate nurse. The textbox corresponds to the name of a doctor that will be present in the hospital during the present shift. In addition the textbox corresponds to the contact information of the doctor and is similar to the contact information of the nurse as discussed above. Of course more or less textboxes may be present indicating more or less dynamically user customizable IEs the user may alter add and or remove from a beacon of one or more APs.

In addition the input fields in the screen represented by the textboxes and may include one or more forms of alternative input methods. Examples of alternative input methods may include but are not limited or restricted to radio buttons checkboxes and or dropdown boxes.

Referring to a second exemplary box diagram illustrating a screen that may be utilized to modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs to be included in a beacon is shown. The screen labeled BEACON MODIFICATION provides an alternative to the exemplary illustration of the screen of . The screen is comprised of three sections the sections and . The section corresponds to dynamically customizable user input the section corresponds to static information provided by the AP transmitting the beacon and the section corresponds to dynamic information provided by the AP transmitting the beacon. The section includes three dropdown boxes the dropdown boxes and that allow a user to select the name of a nurse the dropdown box and the name of the doctor s the dropdown boxes and that will be present in the hospital during the current shift. Furthermore the fields and may be automatically populated with the contact information of the selected nurse and selected doctor s respectively. The contact information of the nurse field may be pulled from a database containing the contact information of every nurse employed by the hospital. The contact information of the doctor s fields and may be populated in the same manner. In this scenario the user needs only to know the name of the nurse and or doctor s to modify at least one contact field in the section .

Alternatively the contact information of the nurse and or the doctor s may be extracted from a database by the client device. For example the client device may have access to a database including the contact information of every nurse employed by the hospital and may extract the nurse s contact information based on the nurse s name. In the embodiment of the fields and are not modifiable by the user and therefore prevent any typographical errors when entering the contact information of either the selected nurse and or the selected doctor.

In addition the dropdown box is shown in with no doctor selected and the field has not been populated with contact information. Therefore a dynamically user customizable beacon IE for neither the second doctor nor the contact information of the second doctor would appear in the beacon transmitting information included in the screen .

Still referring to if a user selected a doctor from the dropdown box the contact information of the selected doctor may be automatically populated in the field . Therefore a dynamically user customizable beacon IE would be added to the beacon corresponding to the screen for each of the dropdown box and the field . The information contained in the dropdown box and the field would be transmitted to the corresponding AP or controller along with the other information included in the screen . The corresponding AP would add two dynamically user customizable IEs to its beacon representing the dropdown box and the field . Therefore the screen provides a way for a user to dynamically customize a beacon by adding one or more dynamically user customizable beacon IEs.

The section corresponds to static information provided by the AP transmitting the beacon and includes the checkbox representing the location information of the AP transmitting the beacon. The checkbox allows a user to select whether the beacon will include the location information of the transmitting AP. Such information may be useful when one or more client devices receiving the beacon will allow the beacon to influence or control one or more operations of the client device only if the beacon is transmitted from an AP at a certain location. For example a telephone i.e. a client device may be located in a conference room but may be within range of multiple APs. Therefore the telephone may only allow the beacon to influence or control one or more operations of the client device transmitted by the AP also located within the conference and disregard beacons transmitted by one or more APs located outside of the conference room.

Alternatively a telephone i.e. a client device may use the location information of the AP transmitting the beacon to indicate its current location. For example when the telephone makes an outgoing call the receiving telephone may denote the location of the telephone making the incoming call based on the location information of the AP received in the beacon. The static information provided by the AP may include any information that is provided by the AP but is not routinely modified. Typically this may include any information programmed into the AP during its manufacture or any information downloaded by the AP through a configuration file.

In one embodiment a user may determine that inclusion of the location information of the AP is no longer necessary and uncheck the checkbox . In this instance the AP would modify its beacon upon receipt of the information included in the screen . By unchecking the checkbox a user is dynamically customizing the beacon by removing a dynamically user customizable beacon IE.

The section corresponds to dynamic information provided by the AP transmitting the beacon and includes the checkbox representing the channel capacity of the AP transmitting the beacon the checkbox representing the temperature at the location of the AP transmitting the beacon the checkbox representing the humidity at the location of the AP transmitting the beacon and the checkbox representing the number of clients associated with the AP transmitting the beacon. In the embodiment of the checkboxes and are selected and the checkboxes and are not selected. The dynamic information provided by the AP may include any information that is updated routinely e.g. at regular intervals by the AP itself.

In one embodiment the number of clients associated with the AP transmitting the beacon may be used by clients associated to with the AP to determine whether it would be advantageous to associate with a different AP. In addition or alternatively the number of clients associated with the AP transmitting the beacon may be used by clients looking to associate with an AP on the network in its determination of which AP with which it should associate.

Referring to a third exemplary box diagram illustrating a screen that may be utilized to modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs to be included in a beacon is shown. The screen labeled BEACON MODIFICATION provides an alternative to the exemplary illustration of the screens and of respectively. The screen includes input areas in this example textboxes for two separate parameters. Parameter and Parameter are illustrated as generic parameters that are completely customizable by the user. In particular referring to Parameter a user may customize the parameter name via textbox and may customize the data of Parameter via textbox . In addition Parameter is present and completely customizable as well. A user may customize the name of Parameter via textbox and the data of Parameter via textbox . Parameter is optional and need not be filled in by the user.

In addition option allows a user to add an extra parameter. The user may add as many parameters as need be. The size of the beacon transmitting the various parameters will be adjusted accordingly. If the data contained in the parameters created by the user are not all able to be transferred in one beacon the transmitter may include a flag in the first beacon that one or more subsequent beacons will follow containing the remainder of the data.

Furthermore any of the fields illustrated may be implemented as any alternative form of an input format. The input formats appearing in are strictly for illustrative purposes and should not serve to limit the implementation of one or more screens used to allow a user to dynamically customize one or more beacon IEs. In addition more or less input options may be provided for a user.

As discussed above a user may provide input that dynamically customizes one or more IEs within a beacon transmitted by one or more APs. As an alternative embodiment a user may provide input that dynamically customizes one or more probe responses transmitted by an AP. An AP may generate and transmit a first set of probe responses in response to receipt of one or more probes from one or more client devices. Each probe response in the first set of probe responses includes one or more dynamically user customizable IEs. A user either directly or via a user input device may provide user input that includes instructions to modify one or more of the dynamically user customizable IEs included in each probe response of the first set of probe responses. Based on the user input the AP may modify one or more dynamically user customizable IEs thereby generating a second set of probe responses. The AP may then begin transmission either immediately or at a time specified by the user input of the second set of probe responses in response to a probe from a client device.

As discussed above regarding dynamically user customizable IEs transmitted within a beacon the dynamically user customizable IEs transmitted within a probe response may by modified in real time without affecting the transmission of one or more probe response. Furthermore and the relevant discussions of each apply equally to a dynamically user customizable IEs transmitted within a probe response as they do to a dynamically user customizable IEs transmitted within a beacon.

Any combination of the above features and functionalities may be used in accordance with one or more embodiments. In the foregoing specification embodiments have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

