---

title: Adaptive radio communications systems and methods
abstract: An illustrative adaptive radio communications system comprises a cluster of waveform and application processor entities coupled and a plurality of transceivers. The transceivers convert radio frequency (RF) signals into digital in-phase and quadrature (I/Q) data, which is sent to the waveform processor entities via a network fabric. The waveform processor entities perform low-level waveform processing and the application processor entities perform high-level, distributed signal processing. The system and related methods are capable of processing multiple programmable waveforms of varying complexity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09166630&OS=09166630&RS=09166630
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09166630
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140722
---
As is known in the art a computer cluster or cluster comprises a set of connected computers that work together so that in many respects they can be viewed as a single system. The components of a cluster are typically connected to each other through fast local area networks LANs with each node i.e. a computer used as a server running its own instance of an operating system. Clusters are usually deployed to improve performance and availability compared to a single computer while typically being more cost effective than single computers of comparable speed or availability. Using off the self software clustering and distributed processing software high performance computing can be achieved using conventional hardware.

As is also known software defined radios SDR typically combine specialized hardware with waveform processing software typically referred to as waveform applications or waveforms to provide the flexibility to receive and transmit widely different radio protocols based solely on the software used.

It is appreciated herein that SDRs use field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or other specialized hardware. Thus SDRs use a monolithic stove piped design limited in terms of processing power and availability and may be unable to handle increasingly complex waveforms. Therefore it would be desirable to provide a radio communications system wherein waveform processing is defined within software and wherein generally system resources e.g. transceivers processors and storage can be scaled expanded dynamically to handle increasingly complex waveforms.

In one aspect a radio frequency RF communications system comprises a plurality of transceivers to receive RF signals and to convert the RF signals to digital in phase and quadrature I Q data representative of the received RF signals a plurality of waveform processor entities operatively coupled to receive the I Q data from the plurality of transceivers via a network fabric e.g. an Ethernet Fabric network and to perform digital signal processing on the received I Q data and grid computing module to determine which of the plurality of waveform processor entities receives and processes the I Q data.

In embodiments the plurality waveform processor entities demodulate the received I Q data to generate demodulated data. The system may further comprise an application processor entity operatively coupled to receive at least a portion of the demodulated data from two or more of the plurality of waveform processor entities to aggregate the received demodulated data and to perform signal processing on the aggregated demodulated data. The application processor entity may be one of a plurality of application processor entities selected by the grid computing module to receive and process the demodulated data. In embodiments the application processor entity correlates the demodulated data in time to perform wideband signal processing. In some embodiments the application processor entity aggregates data representative of RF signals received in a first band i.e. by a first transceiver and data representative of RF signals received in a second band i.e. by a second transceiver to process a spread spectrum signal.

In embodiments the system further comprises a network storage device wherein one or more of the plurality of waveform processor entities send the demodulated data to the network storage device and wherein the application processor entity receives at least a portion of the demodulated data from the network storage device.

In embodiments the system further comprises a time synchronization server operatively coupled to synchronize clocks within the plurality of transceivers and waveform processor entities. The time synchronization server may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS based time synchronization module or a rubidium standard clock.

According to another aspect a method comprises receiving RF signals at a plurality of transceivers converting the RF signals to digital in phase and quadrature I Q data representative of the received RF signals selecting from a plurality of waveform processor entities one or more waveform processor entities to perform digital signal processing on the I Q data sending the FQ data from the plurality of transceivers to the selected waveform processor entities via a network fabric e.g. an Ethernet Fabric network receiving the I Q data at the selected waveform processor entities and performing digital signal processing on the received I Q data.

In embodiments the method further comprises demodulating the received I Q data to generate demodulated data sending the demodulated data from the selected waveform processor entities to an application processor entity via the network fabric receiving at the application processor entity at least a portion of the demodulated data generated by two or more of the selected waveform processor entities aggregating the received demodulated data and performing signal processing on the aggregated demodulated data. The method may further comprise sending the demodulated data from the selected waveform processor entities to a network storage device via the network fabric and receiving at the application processor entity at least a portion of the demodulated data from the network storage device via the network fabric. In embodiments the application processor entity is selected from a plurality of application processor entities using grid computing techniques. The application processor entity may correlate the demodulated data corresponding to one or more RF bands in time to perform wideband signal processing e.g. spread spectrum .

The drawings are not necessarily to scale or inclusive of all elements of a system emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the concepts principles systems and techniques sought to be protected herein.

Referring to an illustrative adaptive radio communications system communications system includes a plurality of transceivers a plurality of waveform processor entities and one or more application processor entities collectively referred to as system components . The communications system may also include one or more network storage devices and or a time synchronization sync server also referred to as system components . The various system components are coupled together via a network fabric . It should be understood that the system may include generally any number of transceivers waveform processors application processors and or storage devices.

An illustrative transceiver comprises a radio receiver to receive RF signals e.g. via free space to convert the RF signals into digital in phase and quadrature I Q data and to make the I Q data available to the waveform processor entities and or the application processor entities via the network fabric . In embodiments an illustrative transceiver further comprises a radio transmitter to receive digital I Q data via the network fabric convert the I Q data to RF signals and transmit the RF signals e.g. into free space . An example of a transceiver is illustrated in and described below in connection therewith.

An illustrative waveform processor entity includes a memory local storage and a central processing unit CPU . In embodiments the illustrative waveform processor entity comprises a general purpose computer running the Linux operating system OS . In some embodiments the illustrative waveform processor entity comprises a BeagleBone Linux computer designed by the BeagleBoard.org Foundation a U.S. based non profit corporation having a place of business in Richardson Tex. In embodiments the local storage comprises flash memory. In embodiments the illustrative waveform processor entity includes Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6 or greater. In some embodiments the waveform processor entity includes a Universal Serial Bus USB interface for management and control e.g. used to update software stored within the local storage . The waveform process entity may also include a network fabric adapter not shown to send receive to from the network fabric .

The waveform processor entities are configured to perform digital signal processing DSP . In embodiments the DSP is defined within software referred to herein as waveform processing software . Thus it will be appreciated that the waveform processor entities and the application processor entities need not include specialized hardware such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific integrated circuits ASICs for DSP. It will be appreciated however that a portion of the DSP can be performed by an FPGA and or an ASIC. In embodiments the waveform processing software can be modified dynamically e.g. an administrator may install software via a USB interface . It should be understood that the systems and concepts sought to be protected herein are not limited to any particular signal processing techniques.

An illustrative application processor entity is similar to the illustrative waveform processor entity described hereinabove with certain similarities and differences discussed herein. The application processor entity includes a memory local storage a CPU and in some embodiments a USB interface which may be similar to the waveform processor entity memory local storage CPU and USB interface respectively. The illustrative application processor entity may also include a network fabric adapter not shown to send receive to from the network fabric .

The application processor entities are configured to perform DSP. In embodiments the DSP is defined within software referred to as application processing software although it will be understood that portions of the DSP may also be performed using an FPGA and or an ASIC. In embodiments the application processing software can be modified dynamically e.g. an administrator may install software via a USB interface . Whereas the waveform processor entities generally perform low level signal process techniques e.g. demodulation the application processor entities generally perform high level signal processing techniques. For example in embodiments an application processor entity correlates and aggregates data from a plurality of transceivers to receive a signal deliberately spread across multiple frequency bands i.e. a spread spectrum signal . Other non limiting examples of application processor techniques include enabling diversity reception to reduce and ideally eliminate selective fading and other propagation anomalies operating as an interferometer acting as a phased array for enhanced gain and or directivity and providing signal detection and correlation in the performance of signals intelligence work.

The network fabric comprises a plurality of data links to allow data transfer between the various system components. In embodiments the network links comprise gigabit Ethernet links such as fiber optic links. In embodiments the network fabric comprises an Ethernet Fabric network. Thus the system components may be directly linked i.e. point to point or indirectly linked via one or more switches e.g. fabric switches .

The network storage devices are used by the other system components to store and retrieve data via the network fabric . In embodiments an illustrative network storage device comprises one or more services and corresponding application programming interfaces APIs or protocols. In embodiments the network storage device comprises a solid state drive SSD or other type of non volatile storage. In embodiments the network storage device further comprises a microcontroller and a network fabric adapter. As used herein the term microcontroller is used to describe a computing device having a processor a memory and programmable input output I O . Non limiting examples of microcontrollers include system on a chips SoCs and general purpose computers. In embodiments the network storage devices comprise Linux servers. In some embodiments the radio system includes a storage area network SAN comprising the network storage devices coupled via a fibre channel.

The time sync server provides time synchronization or time sync between the various system components. In some embodiments the time sync server comprises a network time server and the other system components comprise software to communicate with the time server i.e. client software . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network time server client protocols are known including protocols that can achieve sub millisecond accuracy on a local area network LAN e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP . It will be understood that time synchronization requirements vary depending on the particular waveform processing being performed e.g. code pattern synchronization in CDMA or timed key exchanges in cryptographic systems and therefore other suitable protocols may be used in some cases the time sync server may be excluded.

In some embodiments the communications system comprises a wide area network WAN or is coupled to another communications system via a WAN. Therefore it may be desirable to provide multiple time sync servers such that each or most system components are connected to a time sync server via a LAN to avoid high latency and low availability typically associated with a WAN. In such embodiments the time sync servers may comprise rubidium clocks i.e. rubidium standard or atomic clocks and or Global Positioning System GPS based time synchronization modules to provide accurate time within each of the LANs. GPS based time synchronization modules are known in the art and may comprise a GPS antenna as shown.

In embodiments the communications system is coupled to one or more external systems . An illustrative external system includes a user display a user input and a processor operatively coupled to allow an operator to perform configuration and maintenance tasks such as adding resources and uploading waveform software. As another example an external system includes a user display a user input and a processor operatively coupled to allow a user to select waveforms select frequency bands and view spectrum display output.

The communications system includes one or more grid computing modules comprising software e.g. a middleware and or hardware components configured to perform grid processing techniques known in the art. For simplicity of explanation only one grid computing module is shown in however it should be understood that the system could include several grid computing modules. Moreover the grid computing modules may be provided as software hardware elements within the other system components e.g. transceivers waveform processor entities and or application processor entities .

In embodiments the grid computing modules comprise clustering software such as Red Hate Enterprise Linux High Availability Add On and distributed processing software such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux Grid HTCondor or other software that provides high throughput high performance distributed computing within a computer cluster. In one aspect the system includes or is part of a computer cluster wherein one or more of the system components correspond to cluster nodes or resources. More specifically the waveform and application processor entities correspond to processing resources and the storage devices correspond to storage resources.

Although features and operations of grid computing are known to those skilled in the art a brief overview is given herein. Grid computing solutions provide job queuing mechanism scheduling policy priority schemes resource monitoring and resource management. Users can submit jobs to the cluster e.g. via an external control system which places the jobs into an appropriate queue and chooses when and where to run the jobs based upon required and available resources. A grid computing module may monitor the progress of each job and inform the user of job completion e.g. via an external display . Computationally expensive jobs can be distributed and performed by multiple resources in parallel i.e. distributed processing . Resources can be dynamically added and removed without disrupting normal system operation. For example processor entities can be dynamically added to handle more complex waveforms. In addition grid computing software hardware handles node failures such that the failure of any given node generally does not cause the overall system to fail. In general any resource can be utilized for any of a number of waveforms simultaneously.

In illustrative embodiments the communications system can function as a radio receiver and or a radio transmitter. In receiver operation the transceivers receive RF signals e.g. from free space demodulate the received signals into in phase and quadrature I Q signals and convert the I Q signals into digital form referred to herein as I Q data . The I Q data is representative of the received RF signals meaning that it conveys sufficient information about the received RF signals to allow digital signal processing and analysis to be performed. The transceivers send the I Q data to the other system components via the network fabric .

In embodiments the transceivers generate and send network data packets comprising the I Q data. In one embodiment the network fabric comprises an Ethernet network and the transceivers generate and send Ethernet packets comprising the I Q data i.e. the Ethernet packet frames or payloads comprise the I Q data .

In one aspect the I Q data is a stream of data is converted to blocks of data i.e. data packets for transmission through the network. Any suitable framing technique may be used to generate the data packets. In one embodiment the transceivers use a time based framing technique whereby the I Q data is segmented by time periods e.g. a predetermine constant time period and each data packet generally corresponds to one time period. For example each data packet may correspond to N seconds of I Q data and thus N seconds of received RF signal information . Moreover multiple transceivers having synchronized clocks using time sync module can implement a cooperative time based framing technique whereby data packets generated from each of those receivers generally start and end at common time boundaries. It will be appreciated that this technique allows the processor entities to receive data packets from multiple transceivers and to correlate those data packets in time for wideband signal processing e.g. processing spread spectrum signals .

An illustrative transceiver determines the destination network node or nodes for the sent I Q data. More specifically a grid computing module e.g. software within the transceiver determines which processing resources are available to perform waveform processing on the I Q data and will schedule and load them for execution. In embodiments the transceiver assigns a corresponding media access control MAC destination address to Ethernet packets comprising the I Q data .

I Q data is received by one or more waveform processor entity via the network fabric . An illustrative waveform processor entity applies its software defined waveform to the received I Q data i.e. the input to extract information i.e. the output from the signal represented by the I Q data. For example a waveform processor entity may demodulate a carrier frequency audio signal to generate a baseband audio signal. As another example a waveform processor entity may perform digital modulation e.g. phase shift keying to extract digital information form a signal. In embodiments a waveform processor entity may use a Fast Fourier Transform FFT technique to demodulate a signal. The output referred to herein as demodulated data is sent into the network fabric or to an external device. The demodulated data may be encapsulated and sent within Ethernet packets.

An illustrative waveform processor entity determines the destination network node or nodes for the sent demodulated data using the same or similar techniques used by the transceivers as described above . The waveform processor entity may determine the demodulated data should be stored within the network storage devices or should be processed directly immediately by selected application processor entities .

The demodulated data is received via the network fabric by one or more application processor entities . The data may be received directly from the waveform processor entities or may be retrieved from the network storage devices . Thus the application processor entities may operate in a real time mode or in an offline mode. An illustrative application processor entity applies its software defined application processing to the received demodulated data i.e. the input and generates output. The type of output depends on the particular application processing software. In some embodiments an application processor entity generates a high level user report which is stored in the network storage devices via the network fabric and accessible by a user display . Other non limiting examples of application processor entity output include demodulated waveform ready for processing distribution and a waterfall spectrum display.

In embodiments an illustrative application processor entity performs aggregate signal processing of demodulated data earlier processed by multiple different waveform processor entities and stored in the network storage devices .

The communications system may also function as a radio transmitter. In transmit operation waveforms are presented to the applications processor entities which in turn distribute processing work to the waveform processor entities so that appropriate modulation timing can be created and or added. The output of the waveform processor entities is sent to appropriate transceivers which use this information to generate an RF waveform for transmission. In some embodiments additional information such as stored frequency sequences encoding information and or buffering information may be retrieved from the storage devices by the processor entities and and or by the transceivers.

It should be appreciated that the illustrative communications system provides a flexible architecture wherein the various system components i.e. transceivers processor entities and network storage devices can be dynamically allocated and configured to achieve high performance adaptive radio communications. For example to receive and process a wideband spread spectrum signal the system may allocate a plurality of transceivers each configured to receive in a narrowband i.e. a portion of the wideband a plurality of waveform processor entities configured to perform distributed demodulation on the narrowband data and a relatively small number e.g. one of application processor entities configured to aggregate the demodulated narrowband data to perform wideband signal processing. Thus the communications system can be used for low probability of detection LPD communication by hiding information with commonly used radio waveforms such as time division multiple access TDMA or code division multiple access CDMA .

In one embodiment one or more of the processor entities and or transceivers are disposed upon a common substrate using for example multi chip module MCM packaging. In embodiments the system is provided within or comprises a mechanically rugged case.

Referring now to an illustrative transceiver may be the same as or similar to a transceiver within the communications system of . The transceiver includes a radio receiver a radio transmitter a microcontroller a memory and a local storage module . The illustrative transceiver further includes a network fabric adapter to send receive to from the network fabric . In some embodiments the transceiver includes a USB interface for management and control e.g. to update software stored within the local storage . In embodiments the local storage comprises flash memory. The various transceiver components are coupled together by a computer bus or a plurality of interconnected computer buses . In embodiments the bus utilizes Ethernet fabric or fibre.

In some embodiments the transceiver comprises a general purpose computer and the microcontroller memory local storage USB interface and or network adapter may be provided as part of the computer. The computer may be a BeagleBone running Red Hat Enterprise Linux Version 6 or greater and my include grid computing software e.g. a middleware . In some embodiments the receiver and transmitter are provided on separate boards that interface with the general purpose computer. In embodiments the receiver and transmitter are provided on provided as MCMs on a shared substrate.

The illustrative radio receiver comprises a receive antenna coupled to a first band pass filter and a second band pass filter coupled to the first band pass filter via a low noise amplifier LNA . The second band pass filter is operatively coupled to a first differential amplifier via a first transformer and the first differential amplifier is coupled to a first mixer and a second mixer as shown. The receiver further comprises a local oscillator and a second differential amplifier operatively coupled via a second transformer . The second differential amplifier output is coupled to a splitter having a 0 degree output coupled to the first mixer and a 90 degree output coupled to the second mixer . The first mixer output is coupled to a first analog to digital converter ADC and the second mixer output is coupled to a second ADC . In embodiments the mixers and ADCs are coupled via one or more filters and or amplifiers generally indicated as in .

Although the operation of the illustrative receiver circuit shown in will be known to those skilled in the art a brief overview is given herein. An RF signal is received at the antenna and filtered by the first band pass filter to produces a corresponding band pass signal. The band pass signal is amplified by the LNA having a suitable gain and again filtered by operation of the second band pass filter . The first and second band pass filters are tuned to a desired frequency band. The band pass signal is received as input to both mixers with the first transformer and differential amplifier providing isolation protection and impedance matching between band pass filter and the mixer

The local oscillator generates a sinusoidal signal having a selected demodulation frequency. The second transformer and second differential amplifier provide isolation protection and impedance matching between the local oscillator and other circuit elements. The splitter splits the sinusoidal signal into corresponding real and imaginary signals i.e. two sinusoidal signals with a 90 degree phase difference which are received as input to the first mixer and second mixer respectively. Thus the first mixer generates an in phase down mixed signal and the second mixer generates a quadrature down mixed signal. The filters remove negative frequency spectrum and noise outside the desired bandwidth. The resulting in phase and quadrature down mixed signals are received by the first ADC and second ADC respectively.

The ADCs convert the analog down mixed signals to a representative digital form I Q data . The ADCs sample and quantize the data using techniques known in the art. In embodiments the ADCs sample above the Nyquist frequency to avoid loss of information. The ADCs may further prepare the data for transmission through a network e.g. frame the data generate Ethernet packets etc. as described further above in connection with .

The ADCs are coupled to the microcontroller via the computer bus . Thus the microcontroller can receive I Q data from the receiver and generate corresponding network data for sending into the network fabric via the network adapter . In embodiments the bus comprises a plurality of signal paths i.e. it is a parallel bus and the microcontroller receives the in phase and quadrature data in parallel. In embodiments the microcontroller is configured e.g. uses program software stored within the local storage module to generate Ethernet packets comprising the I Q data and to send the Ethernet packets into the network fabric via the network adapter i.e. an Ethernet adapter . As discussed above the microcontroller may be configured to perform time based packet framing whereby the UQ data is segmented by time periods.

Those skilled in the art will understand that in response to receiving RF signals via the receive antenna the illustrative receiver generates representative I Q data which can be received and processed by the microcontroller . Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the concepts and techniques sought to be protected herein are not limited to the receiver illustrated in and that other receiver designs can be used.

The illustrative radio transmitter includes a first digital to analog converter DAC and a second DAC coupled to receive digital in phase data and digital quadrature data respectively from the microcontroller . In embodiments the microcontroller receives network packets comprising UQ data from the network fabric via the network adapter and sends the corresponding in phase data to the first DAC and the corresponding quadrature data to the second DAC . In embodiments the transmitter is coupled to the microcontroller via a parallel interface e.g. the bus may be a parallel bus and thus the microcontroller can send data to both of the DACs in parallel.

The transmitter further includes a first mixer coupled to the first DAC and a second mixer coupled to the second DAC via filters . A voltage controller oscillator VCO is coupled to a splitter having a 0 degree output coupled to the first mixer and a 90 degree output coupled to the second mixer . The mixers are both coupled to an amplifier via a transformer . The amplifier in turn is coupled to a transmit antenna via a band pass filter . In embodiments the transmit antenna and the receive antenna comprise a common physical antenna structure.

In operation the first DAC receives digital in phase data and generates a representative analog in phase signal which is provided as input to the first mixer . Likewise the second DAC receives corresponding digital quadrature data and generates a representative analog quadrature signal which is provided as input to the second mixer . The VCO generates a sinusoidal signal having a selected modulation frequency which is split into real and imaginary signals by the splitter . The first mixer multiples the real signal by the in phase signal and the second mixer multiples the imaginary signal by the quadrature signal. The resulting mixed signals are combined to produce a band pass signal. The band pass signal is amplified by the amplifier having a suitable gain filtered by the band pass filter and transmitted via the transmit antenna e.g. into free space 

Those skilled in the art will understand that in response to receiving digital I Q data from the microcontroller the illustrative transmitter generates and transmits a representative RF signal via the antenna . Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the concepts and techniques sought to be protected herein are not limited to the transmitter illustrated in and that other transmitter designs can be used.

At block RF signals are received e.g. from free space . At block the RF signals are converted to I Q data using any techniques described hereinabove. At block one or more of a plurality of application processor entities are selected to process the I Q data. This selection processing may utilize grid computing techniques known in the art. At block the I Q data is sent to the selected waveform processor entities via a network fabric. In embodiments the method further comprises generating Ethernet packets comprising the I Q data and sending the Ethernet packets into the network fabric i.e. into an Ethernet Fabric network . It should be appreciated that blocks may correspond to processing within a transceiver .

At block the I Q data is received at the selected waveform processor entities via the network fabric. At block the received I Q data is demodulated using any desired waveform processing technique to generate demodulated data. At block the demodulated data is sent to an application processor entity via the network fabric. In some embodiments the method further comprises storing I Q data and or demodulated data to a network storage device. In embodiments the application process entity is one of a plurality of application processor entities and the method further comprises selecting one or more application processor entities to receive and process the demodulated data. It should be appreciated that blocks may correspond to processing within a waveform processor entity .

At block demodulated data is received at the application processor entity or selected one of a plurality of application processor entities via the network fabric. The application processor entity may receive any combination of demodulated data sent by the selected waveform processor entities e.g. all data from one waveform processor entities a portion of data from multiple waveform processor entities etc. . At block the received demodulated data is aggregated and at block digital signal processing techniques are applied to the aggregated data. In some embodiments the illustrative method further comprises correlating the demodulated data in time to perform wideband signal processing e.g. spread spectrum . It should be appreciated that blocks may correspond to processing within an application processor entity .

In embodiments the computer can perform at least part of the processing within one or more components of the communications system . Thus the non volatile memory may also store grid computing software executable by the processor as shown.

Processing may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of the two. Processing may be implemented in computer programs executed on programmable computers machines that each includes a processor a storage medium or other article of manufacture that is readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and one or more output devices. Program code may be applied to data entered using an input device to perform processing and to generate output information.

The system can perform processing at least in part via a computer program product e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers . Each such program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the programs may be implemented in assembly or machine language. The language may be a compiled or an interpreted language and it may be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. A computer program may be stored on a storage medium or device e.g. CD ROM hard disk or magnetic diskette that is readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer for configuring and operating the computer when the storage medium or device is read by the computer. Processing may also be implemented as a machine readable storage medium configured with a computer program where upon execution instructions in the computer program cause the computer to operate.

Processing may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform the functions of the system. All or part of the system may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA and or an ASIC .

Having described certain embodiments which serve to illustrate the various concepts structures and techniques sought to be protected herein it will now become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating these concepts structures and techniques may be used. Accordingly it is submitted that that scope of the patent should not be limited to the described embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims.

