---

title: Method, system and apparatus for network management based on business relationship information
abstract: A method for providing a dynamic business network and data management service system includes defining an account for a co-operation organization for accessing the dynamic business network and data network management service system. At least one co-operation organization is defined having at least one co-operation relation, wherein the co-operation relation is associated with at least two accounts. Business relationship information is defined based on the co-operation relation. The business relationship information is maintained in a system server, wherein the business relationship information has inbound information and outbound information associated to the at least two accounts. A set of context centric applications is provided accessible for the at least two accounts over a network and configured to operate on the business relationship information associated to the at least two accounts. Each context centric application is configured to generate at least one data entity and dynamically share the at least one data entity using at least one context centric application for the at least two accounts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350740&OS=09350740&RS=09350740
owner: Jakamo Oy
number: 09350740
owner_city: Seinajoki
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20141103
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a dynamic business network and data management service system. The present disclosure relates more particularly though not exclusively to providing tools and interfaces for accessing the dynamic business network and data management service system managing data entities in the system accounts data flow between users and the networking between the accounts.

A variety of cloud based services provided for different kinds of client organization processes is increasing. At the same time the information management of the dynamic business networks including tasks and dependencies with time constraints become more difficult. For example in manufacturing industry a trend for outsourcing and focusing on core competencies has evolved complex networked value chains.

Traditional information systems like enterprise resource planning systems and product data management systems are hence developing additional features portals extranets working spaces etc. to match the needs of this networked economy. This however creates a vast variety of hierarchical every company has their own different systems co operation systems with scattered information and lack of transparency.

Currently co operation tools provide different kinds of tools for individuals to create and provide input data to various systems.

However current co operation and information sharing systems are typically serving only a main company and service information is distributed downwards in hierarchy. From supplier s point of view this means that the shared information is scattered to different systems e.g. different extranets portals working spaces which different customers use and they have to sign in . Another drawback of existing systems is the distinction of information shared to you in customers sharing systems like their portals and extranets and information shared by you in your sharing systems that causes separate working spaces for information management with no combining view for all shared information in different business relations customers suppliers units from same group and other partners .

Thus there is a need for a dynamic business network and data management service system for a company as a center of its own network and information attached to its business relationships.

According to a first aspect of the disclosed embodiments there is provided a method for providing a dynamic business network and data management service system the method comprising 

In an embodiment the account comprises at least one of a group account reflecting a business group and a sub account reflecting a company belonging to the business group and the method further comprising 

In an embodiment the account for a co operation organization for accessing the dynamic network management service system comprising a group of sub accounts the sub accounts reflecting companies belonging to same group represented by the account.

In an embodiment the access rights for the account define access rights for data entities accessible for the account using context centric applications.

In an embodiment the apparatus comprises a server apparatus connected via the communication unit to Internet and configured to provide access to a plurality of user devices and the server apparatus further comprising 

In an embodiment the dynamic business network and data management service system related data comprises at least one of the following public data public timelines public data entities and public work objects and

In an embodiment the searchable information comprising organized information ready for searching and retrieval by extracting key words and the cached information comprising copies of content that the service system locates and makes available to the plurality of user devices.

In an embodiment history data of the dynamic business network and data management service system is stored to the cached information.

In an embodiment the data entity comprising an order from an ERP system external to the network level information platform NIP .

According to a third aspect of the disclosed embodiments there is provided a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium comprising computer executable program code which when executed by at least one processor of an apparatus causes the apparatus to 

Any foregoing memory medium may comprise a digital data storage such as a data disc or diskette optical storage magnetic storage holographic storage opto magnetic storage phase change memory resistive random access memory magnetic random access memory solid electrolyte memory ferroelectric random access memory organic memory or polymer memory. The memory medium may be formed into a device without other substantial functions than storing memory or it may be formed as part of a device with other functions including but not limited to a memory of a computer a chip set and a sub assembly of an electronic device.

Different non binding example aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure have been illustrated in the foregoing. The above embodiments are used merely to explain selected aspects or steps that may be utilized in implementations of the aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Some embodiments may be presented only with reference to certain aspects of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that corresponding embodiments may apply to other aspects as well.

In the following description like numbers denote like elements. The systems and techniques described here relate to dynamic business network management and dynamic information management.

Technology has been developed to help in providing dynamic business network management and dynamic information management and tools for it. Typical challenges comprise for example management of networked projects providing transparency in the projects delegating responsibility within the project team and providing online feedback of the project status.

Apparatus may obtain the information the user needs through network that may be a single network or combination of networks. Apparatus may also generate information. A dynamic business network and data management service system server may also communicate with the network to receive data object requests from apparatus and locate information to return to the apparatus . The server may be of any applicable form.

Among other components included in the dynamic business network and data management service system server there may be a global database a user database an index database and a cached information database . The global database contains dynamic business network and data management service system related data that is available to all users of the service system for example public data public timelines public data entities public work objects and collaborators. The user database contains data that is available only to the dedicated user of the service system for example private data private timelines private data entities work objects collaborators and user profile information. The index database contains data that represent searchable information available to the service system . For example the dynamic business network and data management service system server may scan the internet intranets collaboration or co operation servers or various databases for content such as web sites service providers external indexes or workgroup discussions may extract key words and other objects from the content and may organize the information in a manner that permits ready searching and retrieval. The index database may also generate other information from the content such as indicators of how certain web sites link to other web sites and other related metadata. Dynamic business network and data management service system data such as data entities generated by context centric applications may also be transferred between the databases . For example a user having copy rights may copy a data entity from the global database to the user database .

In an example embodiment of the present disclosure the cached information database contains copies or substantial copies of content that the service system locates. In this manner a user who accesses system may request the cached information rather than making direct connection with the content provider such as when the content provider is inaccessible has changed the content since it was cached or when the connection to the content provided is substantially slower than that to the dynamic service system . Service system may also be used to provide partial or subsets of information or combinations of information that may be preferable in some cases to full web content directly from source systems.

In an example embodiment history data of the dynamic business network and data management service system may be stored to the cached information database .

The dynamic business network and data management service system may also include other nodes connected to the network . These nodes could include any sort of device or devices capable of communicating with or over the network . For example node could be a user apparatus monitoring a co operation project status between two companies for example by monitoring a data entity generated by a context centric application such as development plan information generated by a development application and defined by the user of device . Node may also be a web server that is capable of delivering content in response to requests by users such as a user of device or deliver content automatically based on a variety of attributes and variables. As another example node could be an external service provider that may be accessed by the device or the dynamic service server .

Requests for data entities can be initiated by either apparatus or by dynamic service system server . Although the request passes through network and other components that are not pictured it is directed at service system server . Service system server then receives the dynamic request and applies it to a dynamic process such as by parsing the request locating available content in databases that contains available responses for the request. The service system server may then transmit dynamic requests to respondents relating to dynamic objects without available responses receive responses from the respondents organize the dynamic information to a report or a response in the dynamic service system as defined by the requesting user and transmit the report or the response or indication of it to designated users through network as a service result. For example the returned information may also be transcoded to appropriate format for processing in the apparatus such as HTML code XML messages WAP code java applets JavaScript object notations JSONs xhtml plain text voiceXML VoxML VXML or such.

The service system server may include a global database and a user database . Furthermore the service system server may also include an index database and a cached information database . These databases may be connected to service system server for example by a high bandwidth LAN or WAN or could also be connected to the search system server through network . The databases may also be located in the same location as the server or split up so that they are located in multiple locations.

The system server may communicate through an internal interface and an external interface which are shown as distinct interfaces but may be partially or fully combined or may be represented by additional interfaces. For example internal interface may comprise interface devices for a high speed high bandwidth network such as SONET Infiniband or Ethernet network cards or any appropriate communication hardware operating under an appropriate protocol so that dynamic service system server can respond to a large number of distinct dynamic requests simultaneously. External interface may comprise interface devices for communicating with network such as Ethernet network interface cards NICs or other communications devices. The precise design of the service system server could take any appropriate form.

Within the service system server a service engine operates to produce dynamic service results in response to dynamic service requests input or feedback from users employing information stored in databases . The information in index database may be gathered by a crawler which may continuously or almost continuously obtain new information from sources connected to network . A renderer may be included in the service system server for rendering data object related information according to system specific format. Rendering may be done also in the crawler in the service engine or in the external interface . Service requests of the dynamic business network and data management service system may be received through the external interface and handled by the request processor . For example request processor may parse the requests and reformat them for example from html text requests to internally usable search terms strings. The dynamic information such as data entities generated by context centric applications generated by the service engine in response to a request may also be converted by response formatter in a manner that allows it to be used by the requesting device such as in a WAP format HTML document XML document or VoiceML result and then transmitted via external interface .

Dynamic business network and data management service information may be retrieved and or generated by the service engine which may monitor requests from a user responses to the user or any number of requests and responses not exclusively related to a particular user. To clarify these requests and responses may be generated by internal or external systems and services. In this manner the service engine is able to begin working as soon as a request is received or a response is delivered either from a user of the system or from other system components or external systems. For example where a dynamic business network and data management service request is received by the service system that request may be processed and forwarded to service engine . In addition the service engine may recognize the request and cause additional formatted requests to be forwarded to the service engine. The service engine may cause the dynamic business network and data management service information that results from those requests to be transmitted to the user s apparatus or external services for example using response formatter .

The service engine may include for example context centric applications algorithms service parameters data entities and dynamic service engine. The service parameters may include parameters that may be selected and changed to manage the manner in which dynamic service information is gathered. The rules may be specific to particular users or accounts e.g. in a profile of rules for the user or with pointers for a user to particular parameters to minimize storage space required .

The dynamic business network and data management service system server may continually learn from users and it is possible to build a dedicated index for example a content matching engine based on the data passing through the system. Such index may be located in the index database . It is also possible to use any available public or proprietary index for example but not limited to an openly available index on the internet or a corporate database within a corporate intranet.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the dynamic profile information may contain several types of attributes. Profile information for the users may be located in system storage block of . Profile information may also be located in the user database or in the global database . Profiles may also connect to other users and systems including both internal and external users and systems. Profiles and filters may be adapted and applied to external systems partially or wholly and external profile information and or filter information may be adapted and applied either partially or wholly to internal profiles and filters.

Typically an account within the system is defined for a company and certain users within that particular company may use the account.

In an embodiment pattern data is defined by the service system data mining based on the co operation and networking data processed by the system.

Data mining of the co operation and networking data may be used for various internal activities of an organization using the tool. Furthermore pattern data mining may be used for various external activities of an organization such as retail financial communication and marketing. It enables to determine relationships among internal factors such as price timing product positioning or staff skills and external factors such as economic indicators competition and customer demographics. And it enables them to determine the impact on sales customer satisfaction and corporate profits. Finally it enables them to drill down into summary information to view detail transactional data.

In an embodiment dynamic business network and data management service system may store all data entities related to the context centric applications and perform pattern data mining. Thus certain patterns may be detected in organizational project or data entity level as well as company group or certain location level for example.

While large scale information technology has been evolving separate transaction and analytical systems data mining provides the link between the two. Data mining software analyzes relationships and patterns in stored transaction data based on open ended user queries. Several types of analytical software may be used in the dynamic business network and data management service system statistical machine learning and neural networks. Furthermore different relationships for pattern data may exist.

In an example embodiment of the present disclosure the service system described in may be applied to various purposes for example enterprise dynamic co operation data management networking between companies cross company co operation data management or personal dynamic data management.

In enterprise data management the dynamic service system may provide any dynamic service based on company and or employee needs for example project management sourcing product development manufacturing billing and auditing. User profile information may be applied to enterprise usage. There are vast amount of information contained in corporate intranets corporate database systems and related systems. For example in customer relationship management tools human resources tools project management tools requirements management tools enterprise resource planning tools product data management tools communications tools recruitment tools marketing tools strategic planning tools financial tools and additionally in relevant external data sources. However this information is often under utilized as companies and their employees face difficulties in providing and or discovering and or sharing the most relevant and beneficial data entities in a timely manner. The ability to increase the efficiency and or enjoyment of this represents a significant opportunity to increase productivity and competitiveness in enterprises. Based on the co operation data organization forecasts may be made for example. Pattern data mining may enable to provide probabilities of outcomes of ongoing projects with certain collaborators for example.

In the dynamic business network and data management service system a company is in a center of its own network . The network structure may comprise a plurality of network segments and each segment may comprise a plurality of companies or organizations .

In an embodiment a segment may represent customers comprising customer companies or organizations the company has a business relationship. In the customers are illustrated as two black dots in the segment .

In an embodiment a segment may represent internal relations comprising companies or organizations of the same group as the company . In a company or organization of the internal relation illustrated as a black dot in the segment .

In an embodiment an account for a co operation organization for accessing the dynamic network management service system may comprise a group of sub accounts the sub accounts reflecting companies belonging to same group represented by a group account. Thus a group account may reflect a business group or a corporation of a plurality of companies. A sub account may reflect a single company within the group. All companies belonging to the same group may be regarded as belonging to the same segment in internal relations.

A group account administrator for the business group invites other accounts administrators for companies belonging to the business group to being a part of a group hosted by the group account and the invited accounts being as sub accounts to this group account. Group account may have at least one administrator user having privileges to invite delete and reject companies for a group. Correspondingly group account may have a plurality of users that may define group views data entities or information processing within the server concerning different combinations of companies within the same group.

Account hierarchy may be dynamic and non hierarchical compared to tree like organization structure. A group account may select sub accounts belonging to the same group and also to separate the sub accounts from the group. Thus merging of companies to the same group is easy and also spinning out sub accounts as a new group is possible without a need to start all over again. Dynamic maintenance of all information in the system by updating the account structure is enabled.

Then referring to the segment represents internal relations comprising companies or organizations of the same group as the company .

In an embodiment a segment may represent other organizations comprising companies or organizations the company has a business relationship. In the organizations are illustrated as three black dots in the segment .

In an embodiment a segment may represent suppliers comprising companies or organizations the company has a business relationship. In the suppliers are illustrated as two black dots in the segment . A dashed line illustrates a business relationship between the company and a supplier company .

In an embodiment a company A may comprise a company network corresponding to segments and companies or organizations within the segments . Similarly a company B may comprise a company network corresponding to segments and companies or organizations within the segments . The companies A and B may have a business relationship and still both companies A and B are in center of their own network. For example company A may be a supplier in company B s network and company B may be a customer in company A s network .

The network level information platform NIP of a dynamic business network and data management service system enables transparent sharing of information within the business network efficiently and reliably. The network level information platform NIP may comprise co operation information of a particular company such as the company of or company A or B in .

In an embodiment the network level information platform NIP of a company comprises information from a plurality of companies or organizations that the company has a business relationship with. The companies may be customer companies and the companies may be supplier companies for example.

The platform enables flexible arranging and providing of information. A single company for example may belong to a plurality of networks where in one network the company may be a supplier and in another network a customer and so on.

Each company may have internal information systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP Product Data Management system PDM Product Lifecycle Management system PLM and Customer Relationship Management system CRM .

The network level information platform NIP does not need to replace all the existing systems but to provide information sharing for co operation partners in company business relationship network. The existing systems in the companies may still be used for creating and storing some information.

In an embodiment the co operation information may be provided to the network level information platform NIP from the business relationship companies and their internal information systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP Product Data Management system PDM Product Lifecycle Management system PLM and Customer Relationship Management system CRM using various methods. The information may be provided manually directly integrating a system to the platform by using electronic data interchange EDI or by defining application programming interface API for example.

A company or organization using a dynamic business network and data management service system typically comprises a plurality of functionalities or departments such as research and development R D sales SAL production PRO and finance FIN for example. Furthermore a plurality of different information management systems are used within the company such as Computer Aided Design system CAD Product Data Management system PDM Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP Customer Relationship Management system CRM and development platforms PLT .

In an embodiment an account for a co operation organization for accessing the dynamic business network and data network management service system is defined. The company account is used for accessing the system. At least one co operation organization comprising at least one co operation relation may be defined wherein the co operation relation being associated with at least two accounts such as company A and company B of . Business relationship information may be defined based on the co operation relation. Each company may dynamically select systems for business relationship information as illustrated by X in . Definitions for the business relationship information may be dynamically adjusted according to the company account access rights.

The defined business relationship information may comprise research and development R D business relationship information comprising for example at least one of the following 

The defined business relationship information may comprise sales SAL business relationship information comprising for example at least one of the following 

The defined business relationship information may comprise production PRO business relationship information comprising for example at least one of the following 

The defined business relationship information may comprise financial FIN business relationship information comprising for example at least one of the following 

The above mentioned are examples of company functionalities or departments in . and they may include other typical functions like engineering quality marketing sourcing procurement supply chain development projects inbound outbound logistics aftersales services IT management and human resource management.

The business relationship information is maintained in a system server NIP wherein the business relationship information comprising inbound information and outbound information associated to the at least two accounts. Furthermore a set of context centric applications is provided that are accessible for the at least two accounts over a network and configured to operate on the business relationship information associated to the at least two accounts wherein each context centric application configured to generate at least one data entity and dynamically sharing the at least one data entity using at least one context centric application for the at least two accounts.

The network management area comprises information of co operation organizations co operation relations and groups of sub accounts.

The context centric applications area comprises a plurality of context centric applications that can be activated by touching on a touch sensitive display or using a pointing device on a graphical user interface for example.

In an embodiment when selecting an application of a set of context centric applications a list of available data entities may be provided. Based on company account access rights the user is enabled to operate on the business relationship information associated to the accounts of the company business relationships. Each context centric application is configured to generate at least one data entity. Generating at least one data entity comprises generating a new data entity or amending an existing data entity. Furthermore the context centric application may be configured to delete at least one data entity. All business relationship information maintained in the system server as illustrated in are available to the context centric applications . The generated data entity may be made dynamically available using at least one context centric application for any other company account of the business network.

The above mentioned flow chart is exemplary and the steps may take other order depending of the use of the system. For example business relationship information is defined in step e.g. customer and multiple suppliers agree on a common project which will be managed trough the system a set of context centric applications are chosen in step e.g. projects the data entity is shared dynamically in step e.g. data entity is this project and it is shared between customer and multiple suppliers and this business relationship information is maintained in the system in step e.g. this project is maintained in this system where all the parties can access and edit the information . Furthermore it is possible that not all steps realizes in the process e.g. information is not shared even though it is added to the system .

In an embodiment steps may be arranged in different order depending on the implementation. For example steps and may change place with each other.

The general structure of the apparatus comprises a communication interface module a processor coupled to the communication interface module and a memory coupled to the processor . The apparatus further comprises software stored in the memory and operable to be loaded into and executed in the processor . The software may comprise one or more software modules and can be in the form of a computer program product. The apparatus further comprises a user interface controller coupled to the processor .

The communication interface module implements at least part of the user data communication discussed in connection with various embodiments of the present disclosure. The communication interface module may be a wired broadband interface module such as LAN or WAN. The communication interface module may also be e.g. a radio interface module such as a WLAN Bluetooth GSM GPRS CDMA WCDMA or LTE Long Term Evolution radio module. The communication interface module may be integrated into the apparatus or into an adapter card or the like that may be inserted into a suitable slot or port of the apparatus . The communication interface module may support one radio interface technology or a plurality of technologies. shows one communication interface module but the apparatus may comprise a plurality of communication interface modules .

The processor may be e.g. a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a graphics processing unit or the like. shows one processor but the apparatus may comprise a plurality of processors.

The memory may be for example a non volatile or a volatile memory such as a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a random access memory RAM a flash memory a data disk an optical storage a magnetic storage a smart card or the like. The apparatus may comprise a plurality of memories. The memory may be constructed as a part of the apparatus or it may be inserted into a slot port or the like of the apparatus by a user. The memory may serve the sole purpose of storing data or it may be constructed as a part of an apparatus serving other purposes such as processing data.

The user interface controller may comprise circuitry for receiving input from a user of the apparatus e.g. via a keyboard graphical user interface shown on the display of the apparatus speech recognition circuitry or an accessory device such as a headset and for providing output to the user via e.g. a graphical user interface or a loudspeaker.

A skilled person appreciates that in addition to the elements shown in the apparatus may comprise other elements such as microphones displays as well as additional circuitry such as input output I O circuitry memory chips application specific integrated circuits ASIC processing circuitry for specific purposes such as source coding decoding circuitry channel coding decoding circuitry ciphering deciphering circuitry and the like. Additionally the apparatus may comprise a disposable or rechargeable battery not shown for powering the apparatus when external power if external power supply is not available.

The network level information platform NIP of a dynamic business network and data management service system enables transparent and dynamic sharing of information within the business network efficiently and reliably. The network level information platform NIP may comprise co operation information of a particular company such as the company of or company A or B in .

In an embodiment the network level information platform NIP of a company comprises information from a plurality of companies or organizations that the company has a business relationship with. The companies may be customer companies and the companies may be supplier companies for example.

Each company may have internal information systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP Product Data Management system PDM Product Lifecycle Management system PLM and Customer Relationship Management system CRM .

The network level information platform NIP does not need to replace all the existing systems but to provide information sharing for co operation partners in company business relationship network. The existing systems in the companies may still be used for creating and storing some information.

In an embodiment the co operation information may be provided to the network level information platform NIP from the business relationship companies and their internal information systems such as Enterprise Resource Planning system ERP Product Data Management system PDM Product Lifecycle Management system PLM and Customer Relationship Management system CRM using various methods. The information may be provided manually directly integrating a system to the platform by using electronic data interchange EDI or by defining application programming interface API for example.

In an embodiment a plurality of context centric applications are provided by the network level information platform NIP of a dynamic business network and data management service system over a network and configured to operate on business relationship information associated to at least two accounts of companies wherein each context centric application is configured to generate at least one data entity and dynamically sharing the at least one data entity using at least one context centric application for the at least two accounts.

The dynamic business network and data management service system is a non hierarchical system for companies to share and manage information dynamically in their business relationships. In the system a company is a basic unit and information is shared and owned by the companies not by individual persons. Within the system each personal account if any and profile is assigned to a company account. Business relationships are the key elements in sharing information. Shared information is related to a specific business relationship not internally to a specific company. When persons leave companies the information remains creating a history for business relationship. Furthermore the system is a non hierarchical system enabling dynamic information sharing. Every company is the center of its own partner network. Traditionally a supplier might use or have an access to customers own it system. There might have been several same kinds of connections or accesses. In the present system the system is not customers own but the supplier can use the same systems with multiple customers and own suppliers. The system is meant for business network management and dynamic information sharing. Every company manages the portfolio of information whether the information is shared by them or to them. The information is managed through applications that are based on industry specific cross company processes orders claims audits ideas projects etc. 

In an embodiment an account is defined. At least one co operation organization is defined comprising at least one co operation relation e.g. customer company of or in establishes an online business relationship with a supplier company of or in wherein the co operation relation being associated with at least two accounts. Business relationship information e.g. data entities like common development actions contracts ideas offers orders claims etc. is defined based on the co operation relation. The business relationship information is maintained in a system server wherein the business relationship information comprising inbound information e.g. data entities like single contract idea claim etc. created by supplier company in and shared to customer company in and outbound information e.g. data entities like single contract idea claim etc. created by customer company in and shared to supplier company in associated to the at least two accounts. A set of context centric applications may be provided e.g. contracts ideas claims in accessible for the at least two accounts over a network and configured to operate on the business relationship information associated to the at least two accounts wherein each context centric application configured to generate at least one data entity e.g. a single contract idea claim in .

A company can use the same system with all partner companies whether they are vertically in a same supply chain or in co operation horizontally with companies or any other organizations. By using the platform the connections between companies can be created by establishing online business relationships. In these relationships the information can be shared dynamically between one ore multiple companies in non hierarchical way with any amount and any type of partner companies whether they are customers suppliers units from same group or any other organizations . Thus the system provides fast and transparent industrial information sharing to business relationships and faster more user friendly and more efficient way to execute cross company cooperation.

Furthermore group functionality provides a unique way to manage information within a specific business group comprised of one or more group accounts different levels of the group organization and sub accounts different group units like factories in different locations countries under the same group . In this could mean that the group company group account can create internal relations with group units sub accounts and invite them to the same group hosted by the group account. In this way the users of the group account gain access to data entities shared in these sub accounts. And example could include group units e.g. factories in U.S. Canada and Mexico sub accounts and one group account . The users of sub accounts or can see only the data entities e.g. orders shared to the according sub account or . The users of group account typically c level executives can see all the data entities shared to these three sub accounts . For an example if these group units factories have different kind of internal ERP Enterprise Resource Planning systems this could create one view to all the orders made in these different ERP systems by group units sub accounts and shared via this dynamic business network and data management service system regardless what ERP systems are used.

In an embodiment the network level information platform NIP may comprise application programming interface API . For example an order from an ERP system of a customer may be sent automatically via the API to the network level information platform NIP . Supplier s ERP system receives notification of the order and may automatically fetch the order via API . Furthermore order confirmation from the supplier ERP may be sent automatically via the API to the platform and delivered via the API to the customer ERP.

In an embodiment an order from an ERP system of a customer may be sent automatically via the API to the network level information platform NIP . Supplier s ERP system receives notification of the order and may automatically fetch the order via API . Furthermore order confirmation from the supplier ERP may be sent automatically via the API to the platform and delivered via the API to the customer ERP. Thus different API may be used between customers and suppliers when communicating via the platform .

Various embodiments have been presented. It should be appreciated that in this document words comprise include and contain are each used as open ended expressions with no intended exclusivity.

The foregoing description has provided by way of non limiting examples of particular implementations and embodiments a full and informative description of the best mode presently contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the present disclosure. It is however clear to a person skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted to details of the embodiments presented above but that it can be implemented in other embodiments using equivalent means or in different combinations of embodiments without deviating from the characteristics of the invention.

Furthermore some of the features of the above disclosed embodiments of this present disclosure may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features. As such the foregoing description shall be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present disclosure and not in limitation thereof. Hence the scope of the invention is only restricted by the appended patent claims.

