---

title: Unregistered user account generation for content item sharing
abstract: Various embodiments of the present technology involve the sharing of a content item though a synchronized content management system (CMS) without requiring a user to register or provide login credentials. For example, the CMS can receive a request from a first user of a computing device to share a content item with a second user. Instead of requiring the user to register or provide their login credentials, the CMS can generate an unregistered user account using a unique identifier associated with the computing device. Accordingly, in order to share the content item, the CMS can generate a link to retrieve the content item and send the link to the second user. Thus, creation of an unregistered user account can require no login credentials, thereby providing a simple, user friendly interface for initiating interactions with the CMS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344433&OS=09344433&RS=09344433
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09344433
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---
The present technology pertains to sharing media content and more specifically pertains to enabling a user that is not registered with a content management system to share content with other users via the content management system.

Content stored in an online storage account with a synchronized content management system can be accessed on computing devices in a variety of ways such as through a stand alone application one or more application plug ins a web browser etc. Users can thus upload content items such as pictures songs documents etc. from a computing device to their online storage account and later access the content items from different computing devices. A synchronized content management system can also facilitate the sharing of content between users. Users can therefore create a link to a respective content item that can be shared with another user and which the other user can later use to access the content item.

In order to adequately reference retrieve and securely store the content items users are often required to create a user account and maintain login credentials. Requiring users to create a user account and maintain login credentials however may sometimes act as a barrier preventing some users from taking advantage of services offered by a synchronized content management system because such users do not want to take the time to register. At other times a user may find themselves inadvertently logged out of their user account or they may be using a new or foreign computing device and not want to take the time required to login in order to take advantages of the full services provided by the synchronized content management system. Accordingly it could be advantageous to develop a means for enabling users to share content items without requiring a user to register or provide login credential.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

The disclosed technology addresses the need in the art for sharing a content item though a synchronized content management system CMS without requiring a user to register or provide login credentials. For example the CMS can receive a request from a first user of a computing device to share a content item with a second user. The CMS upon receiving the request can determine that the requesting device is either not associated with or not logged into a user account. Instead of requiring the user to register or provide their login credentials the CMS can generate an unregistered user or ghost account using a unique identifier associated with the computing device. For example the unique identifier could be a device ID a phone number if the device is a smartphone an email address or any other available identifier which can be used to uniquely and repeatable identify the computing device. In at least one embodiment the CMS uploads and at least temporarily stores the content item by associating the content item with the unregistered user or ghost account. Accordingly in order to share the content item the CMS can generate a link enabling the later retrieval of the content item that can be sent to the second user. Thus creation of an unregistered user or ghost account can require no login credentials thereby providing a simple user friendly interface for initiating interactions with the CMS.

Further an unregistered user account can be created with one or more built in limitations such as offering the aforementioned sharing services to unregistered users at low volumes or frequencies which can be tracked based on the unique identifier associated with a respective device. For example the CMS can set usage thresholds associated with data volumes send frequency total number of content items sent etc. and monitor usage of these accounts with respect to these thresholds. Accordingly in response to determining a respective usage threshold has been exceeded a user could be a prompted to register with the CMS or login to an existing account to have the threshold usage limit removed. In one example in response to receiving a registration request a user s unregistered user or ghost account could be converted into a registered account. In another example if the user is an existing user and they login to their user account the content items associated with the unregistered user or ghost account can be merged with the user s account by for example changing the device ID to an account ID and therefore associating and storing the content items with the user s account.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The disclosed technology addresses the need in the art for sharing a content item though a synchronized content management system CMS without requiring a user to register or provide login credentials. For example the CMS can receive a request from a first user of a computing device to share a content item with a second user. Instead of requiring the user to register or provide their login credentials the CMS can generate an unregistered user account using a unique identifier associated with the computing device. Accordingly in order to share the content item the CMS can generate a link enabling the later retrieval of the content item and send the link to the second user. Thus creation of an unregistered user account can require no login credentials thereby providing a simple user friendly interface for initiating interactions with the CMS.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

Accordingly shows an example screenshot where a client side application associate with the CMS is integrated with a file system accessible via a word processing program through which content item was created in accordance with at least one embodiment. In other examples the client side application can be integrated through a webpage displayed using a web browser application or may include CMS specific components that can be for example a stand alone application one or more application plug ins and or a browser extension. The user can also interact with the CMS via a third party application such as a web browser that resides on the computing device and is configured to communicate with the CMS.

In this example the user has opened drop down menu either by right clicking or selecting a drop down menu associated with saving and sharing content items for the word processing program. The user has in this example selected the share option which has opened second dropdown menu containing options to share content item with for example another user. Accordingly second drop down menu includes Send via CMS option which the user selects as their desired option for sharing content item . In this example the user could have initially opened drop down menu to save and then email content item to a second user however upon opening drop down menu learned that they could share content item via the CMS.

Accordingly shows an example screenshot of share user interface UI when options button is selected in accordance with at least one embodiment. In this example options button includes options such as Preview Only option enabling the user to share content item without enabling the recipient to download content item Signature option enabling the user to send content item to the recipient in order to obtain the recipient s signature and Secure option enabling the user to password protect content item or set a time after which content item is no longer available for the recipient to view. Various other options can also be provided within the scope of various embodiments.

Accordingly upon the user providing the recipient s information and selecting send button the CMS will receive the user s request. In at least one embodiment the CMS upon receiving the request can determine that computing device is either not associated with or not logged into a user account. Alternatively the CMS may determine this step at an earlier time such as when the user initially selects Send via CMS option . Accordingly instead of requiring the user to register or provide their login credentials the CMS can generate an unregistered user or ghost account using a unique identifier associated with computing device . For example the unique identifier could be a device ID a phone number if the device is a smartphone an email address or any other available identifier which can be used to uniquely and repeatable identify computing device .

In at least one embodiment the CMS uploads and at least temporarily stores content item by associating content item with the unregistered user or ghost account. shows an environment where computing device sends content item through a network to CMS for at least temporary storage. For example CMS may store content item for a fixed amount of time from when content item is uploaded. The fixed amount of time could be strictly fixed based on time unless the user signs into an account or registers with CMS or the fixed amount of time could be reset each time CMS detects or receives some interaction from the user of computing device . Thus even if the user never registers with CMS the user could access their stored content items through an unregistered user account via computing device as long as CMS receives a minimum level of user interaction from computing device to keep the account active.

Accordingly in order to facilitate the share function CMS can generate a link to retrieve content item stored in CMS which is then sent to the recipient via email and made viewable on recipient device . In order to enable the user to share content item with the recipient and other users CMS is in this example configured to create a sharing link that is a custom network address such as a uniform resource locator URL which allows content item to be accessed without authentication. CMS therefore can use the sharing link to identify content item and return it to a requesting user device. For example CMS can include a sharing index that lists each sharing link along with a content path identifying the location of a respective content item associated with a sharing link. CMS can thus use the sharing link received from a requesting client device to search the sharing index and return the content item.

Accordingly shows an example screenshot of recipient device where content item has been sent via a sharing link in accordance with various embodiments. A sharing link can be provided to a user in multiple ways. In some embodiments the sharing link can be visually presented to the user. For example the sharing link can be presented as text on the computing device that the user can copy to an email social networking post etc. to share the content item. Alternatively in some embodiments the sharing link can be stored to a data buffer on a computing device such as a clipboard. The user can thus access the sharing link by using for example a paste function to enter the sharing link into an e mail social networking post etc.

In this example however the user of computing device has chosen to send content item via email . The user of recipient device has opened an email generated by CMS which contains message stating User 100 used CMS to share a file with you and view button that when selected enables the user of computing device to download and view content item . Accordingly shows an example screenshot where view button has been selected and content item is displayed on recipient device . Thus a first user of computing device can send content item via CMS to a second user of recipient device via an unregistered user account with CMS that requires no login credentials.

Further an unregistered user account can be created with one or more built in limitations where such sharing services are provided to unregistered users at low volumes or frequencies which can be tracked based on the unique identifier associated with a respective device. For example CMS can set usage thresholds associated with data volumes send frequency total number of content items sent etc. and monitor usage of these accounts with respect to these thresholds. Accordingly in response to determining a respective usage threshold has been exceeded a user could be a prompted to register with CMS or login to an existing account to have the threshold usage limit removed. In one example in response to receiving a registration request a user s unregistered user or ghost account could be converted into a registered account. In another example if the user is an existing user and they login to their user account the content items associated with the unregistered user or ghost account can be merged with the user s account by for example changing the device ID to an account ID and therefore associating and storing the content items with the user s account.

Accordingly in response to the request the CMS can upload and at least temporarily store the content item . For example the CMS may store the content item for a fixed amount of time from when content item is uploaded e.g. 7 days . The fixed amount of time could be strictly fixed based on time unless the user signs into an account or registers with the CMS or the fixed amount of time could be reset each time the CMS detects or receives some interaction from a user. Further uploaded content items may in some embodiments be retrievable such that a user could store a respective content item with the CMS remove it from their computing device and still be able to access a copy. Alternatively an unregistered user account may only enable a user to share a content item and not retrievable store the content item until the user registers with the CMS or logs into an existing user account. Accordingly upon being uploaded the content item is associated with the unregistered account . Subsequently the CMS can generate a link to share the content item . Once the link is generated the link can be sent to an identified recipient by a means determined by the requesting user .

Accordingly if the user is registered the CMS can receive the user s login credentials . Upon receiving the user s login credentials the content item is associated with the user s account . Since the user has signed into their user account the threshold limit can be removed . If the user is not registered however the CMS can receive registration information for the user . Accordingly having now registered with the CMS the content item can be associated with the user s new account and the threshold limit can be removed to enable the user to utilize all features of the CMS.

Further the CMS can receive a request to associate a second computing device with the user s new account. In response the CMS can provide a client side application for installation on the second computing device. Accordingly the client side application enables the CMS to communicate with each of the user s computing devices through a respective client side application to synchronize data associated with content items stored locally on each of the computing devices with data stored in the CMS.

An exemplary system configuration for enabling access to content of a compressed content item from a variety of computing devices is shown in wherein computing devices communicate via a network for purposes of exchanging content and other data. The system can be configured for use on a wide area network such as that illustrated in . However the present principles are applicable to a wide variety of network configurations that facilitate the intercommunication of electronic devices. For example each of the components of system in can be implemented in a localized or distributed fashion in a network.

In system a user can interact with content management system through computing devices . . . collectively connected to network by direct and or indirect communication. Content management system can support connections from a variety of different computing devices such as desktop computers mobile computers mobile communications devices e.g. mobile phones smart phones tablets smart televisions set top boxes and or any other network enabled computing devices. Computing devices can be of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. Furthermore content management system can concurrently accept connections from and interact with multiple computing devices .

A user can interact with content management system via a client side application installed on computing device . In some embodiments the client side application can include a content management system specific component. For example the component can be a stand alone application one or more application plug ins and or a browser extension. However the user can also interact with content management system via a third party application such as a web browser that resides on computing device and is configured to communicate with content management system . In either case the client side application can present a user interface UI for the user to interact with content management system . For example the user can interact with the content management system via a client side application integrated with the file system or via a webpage displayed using a web browser application.

Content management system can make it possible for a user to store content as well as perform a variety of content management tasks such as retrieve modify browse and or share the content. Furthermore content management system can make it possible for a user to access the content from multiple computing devices . For example computing device can upload content to content management system via network . The content can later be retrieved from content management system using the same computing device or some other computing device .

To facilitate the various content management services a user can create an account with content management system . The account information can be maintained in user account database . User account database can store profile information for registered users. In some cases the only personal information in the user profile can be a username and or email address. However content management system can also be configured to accept additional user information.

User account database can also include account management information such as account type e.g. free or paid usage information e.g. file edit history maximum storage space authorized storage space used content storage locations security settings personal configuration settings content sharing data etc. Account management module can be configured to update and or obtain user account details in user account database . The account management module can be configured to interact with any number of other modules in content management system .

An account can be used to store content such as digital data documents text files audio files video files etc. from one or more computing devices authorized on the account. The content can also include folders of various types with different behaviors or other mechanisms of grouping content items together. For example an account can include a public folder that is accessible to any user. The public folder can be assigned a web accessible address. A link to the web accessible address can be used to access the contents of the public folder. In another example an account can include a photos folder that is intended for photos and that provides specific attributes and actions tailored for photos an audio folder that provides the ability to play back audio files and perform other audio related actions or other special purpose folders. An account can also include shared folders or group folders that are linked with and available to multiple user accounts. The permissions for multiple users may be different for a shared folder.

The content can be stored in content storage . Content storage can be a storage device multiple storage devices or a server. Alternatively content storage can be a cloud storage provider or network storage accessible via one or more communications networks. Content management system can hide the complexity and details from computing devices so that computing devices do not need to know exactly where the content items are being stored by content management system . In one variation content management system can store the content items in the same folder hierarchy as they appear on computing device . However content management system can store the content items in its own order arrangement or hierarchy. Content management system can store the content items in a network accessible storage SAN device in a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID etc. Content storage can store content items using one or more partition types such as FAT FAT32 NTFS EXT2 EXT3 EXT4 ReiserFS BTRFS and so forth.

Content storage can also store metadata describing content items content item types and the relationship of content items to various accounts folders or groups. The metadata for a content item can be stored as part of the content item or can be stored separately. In one variation each content item stored in content storage can be assigned a system wide unique identifier.

Content storage can decrease the amount of storage space required by identifying duplicate files or duplicate segments of files. Instead of storing multiple copies content storage can store a single copy and then use a pointer or other mechanism to link the duplicates to the single copy. Similarly content storage can store files more efficiently as well as provide the ability to undo operations by using a file version control that tracks changes to files different versions of files including diverging version trees and a change history. The change history can include a set of changes that when applied to the original file version produce the changed file version.

Content management system can be configured to support automatic synchronization of content from one or more computing devices . The synchronization can be platform agnostic. That is the content can be synchronized across multiple computing devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. For example computing device can include client software which synchronizes via a synchronization module at content management system content in computing device s file system with the content in an associated user account. In some cases the client software can synchronize any changes to content in a designated folder and its sub folders such as new deleted modified copied or moved files or folders. The client software can be a separate software application can integrate with an existing content management application in the operating system or some combination thereof. In one example of client software that integrates with an existing content management application a user can manipulate content directly in a local folder while a background process monitors the local folder for changes and synchronizes those changes to content management system . Conversely the background process can identify content that has been updated at content management system and synchronize those changes to the local folder. The client software can provide notifications of synchronization operations and can provide indications of content statuses directly within the content management application. Sometimes computing device may not have a network connection available. In this scenario the client software can monitor the linked folder for file changes and queue those changes for later synchronization to content management system when a network connection is available. Similarly a user can manually stop or pause synchronization with content management system .

A user can also view or manipulate content via a web interface generated and served by user interface module . For example the user can navigate in a web browser to a web address provided by content management system . Changes or updates to content in the content storage made through the web interface such as uploading a new version of a file can be propagated back to other computing devices associated with the user s account. For example multiple computing devices each with their own client software can be associated with a single account and files in the account can be synchronized between each of the multiple computing devices .

Content management system can include a communications interface for interfacing with various computing devices and can interact with other content and or service providers . . . collectively via an Application Programming Interface API . Certain software applications can access content storage via an API on behalf of a user. For example a software package such as an app on a smartphone or tablet computing device can programmatically make calls directly to content management system when a user provides credentials to read write create delete share or otherwise manipulate content. Similarly the API can allow users to access all or part of content storage through a web site.

Content management system can also include authenticator module which can verify user credentials security tokens API calls specific computing devices and so forth to ensure only authorized clients and users can access files. Further content management system can include analytics module module that can track and report on aggregate file operations user actions network usage total storage space used as well as other technology usage or business metrics. A privacy and or security policy can prevent unauthorized access to user data stored with content management system .

Content management system can include sharing module for managing sharing content publicly or privately. Sharing content publicly can include making the content item accessible from any computing device in network communication with content management system . Sharing content privately can include linking a content item in content storage with two or more user accounts so that each user account has access to the content item. The sharing can be performed in a platform agnostic manner. That is the content can be shared across multiple computing devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. The content can also be shared across varying types of user accounts.

In some embodiments content management system can include a content item management module for maintaining a content directory. The content directory can identify the location of each content item in content storage . The content directory can include a unique content entry for each content item stored in the content storage.

A content entry can include a content path that can be used to identify the location of the content item in a content management system. For example the content path can include the name of the content item and a folder hierarchy associated with the content item. For example the content path can include a folder or path of folders in which the content item is placed as well as the name of the content item. Content management system can use the content path to present the content items in the appropriate folder hierarchy.

A content entry can also include a content pointer that identifies the location of the content item in content storage . For example the content pointer can include the exact storage address of the content item in memory. In some embodiments the content pointer can point to multiple locations each of which contains a portion of the content item.

In addition to a content path and content pointer a content entry can also include a user account identifier that identifies the user account that has access to the content item. In some embodiments multiple user account identifiers can be associated with a single content entry indicating that the content item has shared access by the multiple user accounts.

To share a content item privately sharing module can be configured to add a user account identifier to the content entry associated with the content item thus granting the added user account access to the content item. Sharing module can also be configured to remove user account identifiers from a content entry to restrict a user account s access to the content item.

To share content publicly sharing module can be configured to generate a custom network address such as a uniform resource locator URL which allows any web browser to access the content in content management system without any authentication. To accomplish this sharing module can be configured to include content identification data in the generated URL which can later be used to properly identify and return the requested content item. For example sharing module can be configured to include the user account identifier and the content path in the generated URL. Upon selection of the URL the content identification data included in the URL can be transmitted to content management system which can use the received content identification data to identify the appropriate content entry and return the content item associated with the content entry.

In addition to generating the URL sharing module can also be configured to record that a URL to the content item has been created. In some embodiments the content entry associated with a content item can include a URL flag indicating whether a URL to the content item has been created. For example the URL flag can be a Boolean value initially set to 0 or false to indicate that a URL to the content item has not been created. Sharing module can be configured to change the value of the flag to 6 or true after generating a URL to the content item.

In some embodiments sharing module can also be configured to deactivate a generated URL. For example each content entry can also include a URL active flag indicating whether the content should be returned in response to a request from the generated URL. For example sharing module can be configured to only return a content item requested by a generated link if the URL active flag is set to 6 or true. Thus access to a content item for which a URL has been generated can be easily restricted by changing the value of the URL active flag. This allows a user to restrict access to the shared content item without having to move the content item or delete the generated URL. Likewise sharing module can reactivate the URL by again changing the value of the URL active flag to 6 or true. A user can thus easily restore access to the content item without the need to generate a new URL.

While content management system is presented with specific components it should be understood by one skilled in the art that the architectural configuration of system is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations with more or less components are also possible.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device can represent any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems can enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface can generally govern and manage the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

Storage device is a non volatile memory and can be a hard disk or other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM and hybrids thereof.

The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device can be connected to the system bus . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function can include the software component stored in a computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function.

Chipset can also interface with one or more communication interfaces that can have different physical interfaces. Such communication interfaces can include interfaces for wired and wireless local area networks for broadband wireless networks as well as personal area networks. Some applications of the methods for generating displaying and using the GUI disclosed herein can include receiving ordered datasets over the physical interface or be generated by the machine itself by processor analyzing data stored in storage or . Further the machine can receive inputs from a user via user interface components and execute appropriate functions such as browsing functions by interpreting these inputs using processor .

It can be appreciated that exemplary systems and can have more than one processor or be part of a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.

For clarity of explanation in some instances the present technology may be presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks comprising devices device components steps or routines in a method embodied in software or combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the computer readable storage devices mediums and memories can include a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like. However when mentioned non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

Methods according to the above described examples can be implemented using computer executable instructions that are stored or otherwise available from computer readable media. Such instructions can comprise for example instructions and data which cause or otherwise configure a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Portions of computer resources used can be accessible over a network. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language firmware or source code. Examples of computer readable media that may be used to store instructions information used and or information created during methods according to described examples include magnetic or optical disks flash memory USB devices provided with non volatile memory networked storage devices and so on.

Devices implementing methods according to these disclosures can comprise hardware firmware and or software and can take any of a variety of form factors. Typical examples of such form factors include laptops smart phones small form factor personal computers personal digital assistants and so on. Functionality described herein also can be embodied in peripherals or add in cards. Such functionality can also be implemented on a circuit board among different chips or different processes executing in a single device by way of further example.

The instructions media for conveying such instructions computing resources for executing them and other structures for supporting such computing resources are means for providing the functions described in these disclosures.

Although a variety of examples and other information was used to explain aspects within the scope of the appended claims no limitation of the claims should be implied based on particular features or arrangements in such examples as one of ordinary skill would be able to use these examples to derive a wide variety of implementations. Further and although some subject matter may have been described in language specific to examples of structural features and or method steps it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to these described features or acts. For example such functionality can be distributed differently or performed in components other than those identified herein. Rather the described features and steps are disclosed as examples of components of systems and methods within the scope of the appended claims.

