---

title: Time division duplex (TDD) uplink downlink (UL-DL) reconfiguration
abstract: Technology for performing a Time Division Duplex (TDD) uplink-downlink (UL-DL) reconfiguration in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is described. An evolved node B (eNB) may identify cluster metrics for a plurality of evolved node Bs (eNBs) in a cell cluster of the HetNet. The plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster may have a backhaul latency within a selected range. The eNB may select a TDD UL-DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster based in part on the cluster metrics. The eNB may transmit the TDD UL-DL configuration index to one or more user equipments (UEs) located within the cell cluster using a downlink control information (DCI) format. The TDD UL-DL configuration index may be transmitted on a Common Search Space (CSS) of a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) on a UE-specific Primary Cell (PCell).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386608&OS=09386608&RS=09386608
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09386608
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140326
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 841 230 filed Jun. 28 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Homogeneous networks or HetNets can use time division duplexing TDD for DL or UL transmissions. Time division duplexing TDD is an application of time division multiplexing TDM to separate downlink and uplink signals. In TDD downlink signals and uplink signals may be carried on a same carrier frequency where the downlink signals use a different time interval from the uplink signals so the downlink signals and the uplink signals do not generate interference for each other. TDM is a type of digital multiplexing in which two or more bit streams or signals such as a downlink or uplink are transferred apparently simultaneously as sub channels in one communication channel but are physically transmitted on different resources.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A dynamic Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL reconfiguration scheme for heterogeneous networks HetNets is described herein. A plurality of evolved node Bs eNBs in a cell cluster may exchange inter eNB messages over an X2 interface. The eNBs in the cell cluster may have a backhaul latency within a selected range. The inter eNB messages may contain cluster metrics associated with the eNBs wherein the cluster metrics may include UL DL configurations being used by eNBs within the cell cluster DL UL resources required by each eNB and or buffer sizes in UL and DL transmission direction and packet delays. An eNB in the cell cluster may select a TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster using the cluster metrics. In other words the eNB may use the inter eNB messages and the cluster metrics within the inter eNB messages to negotiate a unified UL DL configuration in a distributed manner for multiple cells within a cell cluster.

The eNB may transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to at least one user equipment UE located within the cell cluster. The eNB may transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index using a downlink control information DCI format i.e. referred to as DCI format X herein wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is transmitted on a Common Search Space CSS of a physical downlink control channel PDCCH on a UE specific Primary Cell PCell . In addition the eNB may inform the UE via a Uu interface of reconfiguration DCI monitoring subframes using one of a bitmap technique or according to a DCI format X periodicity and subframe offset configuration. As a result the UE configured with UL DL reconfiguration may monitor the DCI format X in a smaller subset of configured DL subframes per duty cycle thereby providing a significant reduction in power consumption at the UE. In addition supporting different UL DL configurations for each individual Transmission Point TP in CoMP scenario may be required when instantaneous UL DL ratio is not correlated within each TP s cell. Therefore DCI format X monitoring subframes for a plurality of TPs in CoMP scenario may be time multiplexed onto different subframes to indicate independent UL DL configuration in use.

Heterogeneous network HetNet deployments can offer efficient means to increase cellular coverage and capacity compared to traditional homogeneous networks and may involve the co existence of different radio access technologies RAT transmission reception techniques and base station BS or node transmission powers amongst other possible architectural combinations. The RAT can include the standard used such as LTE or IEEE 802.16 or the version of the standard such as LTE version 11 3GPP LTE V11.0.0 IEEE 802.16n or IEEE 802.16p. In an example the radio access technology RAT standard can include LTE release 8 9 10 11 or subsequent release. The transmission reception technique can include various transmission techniques such as a downlink DL coordinated multi point CoMP transmission enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC and combinations thereof. A node transmission power can refer to the power generated by a node type such as a macro node e.g. macro evolved Node B eNB in a macro cell and multiple low power nodes LPNs or small eNBs in the respective small cells as illustrated in .

LTE TDD systems may operate synchronously in order to avoid strong DL UL inter cell interference between base stations eNBs and or mobile terminals UEs . The synchronous operation may imply that all cells in a network area use the same UL DL configuration wherein the UL DL configuration may represent a frame configuration and can define an amount of DL and UL resources and is associated with an exclusive UL DL ratio in a radio frame. In addition frame transmission boundaries may be aligned in time.

Although synchronous operation may be effective from an interference mitigation perspective synchronous operation may not be optimal in terms of traffic adaptation and may significantly degrade the perceived packet throughput in small cells. In addition using the same frame configuration in HetNet deployments with many low power nodes distributed over a typical macro cell area may be inefficient from a user experience perspective. The traffic in HetNet deployments may significantly vary over time or cell domains. At a given time instance a particular set of cells may have dominant traffic in one transmission direction i.e. either DL or UL so that additional spectrum resources are required in the dominant traffic direction. In HetNet deployments a level of isolation between eNBs may be higher as compared to a macro cell environment because of the proximity of the small cells to the end users. As a result a relatively large portion of the eNBs may be considered as isolated cells. These isolated cells may modify an UL DL configuration in order to adapt to the instantaneous traffic conditions. On the other hand small cells located relatively close to each other may experience strong coupling on eNB links. The strong coupling may result in DL transmissions in one cell causing interference to the UL reception in neighboring cells.

Cell clustering may be an effective solution for resolving DL UL interference mitigation in small cells. In cell clustering a set of coupled cells may be combined into a cell cluster and joint traffic adaptation may be performed among the small cells. Cell clustering may be efficient when coupled cells are served by the same eNB so that information about traffic conditions from all cells is available to an eNB scheduler. The eNB scheduler may determine an optimal frame configuration on a relatively fast timescale. However the coupled small cells may not be controlled by the same eNB. When the coupled small cells are not controlled by the same eNB coordinating scheduling decisions among cells may become difficult because a centralized solution for the coupled small cells may be unavailable. Dynamic traffic adaptation may be performed by selecting the same UL DL configuration if an adaptation time scale e.g. an UL DL reconfiguration period of 10 milliseconds ms is smaller than a backhaul latency e.g. 40 ms 160 ms as discussed in further detail in 3GPP Technical Report TR TR 36.932. In this case the dynamic UL DL reconfiguration may cause strong DL UL interference at the subframes having opposite transmission directions in neighboring cells.

The backhaul latency may complicate decision making on a frame configuration between coupled eNBs. The backhaul latency may also complicate control of the DL UL interference if there is no coordination among cells. Although the DL UL interference mitigation issue may be resolved by prohibiting traffic adaptation when coupled cells are connected with a backhaul latency exceeding a 10 ms traffic adaptation time scale such an approach may be inefficient from a traffic adaptation perspective. As described in greater detail herein the UL DL reconfiguration time scale may be adjusted to the backhaul latency characteristics. In this case cell clustering may be applied at a lower time scale and the network may avoid situations where one of the cells becomes an aggressor in terms of DL UL interference thereby causing degradation to an UL performance experience.

A number of signaling options have been discussed for enhanced Interference Mitigation and Traffic Adaptation eIMTA including system information block SIB paging radio resource control RRC media access control MAC signaling L signaling and characteristics of different traffic adaptation time scales. The signaling of the UL DL reconfiguration may use explicit L signaling of reconfiguration by UE group common Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel ePDCCH or Physical Downlink Control Channel PDCCH referred to as e PDCCH herein due to lower control overhead. The UE group common e PDCCH may refer to enhanced Control Channel Elements eCCEs or Control Channel Element CCE commonly monitored by groups of UEs for control information. When the e PDCCH is used downlink control information DCI carriers by UE group common e PDCCH may be referred to as common DCI herein.

However using explicit L signaling of reconfiguration by UE group common e PDCCH may result in several potential problems. Higher power consumption may be expected due to additional blind detection attempts performed on UE group common e PDCCH when the UE does not know the existence of common DCI and the size of common DCI is different as compared with existing DCIs. Some mechanisms may be required to be developed to further optimize the power consumption at the UE side and improve the network capability to flexibly configure the UL DL configuration via common DCI transmission subframes according to the cell its own instantaneous cell specific traffic etc.

In addition using the explicit L signaling may not support coordinated multipoint CoMP scenario . In CoMP scenario all transmission points e.g. macro nodes pico nodes remote radio heads and low power nodes within the coverage area of the macro point may share the same physical cell identifier Cell ID . It may be desirable to support independent UL DL configurations for transmission points TPs at different geographical locations in order to maximize throughput performance since an instantaneous traffic status may be different in different TP coverage.

A dynamic UL DL reconfiguration is described herein with configurable and synchronized configuration of duty cycles and subframe offsets. The UL DL reconfiguration may be used in a variety of practical scenarios with different backhaul characteristics. In addition the UL DL reconfiguration may reduce a power consumption level at the UE and enable independent UL DL reconfigurations for different RRHs in CoMP scenario . Therefore the proposed UL DL reconfiguration scheme achieves a power efficient UL DL reconfiguration indication and CoMP scenario support for dynamic TDD UL DL reconfiguration.

The macro nodes can transmit at high power level for example approximately 5 watts W to 40 W to cover the macro cell. The HetNet can be overlaid with low power nodes LPNs which may transmit at substantially lower power levels such as approximately 100 milliwatts mW to 2 W. In an example an available transmission power of the macro node may be at least ten times an available transmission power of the low power node. A LPN can be used in hot spots or hot zones referring to areas with a high wireless traffic load or high volume of actively transmitting wireless devices e.g. user equipments UEs . A LPN can be used in a microcell a picocell a femtocell and or home network. Femto Cell0 illustrates downlink traffic heavy usage by the wireless devices e.g. UEs and Femto Cell1 illustrates uplink traffic heavy usage by the wireless devices.

Allowing adaptive UL DL configurations depending on traffic conditions in different cells can significantly improve the system performance in some examples. illustrates an example where different UL DL configurations can be considered in different cells. Networks e.g. HetNets or homogeneous networks can involve a same carrier or different carriers deployed by a single operator or different operators in the same band and employing either a same or different uplink downlink UL DL configurations. Where possible interference may include adjacent channel interference when different carrier frequencies are used as well as co channel interference when a same carrier frequency is used such as remote node to node interference or BS to BS interference or eNB to eNB interference .

Legacy LTE TDD can support asymmetric UL DL allocations by providing seven different semi statically configured uplink downlink configurations. Table 1 illustrates seven UL DL configurations used in LTE where D represents a downlink subframe S represents a special subframe and U represents an uplink subframe. In an example the special subframe can operate or be treated as a truncated downlink subframe.

As illustrated by Table 1 UL DL configuration can include 6 uplink subframes in subframes and and 4 downlink and special subframes in subframes and and UL DL configuration can include one uplink subframe in subframe and downlink and special subframes in subframes and .

As an underlying requirement in some examples all cells of the network change UL DL TDD configurations synchronously in order to avoid the interference. However such a requirement can constrain the traffic management capabilities in different cells of the network. The legacy LTE TDD set of configurations can provide DL subframe allocations in the range between 40 and 90 as shown in Table 1. The UL and DL subframes allocation within a radio frame can be reconfigured through system information broadcast signaling e.g. system information block SIB . Hence the UL DL allocation once configured can be expected to be changed semi statically.

Predetermined or semi statically configured UL DL configurations may not match the instantaneous traffic situation which can result in inefficient resource utilization especially in cells with a small number of users that download or upload large amounts of data. Adaptive UL DL configurations can be used to handle cell dependent traffic asymmetry and match instantaneous traffic situations but can generate different types of interferences if not taken into consideration. For such time division LTE TD LTE deployments with different UL DL configurations in different cells the new types of interferences due to asymmetric UL DL configurations can include node to node or BS to BS and UE to UE interference which can be mitigated using various mechanisms described herein. The impact of the inter cell UL DL node to node interference can significantly reduce the benefits obtained from the adaptability of UL DL configurations in different cells.

As described herein a dynamic uplink downlink UL DL reconfiguration scheme may include configurable and synchronized duty cycles so that the dynamic UL DL reconfiguration may be used in a variety of practical scenarios with different backhaul characteristics.

Backhaul latency characteristics may be generally known to network operators. The one way backhaul latency in operator controlled networks may be in a range from 5 ms e.g. Fiber Access to 60 ms e.g. DSL technology . Therefore different UL DL reconfiguration periods may be assumed for isolated cells and coupled cells combined into one cluster e.g. two coupled cells . For instance a period of 10 ms 40 ms 80 ms or 160 ms may be assumed for different types of backhaul links that connect coupled eNBs. Therefore multiple reconfiguration periods may be supported. As a result the isolated cells may be configured with the 10 ms adaptation time scale and the cells clusters formed from coupled cells may be configured with a lower higher adaptation time scale. The traffic adaptation time scale in the clusters may depend on multiple factors including a number of cells in the cell cluster and backhaul latency characteristics.

Therefore the TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster may be selected according to a defined periodicity wherein the defined periodicity is based on the backhaul latency of the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster and includes 10 milliseconds ms 20 ms 40 ms and 80 ms. Information about the UL DL reconfiguration period may be communicated to the cells over an X2 interface and pre configured by the network operator.

In order to perform the same distributed decisions on the actual UL DL configuration to be applied over the air a distributed protocol may be used. The cells may exchange information about traffic conditions for each transmission direction among coupled cells in cluster. In other words a TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster may be selected based on cluster metrics wherein the cluster metrics are exchanged between the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster over an X2 interface. As an example a cell cluster may include a first eNB a second eNB and a third eNB. The first eNB may send cluster metrics associated with the first eNB to the second eNB and the third eNB. Similarly the first eNB may receive cluster metrics from the second eNB and the third eNB.

Examples of cluster metrics exchanged between the eNBs may include the DL and UL buffer status combined with the DL and UL packet throughputs. In addition the cells may exchange information regarding the preferred UL DL configuration for the next reconfiguration cycle. This information may be considered as the rough quantized measure of the DL and UL traffic demands.

The LTE legacy set of UL DL configuration supports the following proportion between DL and UL subframes . This set may be extended to cover the whole set of possible proportions by adding . If the preferred UL DL configurations are exchanged over the X2 interface then cells may apply one of the predefined strategies to perform traffic adaptation. For instance each cell may select the UL DL configuration with a minimum number of DL subframes among all received UL DL configurations. Alternatively cells may select DL UL balanced configuration by selecting the average number of DL subframes that can be applied in all cells.

In order to force coupled eNBs to choose the same TDD configuration the following distributed decision at each eNB can be made tddConfigIndex decisionFunction M M . . . MN wherein tddConfigIndex is a chosen UL DL configuration index Mi are cluster metrics exchanged between eNBs in a cell cluster and decisionFunction is an algorithm to decide about the new UL DL configuration. Since the eNBs may receive equal sets of cluster metrics the above algorithm can calculate equal TDD configuration indexes for the eNBs in a cell cluster and thus align transmission directions.

In some examples the cluster metrics exchanged between eNBs in the cell cluster may include but is not limited to UL DL configurations a relative amount of required DL UL resources buffer sizes in UL and DL and packet delays. In addition the decision function described above may choose the TDD configuration which corresponds to a mean of the reported cluster metrics or the chosen TDD configuration may correspond to a maximum or minimum of the reported cluster metrics.

Signaling may be provided to UE terminals in order to support dynamic UL DL reconfiguration with a configurable time scale. In other words the signaling may be for power efficient TDD UL DL reconfiguration indication. The eNB may transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to one or more UEs located within the cell cluster. The signaling may be considered independently from the DL UL interference mitigation scheme described above i.e. cell clustering and applied in order to reduce UE power consumption decrease system overhead improve link adaptation increase reception reliability and provide long term traffic adaptation decisions.

In order to support the UL DL reconfiguration a new downlink control information DCI format called as DCI format X herein may be used for the UL DL reconfiguration indication. The DCI format X may be the DCI format of its corresponding common DCI used for the UL DL reconfiguration indication. The TDD UL DL configuration index may be transmitted on a UE group common Enhanced Physical Downlink Control Channel EPDCCH or Physical Downlink Control Channel PDCCH .

The DCI format X transmission may include a configurable duty cycle and subframe offset design. The configurable DCI format X transmission subframes may offer several advantages such as the UE configured with UL DL re configuration may only monitor the DCI format X in smaller subset of configured DL subframe s per duty cycle thereby providing a significant reduction in power consumption. In addition different DCI format X may be required in order to support CoMP scenario with different UL DL configurations. Therefore as described in further detail below the DCI format X for different remote radio heads RRHs in CoMP scenario may be configured to be time multiplexed onto different subframes to be used to indicate independent UL DL configurations.

In order to reduce a false detection probability and avoid unnecessary blind decoding attempts DCI format X may be transmitted only in subframes which are used for downlink transmission in all legacy UL DL configurations. In other words DCI format X may be allowed to be transmitted on subframe and in each frame. The periodicity of DCI format X may be configurable and represented as a predefined set of possible configurations.

The eNB may inform the UE via a Uu interface of the reconfiguration DCI monitoring subframes using the exemplary table shown in or a bitmap technique. An X bit bitmap may indicate a set of system information block type SIB downlink or special DL S subframes SIB DL S subframes . Starting from a most significant bit MSB to a least significant bit LSB the bitmap corresponds to subframe Xa Xb Xc . . . . The bit 1 may indicate that the UE shall monitor the reconfiguration DCI in the corresponding subframe and the bit 0 may indicate that the UE shall not monitor the reconfiguration DCI in the corresponding subframe.

The periodicity of the reconfiguration signals may include 10 ms 20 ms 40 ms or 80 ms. The UE may monitor the reconfiguration signals in downlink subframes or special subframes according to UL DL configuration indicted in SIB. The UE may be configured to monitor the reconfiguration signals in more than one subframe between two adjacent periodic instances. The detected configuration may be valid for a window where the window has a duration equal to the periodicity of the reconfiguration signals. The UE may assume the same configuration for two or more reconfiguration signals if the two or more reconfiguration signals are detected in subframes within a window of a duration equal to the periodicity of the reconfiguration signals. In addition the UE may not assume the same configuration for reconfiguration signals detected in subframes across different windows.

Since UL DL reconfiguration is particularly beneficial for a typical Enhanced Interference Mitigation Traffic Adaptation eIMTA scenario where a limited number of UEs have traffic to be served the signaling overhead for the UL DL reconfiguration indication may be minimal. When no configuration of DCI format X transmission is received UE may follow a fallback configuration that is either the UL DL configuration indicated in the System Information Block SIB or a latest UL DL configuration indicated by the DCI format X transmission.

As the DCI format X may be required to be received with high reliability e.g. with DCI decoding error probability in the range of 1e 5 and 1e 6 the DCI format X may be transmitted repeatedly within a fixed repetition period e.g. 5 ms or 10 ms . The repetition mechanism may also be used with a configurable DCI format X periodicity and offset with proper configuration selection at the network side.

In some examples it may be difficult to enable a UL DL reconfiguration that is too frequent such as faster than once per 40 ms due to backhaul latency. However the eNB may configure the UE with a 10 ms duty cycle of common DCI transmission in a four repeated DCI transmissions pattern within 40 ms period. As a result the DCI may be transmitted in each radio frame in order to inform the UEs about actual UL DL configurations but UL DL reconfiguration may not change more frequently than a pre configured period which can benefit UEs that are in sleep mode and wake up in the middle of the reconfiguration period.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of an evolved node B eNB operable to perform a Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL reconfiguration in a heterogeneous network HetNet . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to identify cluster metrics for a plurality of evolved node Bs eNBs in a cell cluster of the HetNet wherein the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster have a backhaul latency within a selected range as in . The computer circuitry can be configured to select a TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster based in part on the cluster metrics as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to one or more user equipments UEs located within the cell cluster using a downlink control information DCI format wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is transmitted on a Common Search Space CSS of a physical downlink control channel PDCCH on a UE specific Primary Cell PCell as in block .

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to configure downlink control information DCI monitoring subframes for the one or more UEs in the cell cluster using radio resource control RRC signaling in a UE specific manner. In one example the cluster metrics are exchanged between the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster over an X2 interface the cluster metrics including one or more of UL DL configurations being used by eNBs within the cell cluster DL UL resources required by each eNB buffer sizes in UL and DL transmission direction and packet delays.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to select the TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster based on a minimum mean or maximum of the cluster metrics exchanged between the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster in a distributed manner. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to select the TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster according to a defined periodicity wherein the defined periodicity is based on the backhaul latency of the plurality of eNBs in the cell cluster and includes 10 milliseconds ms 20 ms 40 ms and 80 ms.

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to use a System Frame Number SFN counter to control a radio frame having a SFN mod periodicity of zero wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is applied by eNBs in the cell cluster so that the TDD UL DL configuration is synchronously updated by eNBs within the cell cluster. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to transmit TDD UL DL configuration index information to the one or more UEs in the cell cluster via a Uu interface the TDD UL DL configuration index information being transmitted on a physical downlink control channel PDCCH in one or more of subframe numbers or in each radio frame depending on a UE specific RRC configuration. Furthermore the computer circuitry can be configured to transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to the one or more UEs in the cell cluster according to a predefined periodicity of 10 subframes to 80 subframes and a predefined offset value of 0 subframes to 3 subframes.

In one example the computer circuitry can be further configured to transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to the one or more UEs located in proximity to one or more transmission points TPs in a coordinated multi point COMP scenario wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is transmitted to the one or more UEs according to traffic conditions associated with the one or more TPs. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to the one or more UEs located in proximity to one or more transmission points TPs in a coordinated multi point COMP scenario wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is transmitted to the one or more UEs according to a DL subframes pattern used for downlink channel information DCI repeated transmission monitoring.

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to transmit the TDD UL DL configuration index to the one or more UEs in the cell cluster according to an X bit bitmap indicating a set of system information block type SIB downlink or special DL S subframes wherein the one or more UEs monitor for a downlink channel information DCI transmission from the eNB according to the X bit bitmap wherein X represents a number of bits within a bitmap string in which each bit indicates a particular SIB DL S subframes wherein a bit 1 indicates that the UE shall monitor for a DCI reconfiguration in a corresponding subframe and a bit 0 indicates that the UE shall not monitor for the DCI reconfiguration in the corresponding subframe.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to implement a Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL reconfiguration in a heterogeneous network HetNet . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to indicate a capability of supporting a TDD UL DL reconfiguration functionality to an evolved node B eNB via UE capability reporting as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive a configuration to enable TDD UL DL reconfiguration at the UE as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to receive a TDD UL DL reconfiguration signal from the eNB in a downlink control information DCI message as in block . In addition the computer circuitry can be configured to update a TDD UL DL configuration of the UE based on the TDD UL DL reconfiguration signal transmitted on a physical downlink control channel PDCCH in preconfigured downlink or special DL S subframes by the eNB as in block .

In one example the configuration to enable the TDD UL DL reconfiguration at the UE includes at least one of a UE specific reconfiguration radio network temporary identifier RNTI reconfiguration DCI monitoring subframes configuration information and an indicator index. In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to receive the TDD UL DL reconfiguration signal from the eNB according to a defined periodicity of 10 milliseconds ms 20 ms 40 ms or 80 ms.

In one configuration the computer circuitry can be further configured to monitor for TDD UL DL reconfiguration signals received from the eNB in downlink subframes or special subframes according to a system information block type SIB . In addition the computer circuitry can be further configured to monitor for TDD UL DL reconfiguration signals received from the eNB in more than one subframe between two adjacent periodic instances. Furthermore a detected TDD UL DL configuration at the UE is valid for a window having a duration equal to a defined periodicity of the TDD UL DL reconfiguration signal received from the eNB the defined periodicity including 10 milliseconds ms 20 ms 40 ms or 80 ms.

In one example the UE assumes a same TDD UL DL configuration for two or more TDD UL DL reconfiguration signals received from the eNB when the two or more TDD UL DL reconfiguration signals are detected in subframes within a window of a duration equal to a defined periodicity of the TDD UL DL reconfiguration signals. In addition the UE includes an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides a method for performing a Time Division Duplex TDD uplink downlink UL DL reconfiguration in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of identifying cluster metrics for a plurality of nodes in a cell cluster of the HetNet at a node wherein the plurality of nodes in the cell cluster have a backhaul latency within a selected range as in block . The method can include selecting a TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of nodes in the cell cluster based in part on the cluster metrics as in block . The method can further include transmitting the UL DL configuration index to one or more user equipments UEs located within the cell cluster using a downlink control information DCI format wherein the TDD UL DL configuration index is transmitted on a Common Search Space CSS of a physical downlink control channel PDCCH on a UE specific Primary Cell PCell as in block .

In one configuration the method can further comprise configuring downlink control information DCI monitoring subframes for the one or more UEs in the cell cluster using radio resource control RRC signaling wherein the one or more UEs monitor for the TDD UL DL reconfiguration in downlink subframes according to a system information block type SIB . In addition the method can further comprise selecting the TDD UL DL configuration index for the plurality of nodes in the cell cluster based on a minimum mean or maximum of the cluster metrics wherein the cluster metrics are exchanged between the plurality of nodes in the cell cluster over an X2 interface wherein the cluster metrics include one or more of UL DL configurations DL UL resources buffer sizes in UL and DL and packet delays.

In one configuration the method can further comprise transmitting the TDD UL DL configuration index to the one or more UEs in the cell cluster according to an X bit bitmap indicating a set of system information block type SIB downlink or special DL S subframes wherein the one or more UEs monitor for a downlink channel information DCI transmission from the node according to the X bit bitmap wherein X represents a number of bits within a bitmap string in which each bit indicates a particular SIB DL S subframes wherein a bit 1 indicates that the UE shall monitor for a DCI reconfiguration in a corresponding subframe and a bit 0 indicates that the UE shall not monitor for the DCI reconfiguration in the corresponding subframe. In one example the node is selected from a group consisting of a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

