---

title: Unit test automation for business rules and applications
abstract: There are provided systems and method for unit test automation for business rules and applications. A service provider, such as a payment provider, may wish to integrate software and platforms offered by Pegasystems, Inc., in particular Pega RULES Process (“PRPC), which offers a business process management system. PRPC allows the service provider to create and manage business rules and build business applications and platforms, such as a customer support platform. In order to provide a more flexible and comprehensive automated unit testing mechanism, a Java framework may be utilized that runs test cases in PRPC for the business rules. The Java framework may feed data into test cases and may enable dynamic data to be entered for the test cases. Additionally, the Java framework may allow for editing of data for the PRPC test cases and may allow the test cases to be reused and deleted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606903&OS=09606903&RS=09606903
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09606903
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140804
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 009 071 filed on Jun. 6 2014. The contents of the previously filed application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present application generally relates to unit test automation for business rules and applications and more specifically to a Java framework for a Unit Test Automation tool to run flexible Pegasystems RULES Process Commander PRPC test cases.

A service provider such as a payment provider may wish to integrate Pegasystems Inc. s software and business process management systems platforms. For example Pega RULES Process Commander PRPC is software provided by Pegasystems Inc. for the purpose of business process management solutions and in particular to organize their business rules into one platform. Thus the service provider may organize business processes e.g. corporate governance accounting recruitment technical support etc. into one system that may streamline and simplify the execution of those processes. PRPC consists of two parts the PegaRULES which consists of a business rules engine that executes one or more business rules. Additionally Process Commander consists of layers of pre configured rules for a business and may develop and customize business applications process and platforms using the business rules. However when implementing PRPC into a current businesses systems and software PRPC only offers limited automated unit testing that allow for a developer to test only a few rule types of numerous rule types when building and customizing the business processes of the business. Moreover when a test case is created for implementing a new business rule such as rules to be implemented in a business process the data is statically bound saved to the test case and data cannot be dynamically entered to the automated unit testing mechanism.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

An automated unit testing AUT mechanism may be provided based on a Java framework for PegaRULES Process Commander PRPC . PRPC allows a business to collect their business rules into one platform. Thus business processes may be constructed out of these business rules into business process applications and platforms. However unit test automation may be required to ensure the implementation of the business rules into the business process application and correct execution of the business rules in an application or platform through test data. Unit test automation may expedite the testing by automating the testing instead of manual entry. Thus the AUT mechanism may provide for application testing of business rules that define business applications and or platforms. For example during a financial business process of an application a developer for the application may implement one or more business rules into an application for use by a service provider in the financial business process. Thus in order to test the application the developer may require an AUT mechanism that tests and validates business rules using test data for example by testing for implementation of a business rule in the process application. The AUT mechanism may correspond to a Java framework which is implemented on the step of the PRPC rule type Activity. 

Thus a user may generate or modify a business application platform using business rules within the application platform. The AUT mechanism framework may correspond to an interface or a portal where a user can run test cases for rule types to be implemented in a business process application. The AUT mechanism may provide for reuse of test cases and dynamic data entry in the test cases. For example the AUT mechanism may be constructed to enter rule type name and class information for a rule with data necessary to execute the business rule such as test data information. The AUT mechanism may enable the user to select 10 or more rule types for a rule to be implemented in a business application platform. PRPC may include more than 170 rule types for rules that may be implemented however past testing with PRPC may only provide for 5 rule types. Once the test case is created it may be run to determine if the expected results occur or if there is a failure. Thus a test case may be generated for a particular rule type and name to determine if the entered rule passes and is thus implemented in the application platform or if it fails. The AUT mechanism may further enable the user to change test data dynamically and or after the test case has been executed. Test data normally used in testing a PRPC rule in an application is static. However using the AUT mechanism data may be entered dynamically and changed enabling a test to be rerun with different data after editing the test data. This allows for multiple paths of a business rule to be tested. Thus the AUT mechanism provides for testing business rules to be utilized by PRPC to build business process applications using dynamically generated and entered data.

The AUT mechanism may determine a reason for failure and present the reason to the user. The user may also make assertions of expected test results when using the test data with the asserted rule type for the business rule in the business application platform. The user may then view actual test results compared to expected test results to determine whether the business rule has passed or failed the test. The results using the test data may be viewed by the user. The test results may also be deleted by the AUT mechanism to prevent data breaches and loss of confidentiality of test data and test results. The user may also schedule tests using dynamic test data so that developed business rules for business applications platforms may be automated and continuously integrated into a business s system. Test suites may be generated having multiple tests of at least one business rule developed in PRPC. Thus the tests may be run in processes of the service provider and may be auto scheduled to ensure integration of PRPC built and or modified business rules.

System includes a user a user device and a test website server in communication over a network . User such as a developer or a test executor of a business process application may utilize user device to access a portal for unit test automation for PRPC rules in a business process. In certain embodiments test website server may receive test data such as a test case and or test suite of tests having test data for use with a business application platform and or process implementing at least one business rule. Additionally test website server may execute the test case to determine if the business rule may be implemented in the business process application or if there is a failure to of the business rule using the test data.

User device and test website server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with version control system and or test website server . For example user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may be utilized.

User device of contains a browser application other applications a database and a network interface component . Browser application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments user device may include additional or different software as required.

Browser application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit a user to access test website server . In one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet for example accessing a website. Browser application may be configured to transmit and receive data over network including receiving webpages and webpage portals displaying the webpages portals to user and transmitting user input corresponding to the webpages portals. In this regard browser application may display an accessible portal for automated unit test of PRPC rules in PRPC processes. Browser application may receive user input from user corresponding to the portal and transmit the input to test website server .

User may utilize browser application to enter business rules to test website server. However in other embodiments another developer may enter the business rules to test website server for testing and use by user . The business rules may be utilized to develop a business process such as an application and or platform used by a business including a customer service platform. During testing of the business process such as integration of one or more business rules into the business process user may be required to run test cases using test data on the business rules. Test cases may test one or more branches of the business rule for use in the business process to determine if the branch es are running correctly thus pass or fail using the test data. A business rule may include a single business rule e.g. an assertion for a business practice or a collection of business rules e.g. a business rule set for multiple assertions during a business practice. In normal development of a PRPC application platform through business rules without using a unit test automation framework provided by test website server the test data is statically bound to the test case an cannot be changed. Moreover user may only select from 5 rule types for the test case. Thus test website server provides a unit test automation application to allow for dynamic entry of data into a test case development of test suites offering a plurality of test cases with dynamic data and selection of further rule types as will be explained in more details herein.

Thus in various embodiments the user input by user may correspond to a test case for one of created selected or customized business rule to be implemented in a business process application. For example a test case may include to a set of conditions and variables i.e. test data which may determine if a business rule for implementation into a business process application or platform is working as it was established and coded to do i.e. if the business rule is properly being executed . The test case may therefore include a selected rule type name class and or release number e.g. version with clipboard information and parameter information to determine if the rule may be properly integrated into the application. The rule type may correspond to a selected type of business rule used for testing the test case data e.g. the clipboard information and parameter information. User may select the rule type and enter the clipboard and parameter information for running the test case. User may further select to add the test case to a test suite. One or more test cases may be organized into a test suite for execution of all the test cases. Thus a collection of test cases that each test a business rule in an application may be tested at once using the test suite. The automated unit testing AUT mechanism framework may then execute the test case and dynamically feed in data to generate test results as will be explained in more detail herein.

Thus the test case may include test data for execution using the business rule in the business process application. User may enter this input to test website server using browser application . Additionally user may make test result assertions using the AUT mechanism. Test result assertions may correspond to expected test results of the test data using the selected rule type and business rule with the test data. Once the test case s are completed user may view the test results using browser application including whether there was a failure in the application or a failure in implementing the business rule and what the failure was or what the failure was caused by. User may further view the expected test results compared to the actual test results to see if the test passed or failed the expected results.

User device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network including for establishment receipt and or verification of encrypted data keys used by test website server . Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

User device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by test website server to identify user and or user device with a test case and or test suite executed by test website server . Database may further include test data for use in a test case which may be transferred to test website server . In various embodiments database may include expected and or actual test results for an execute test case test suite. However the expected and or actual test results may be deleted after execution of a test case by one or more of user device and test website server to prevent loss of data confidentiality in the event of a data breach.

In various embodiments user device includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate with test website server over network . In various embodiments network interface component may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices.

Test website server may be maintained for example by an entity establishing automated unit testing for Pegasystems PRPC applications and platforms including integration of business rules in business processes developed using PRPC. Thus test website server may include features and processes to develop PRPC applications platforms or may receive the applications platforms from another development entity. In various embodiments test website server may create manage and or integrate one or more business rules for use in business processes such as PRPC applications platforms. In this regard test website server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with user device to facilitate the testing and implementation of business rules for use in a PRPC application platform using test data. Test website server may include a business process application that wishes to implement one or more business rules into the business process application. Thus test website server may be maintained by any entity wishing to perform PRPC integration.

Test website server of includes a business processes applications a PRPC application a unit test automation application other applications a database and a network interface component . Business processes applications PRPC application unit test automation application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments test website server may include additional or different software as required.

Business processes applications may implement one or more business rules into a business process that corresponds to a collection of activities or tasks for a business. For example business rules may implement a business strategy so that the strategy can be executed. Business rules may therefore describe the business practices of a business. Thus business processes applications may implement one or more business processes such as customer service financing accounting marketing sales management structure etc. Business processes applications may therefore organize the business processes into a workflow so that they may be implemented by the business. When new business rules are added to business processes applications the new business rules should be tested and determined if the business rules can be implemented within business processes applications . For example a new business rule to business processes applications may correspond to a new rule or rule set for customer service financing sales etc.

Business processes and or business rules to be implemented into business processes applications may correspond to Pegasystems Inc. s PegaRULES Process Commander PRPC generated software that collects and implements business rules for a business into one platform and enables the business to create streamline automate and document their business processes. PRPC enables a business to create manage and or implement business rules which may be used to design workflows using the business rules into a business process for implementation as or into a business application or platform. Thus PRPC may enable the formation of one or more business processes applications . In other embodiments PRPC may be utilized to change expand and or incorporate one or more business rules into existing business applications and or platforms. Therefore business processes applications may be created and or changed by user using PRPC application . Additionally user may utilize unit test automation to test business processes application using test data for example by testing business rules for use in business processes application . Customer staff members management and affiliates e.g. clients vendors etc. of a business corresponding to test website server may utilize business processes application to view manage and execute business processes for the business.

PRPC application may correspond to business process management platform that may align the business processes of an organization to the wants and needs of clients staff members management etc. Thus PRPC application may receive and collect the business rules for a business generate business processes using workflows of business rules and create and manage business applications or platforms using the business processes. PRPC application may include PegaRULES engine that executes the business rules in a runtime production environment. Thus PegaRULES engine may correspond to software that defines the business rules of the business including verification of the business rules definition and well as defining relationships between rules. PegaRULES may provide business rules for a business or may be utilized to create and manage business rules for a business. In this regard PegaRULES enables a business to create business rules for use in a workflow to define some business process that may be added to an existing business application platform or used to generate a business application platform. Thus PegaRULES provides for a business rules engine BRE for use in managing business rules for a business.

PRPC application may further include a Process Commander that provides some base level platform of preconfigured rules that may be utilized as a foundation to later perform development and customization of business processes from the business rules provided created and or managed using the PegaRULES engine. Process Commander of PRPC application may be utilized to generate new business processes applications and or platform such as those included in business processes applications . Process Commander PRPC application may also be used to integrate and or update business processes application using business rules of PRPC application . In various embodiments Process Commander may build business processes using the business rules of PRPC application . The business processes may be used in existing business applications platforms or for generating new business applications platforms. In this regard Process Commander provides for utilizing the BRE of PRPC with business process management BPM to manage the business processes of a business.

Unit test automation application may correspond to an application configured to test business rules for incorporation into business processes generated using PRPC application . For example a developer may utilize PRPC application to generate one or more business rules for business processes applications . However when implementing business rules from PRPC application to business processes applications automated unit testing AUT may be required to execute test cases for a business rule to be implemented and test data such as conditions or variables for the business rule when implemented into business processes application . A test case may determine if the business rule is properly implemented. Thus a test case may correspond to a test to determine whether various sections of code for business processes application that implement a business rule are behaving properly e.g. if the code for the business rule is functioning properly and as expected .

Unit test automation application may utilize a Java framework that operates on PRPC application . In particular unit test automation application may run from the PRPC rule type Activity and provide for entering a business rule and test data. When entering the business rule user may select a business rule type a rule name a rule class and a version number for the rule e.g. selection of the coded business rule . Thus unit test automation application may allow for test case creation including naming and identifying the business rule. Once a business rule is entered test data may be entered to the test case. Test data may comprise clipboard information and parameter information entered by user . Unit test automation application may dynamically enter the test data so that data may be changed after initial entry and when running the test case. For example test data may be received dynamically from user device and or another source and the test may be executed using the dynamic test data. Thus when running a test case from the Java framework data may be fed into the test case while running the business rule of the selected rule types and a comparison to expected results may be determined. Data may be dynamically generated and fed into the test case for example as the data becomes available and or asynchronously changed and updated. Thus unit test automation application may enable dynamic test data to be used in a test case. Unit test automation application may edit the data used for PRPC test cases such as after a test case has been executed so that another test case may be executed using the same business rule in a business process application however with new parameters and or test data. Moreover unit test automation application may allow for multiple test cases to be run and or scheduled such as a test suite having a plurality of test cases that have been executed or for execution. The test suite may allow for automatic scheduling of test cases e.g. when to execute a test case and with what test data . Thus unit test automation application allows for continuous integration of PRPC application created business rules and PRPC application built business processes applications and or platform by scheduling execution of test cases and managing test suites having multiple test cases.

Additionally unit test automation application may include an assertion mechanism that enables a developer to make test result assertions. The assertion mechanism allows the developer to enter expected test results after execution of a test case. The expected test results may include an expected result from executing the test data on one or more business rules e.g. a business rule or a business rule set . Additionally unit test automation application may allow for receiving and viewing test results. The actual received test results may be compared to the expected test results to determine if the test case passed of failed e.g. if the business rule is properly coded or executing properly using the test data . Unit test automation application may further delete test data after execution of a test case to prevent the release of test data in the event of a data breach. Moreover user may delete test cases and or test suites using unit test automation application .

In various embodiments test website server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to test website server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally test website server includes database . Identifiers for users developers and or businesses may be stored to database . Database may include business rules business processes and or applications platforms for use by a business. Information in database may be utilized to determine business rules such as through business rules definitions. Thus database may be used to create define and or modify business rules for use in developing business processes applications and or Platforms. Additionally information in database may be utilized to construct business process such as through the implementation of business rules and determine or modify applications platforms to implement the business processes.

In various embodiments test website server includes at least one network interface component NIC adapted to communicate user device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

User device includes a browser application and a database corresponding generally to the described features functions and processes of browser application and database respectively of . In this regard browser application includes unit test automation portal displaying an AUT portal for an AUT mechanism framework offered by test website server for use with business rule implementation of PRPC rules. Unit test automation portal may correspond to a website or other accessible portal where a user not shown of user device may execute test cases and test suites for testing PRPC code e.g. business rules created modified or otherwise managed using a PRPC application . Unit test automation portal may also be utilized to test rule sets and or implementation of business rules in business processes. Thus user device further includes database having test data and test results . Test data may correspond to clipboard data information submitted to test website server for use in a test case by the AUT mechanism framework. Moreover test data may include parameters for the test case. User device may receive test results which may be displayed to the user and stored to database . User device may also delete test data and test results after execution of a test case suite and viewing test results to prevent loss of confidentiality of test data and or test results .

Test website server includes a PRPC application and a unit test automation application corresponding generally to the described features functions and processes of PRPC application and unit test automation application respectively of . PRPC application includes various processes information and features to generate and manage business rules processes applications and platforms. In this regard PRPC application includes rules test suite and business application creation process . Rules may correspond to a set of predetermined created and or modified rules used by Pegasystems PRPC platform e.g. PRPC application to determine workflows for a business processes generated software processes and create or modify business applications and or platform using the software processes.

Thus the user of user device may enter or modify rules and wish to test the rules for proper coding and results. Thus PRPC application includes test suite for testing of rules to be implemented in a business process. In other embodiments test suite may correspond to a single test case. Test suite includes a rules test data having test parameters and test results . As previously discussed rule may correspond to a business rule for testing using test data . Rule may correspond to a designated rule having a rule type name and or class. Rule may also have a version number corresponding to the release number or series for rule . Test data for use with rule may include test data received from user device and or another entity for use with testing rule . As previously discussed test data may be dynamic e.g. changing and or updated and may be fed into unit test automation application dynamically and during execution of a test case. However as PRPC application may normally statically bind test data to a test case test data may not appear as dynamic data during execution of test suite to PRPC application . Test data include test parameters such as clipboard values data and or information and parameters used to execute a test case on rule . Test parameters may include the information necessary to determine if rule is properly coded and implemented for use in a business process. Thus test data and test parameters may be used to generate test results . Test results may include the results from executing test data on rule such as whether the rule passed or failed e.g. is properly coded and may be utilized to determine if rule is behaving properly e.g. giving the expected result . Business application creation process may then be utilized by a user to generate business processes and create or modify business applications and or platforms with the business processes. In this regard business application creation process may access and utilize one or more of rules to create the business processing using a workflow of business rules mapped by the user.

Unit test automation application may be utilized to enter the test case suite to PRPC application . Thus unit test automation application includes a Java framework dynamic data and searchable results . Java framework may correspond to a framework or mechanism that may be used to execute automated unit tests on rule of PRPC application . Java framework may receive a selection of rule to execute a test case with e.g. rule name class and or version number. Java framework may also receive a selection of a rule type which may correspond to one of the more than 170 PRPC rule types. Java framework may allow for the selection and entry of dynamic data such as clipboard information and parameter information. Dynamic data may be edited and may be fed in dynamically from one or more sources. This allows for flexible testing of rule using dynamic data such as testing for more than one branch of rules . For example dynamic data may allow for testing of both a yes and no response to rule e.g. a set of declarative rules having two separate courses of action allowing a developer to view test results for two conditional paths of a set of declarative rules. Java framework may also include options to enter expected test results. Thus searchable results may include test results with expected test results in a searchable form so that a user of user device may browse results of a test case and or test suite to determine the integration of rule .

An automated unit testing mechanism is accessed for a business application at step . The automated unit testing mechanism may be utilized to test a business rule for use in the business application. The business rule may be created and or modified using a business application creation process engine application or platform such as Pegasystems PRPC. The automated unit testing mechanism may comprise a Java API configured to communicate with PRPC or the business application creation process. Additionally prior to accessing the automated unit testing framework a platform such as the business application may be accessed wherein the platform is generated by at least one user e.g. a developer using the business application creation process. The platform business application may correspond to a customer service or support application platform for use with a business.

At step test data for testing a business rule in the business application is received. The test data may be received from a user device and may be accessed from a memory of a server. The test data may comprise dynamic test data entered by a user of the user device another user utilizing another user device and or another server. The dynamic test data may change at least one of a test parameter and a clipboard value in the test data. Thus second test data may be received which may dynamically edit the original test data to generate dynamic test data.

The automated unit testing mechanism is executed using the test data on the business rule in the business application at step . The automated unit testing framework may be executed automatically using the test data according to a schedule. In various embodiments a test suite may include the test data for testing the business rule and may be dynamically received. Thus the test data and test cases in the test suite may be executed automatically such as according to the schedule. Test results may be received from executing the automated unit testing framework using the test data with the business rule. Moreover an assertion tool may be used to assert expected test results wherein the received test results are compared to the expected test results. Once the test results are received the test data and or the test results may be deleted.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

