---

title: Heteroaryl pyridone and aza-pyridone compounds with electrophilic functionality
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09260415&OS=09260415&RS=09260415
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09260415
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141204
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 912 147 filed on 5 Dec. 2013 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds for treating disorders mediated by Bruton s Tyrosine Kinase Btk including inflammation immunological and cancer and more specifically to compounds which inhibit Btk activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Protein kinases the largest family of human enzymes encompass well over 500 proteins. Bruton s Tyrosine Kinase Btk is a member of the Tec family of tyrosine kinases and is a regulator of early B cell development as well as mature B cell activation signaling and survival.

B cell signaling through the B cell receptor BCR can lead to a wide range of biological outputs which in turn depend on the developmental stage of the B cell. The magnitude and duration of BCR signals must be precisely regulated. Aberrant BCR mediated signaling can cause disregulated B cell activation and or the formation of pathogenic auto antibodies leading to multiple autoimmune and or inflammatory diseases. Mutation of Btk in humans results in X linked agammaglobulinaemia XLA . This disease is associated with the impaired maturation of B cells diminished immunoglobulin production compromised T cell independent immune responses and marked attenuation of the sustained calcium sign upon BCR stimulation. Evidence for the role of Btk in allergic disorders and or autoimmune disease and or inflammatory disease has been established in Btk deficient mouse models. For example in standard murine preclinical models of systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Btk deficiency has been shown to result in a marked amelioration of disease progression. Moreover Btk deficient mice can also be resistant to developing collagen induced arthritis and can be less susceptible to induced arthritis. A large body of evidence supports the role of B cells and the humoral immune system in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and or inflammatory diseases. Protein based therapeutics such as Rituxan Genentech Biogen Idec developed to deplete B cells represent an approach to the treatment of a number of autoimmune and or inflammatory diseases. Because of Btk s role in B cell activation inhibitors of Btk can be useful as inhibitors of B cell mediated pathogenic activity such as autoantibody production . Btk is also expressed in osteoclasts mast cells and monocytes and has been shown to be important for the function of these cells. For example Btk deficiency in mice is associated with impaired IgE mediated mast cell activation marked diminution of TNF alpha and other inflammatory cytokine release and Btk deficiency in humans is associated with greatly reduced TNF alpha production by activated monocytes.

Thus inhibition of Btk activity can be useful for the treatment of allergic disorders and or autoimmune and or inflammatory diseases such as SLE rheumatoid arthritis multiple vasculitides idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP myasthenia gravis allergic rhinitis and asthma Di Paolo et al 2011 Nature Chem. Biol. 7 1 41 50 Liu 2011 Drug Metab. and Disposition 39 10 1840 1849 Liu et al 2011 Jour. of Pharm. and Exper. Ther. 338 1 154 163 Lou et al 2012 J. Med. Chem. 55 10 4539 4550 Farooqui et al 2013 Expert Opinion on Orphan Drugs Volume 1 Issue 11 925 933 . In addition Btk has been reported to play a role in apoptosis thus inhibition of Btk activity can be useful for cancer as well as the treatment of B cell lymphoma leukemia and other hematological malignancies U.S. Pat. No. 7 514 444 . Given the role of Btk in osteoclast function the inhibition of Btk activity can be useful for the treatment of bone disorders such as osteoporosis. Specific Btk inhibitors have been reported U.S. Pat. No. 7 884 108 WO 2010 056875 U.S. Pat. No. 7 405 295 U.S. Pat. No. 7 393 848 WO 2006 053121 U.S. Pat. No. 7 947 835 US 2008 0139557 U.S. Pat. No. 7 838 523 US 2012 0040949 US 2012 0295885 US 2013 0045965 U.S. Pat. No. 7 683 064 U.S. Pat. No. 7 902 194 U.S. Pat. No. 7 906 509 U.S. Pat. No. 8 124 604 US 2008 0125417 US 2011 0118233 WO2011 140488 US 2012 0010191 WO2013 067274 US 2013 0116235 WO2013 067277 US 2013 0116245 WO2013 067260 US 2013 0116262 WO2013 067264 US 2013 0116246.

Irreversible inhibitors provide potent and selective inhibition of tyrosine kinase enzymes and may overcome the tumor resistance encountered with reversible tyrosine kinase inhibitors Carmi et al 2012 Biochem. Pharmacol. 84 11 1388 1399 . The perceived advantages of irreversible target binding by covalent bond formation of inhibitor with target are efficacy ability to overcome competition and within class selectivity. Intrinsic liabilities include target and mutation dependent responses and toxicity. Irreversible inhibitors inactivate their protein target through covalent interaction with a nucleophilic cysteine residue within the nucleotide binding pocket of the kinase domain. Different irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitors directed against epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR Bruton s tyrosine kinase Btk vascular endothelial growth factor receptor VEGFR and fibroblast growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase FGFR have been developed and some of them have been employed clinically as anticancer agents

Compounds that form covalent bonds with Btk have been reported U.S. Pat. No. 7 514 444 U.S. Pat. No. 8 088 781 including ibrutinib IMBRUVICA Pharmacyclics Sunnyvale Calif. Janssen Biotech Inc. Raritan N.J. which has been approved by the FDA to treat patients with B cell malignancy mantle cell lymphoma MCL . Ibrutinib has also demonstrated clinical efficacy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL and small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL . Also PF 112 Pfizer Inc. is a covalent reversible inhibitor of Btk being developed for the treatment of autoimmune and inflammatory disease.

The invention relates generally to heteroaryl pyridone and aza pyridone amide compounds with electrophilic functionality and Bruton s Tyrosine Kinase Btk modulating activity having the Formula I structure 

including stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The various substituents are defined herein.

Another aspect of the invention is a Formula I compound selective for binding to Btk and tyrosine kinases having a cysteine residue in an amino acid sequence position of the tyrosine kinase that is homologous to the amino acid sequence position of cysteine 481 in Btk.

In one embodiment a Formula I compound selectively and irreversibly inhibits an activated form of its target tyrosine kinase e.g. a phosphorylated form of the tyrosine kinase . For example activated Btk is transphosphorylated at tyrosine 551. Thus in these embodiments the irreversible Btk inhibitor inhibits the target kinase in cells only once the target kinase is activated by the signaling events.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprised of a Formula I compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise a second therapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the invention is a process for making a pharmaceutical composition which comprises combining a Formula I compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of treating a disease or disorder which method comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I compound to a patient with a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by Bruton s tyrosine kinase.

The invention includes a kit for treating a condition mediated by Bruton s tyrosine kinase comprising a a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I compound and b instructions for use.

The invention includes a Formula I compound for use in combination with an additional therapeutic agent in treating a disease or disorder.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The nomenclature used in this Application is based on IUPAC systematic nomenclature unless indicated otherwise.

Definition of standard chemistry terms may be found in reference works including McMurry ORGANIC CHEMISTRY Fifth ED. 2000 Brooks Cole Pacific Grove.

When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more refers to the range from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen up to replacement of all hydrogen atoms by substituents. The term substituent denotes an atom or a group of atoms replacing a hydrogen atom on the parent molecule. The term substituted denotes that a specified group bears one or more substituents. Where any group may carry multiple substituents and a variety of possible substituents is provided the substituents are independently selected and need not to be the same. The term unsubstituted means that the specified group bears no substituents. The term optionally substituted means that the specified group is unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents independently chosen from the group of possible substituents. When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more means from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen atom up to replacement of all hydrogen atoms by substituents.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkylene radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkylene groups include but are not limited to methylene CH ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkenylene refers to linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenylene or vinylene CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term alkynylene refers to a linear or branched divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynylene C C propynylene propargylene CHC C and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like. Carbocyclyl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Arylene means a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of two hydrogen atom from a two carbon atoms of a parent aromatic ring system. Some arylene groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Arylene includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical arylene groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenylene substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenylene indenylene indanylene 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Arylene groups are optionally substituted with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin N.Y. 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to morpholin 4 yl piperidin 1 yl piperazinyl piperazin 4 yl 2 one piperazin 4 yl 3 one pyrrolidin 1 yl thiomorpholin 4 yl S dioxothiomorpholin 4 yl azocan 1 yl azetidin 1 yl octahydropyrido 1 2 a pyrazin 2 yl 1 4 diazepan 1 yl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term Michael acceptor moiety refers to a functional group that can participate in a Michael reaction wherein a new covalent bond is formed between a portion of the Michael acceptor moiety and the donor moiety. The Michael acceptor moiety is an electrophile and the donor moiety is a nucleophile. The Q groups presented in Formula I compounds are non limiting examples of Michael acceptor moieties.

The term nucleophile or nucleophilic refers to an electron rich compound or moiety thereof. An example of a nucleophile includes but in no way is limited to a cysteine residue of a molecule such as for example Cys 481 of Btk.

The term electrophile or electrophilic refers to an electron poor or electron deficient molecule or moiety thereof. Examples of electrophiles include but in no way are limited to Michael acceptor moieties such as unsaturated acyl functional groups such as acrylamides acrylate esters unsaturated ketones acrylonitriles and unsaturated nitros.

The term irreversible inhibitor means a targeted compound which forms a stable covalent bond through a reactive functional group and directly linked to a recognition portion of the target. Irreversible inhibitors of Btk may inactivate their Btk target through covalent interaction with a nucleophilic cysteine residue within the nucleotide binding pocket of the kinase domain of Btk.

The terms treat and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment wherein the object is to slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of arthritis or cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those with the condition or disorder.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

 Inflammatory disorder as used herein can refer to any disease disorder or syndrome in which an excessive or unregulated inflammatory response leads to excessive inflammatory symptoms host tissue damage or loss of tissue function. Inflammatory disorder also refers to a pathological state mediated by influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis.

 Inflammation as used herein refers to a localized protective response elicited by injury or destruction of tissues which serves to destroy dilute or wall off sequester both the injurious agent and the injured tissue. Inflammation is notably associated with influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis. Inflammation can result from infection with pathogenic organisms and viruses and from noninfectious means such as trauma or reperfusion following myocardial infarction or stroke immune response to foreign antigen and autoimmune responses. Accordingly inflammatory disorders amenable to treatment with Formula I compounds encompass disorders associated with reactions of the specific defense system as well as with reactions of the nonspecific defense system.

 Specific defense system refers to the component of the immune system that reacts to the presence of specific antigens. Examples of inflammation resulting from a response of the specific defense system include the classical response to foreign antigens autoimmune diseases and delayed type hypersensitivity response mediated by T cells. Chronic inflammatory diseases the rejection of solid transplanted tissue and organs e.g. kidney and bone marrow transplants and graft versus host disease GVHD are further examples of inflammatory reactions of the specific defense system.

The term nonspecific defense system as used herein refers to inflammatory disorders that are mediated by leukocytes that are incapable of immunological memory e.g. granulocytes and macrophages . Examples of inflammation that result at least in part from a reaction of the nonspecific defense system include inflammation associated with conditions such as adult acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS or multiple organ injury syndromes reperfusion injury acute glomerulonephritis reactive arthritis dermatoses with acute inflammatory components acute purulent meningitis or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders such as stroke thermal injury inflammatory bowel disease granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity.

 Autoimmune disease as used herein refers to any group of disorders in which tissue injury is associated with humoral or cell mediated responses to the body s own constituents.

 Allergic disease as used herein refers to any symptoms tissue damage or loss of tissue function resulting from allergy. Arthritic disease as used herein refers to any disease that is characterized by inflammatory lesions of the joints attributable to a variety of etiologies. Dermatitis as used herein refers to any of a large family of diseases of the skin that are characterized by inflammation of the skin attributable to a variety of etiologies. Transplant rejection as used herein refers to any immune reaction directed against grafted tissue such as organs or cells e.g. bone marrow characterized by a loss of function of the grafted and surrounding tissues pain swelling leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia. The therapeutic methods of the present invention include methods for the treatment of disorders associated with inflammatory cell activation.

 Inflammatory cell activation refers to the induction by a stimulus including but not limited to cytokines antigens or auto antibodies of a proliferative cellular response the production of soluble mediators including but not limited to cytokines oxygen radicals enzymes prostanoids or vasoactive amines or cell surface expression of new or increased numbers of mediators including but not limited to major histocompatibility antigens or cell adhesion molecules in inflammatory cells including but not limited to monocytes macrophages T lymphocytes B lymphocytes granulocytes i.e. polymorphonuclear leukocytes such as neutrophils basophils and eosinophils mast cells dendritic cells Langerhans cells and endothelial cells . It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the activation of one or a combination of these phenotypes in these cells can contribute to the initiation perpetuation or exacerbation of an inflammatory disorder.

The term NSAID is an acronym for non steroidal anti inflammatory drug and is a therapeutic agent with analgesic antipyretic lowering an elevated body temperature and relieving pain without impairing consciousness and in higher doses with anti inflammatory effects reducing inflammation . The term non steroidal is used to distinguish these drugs from steroids which among a broad range of other effects have a similar eicosanoid depressing anti inflammatory action. As analgesics NSAIDs are unusual in that they are non narcotic. NSAIDs include aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen. NSAIDs are usually indicated for the treatment of acute or chronic conditions where pain and inflammation are present. NSAIDs are generally indicated for the symptomatic relief of the following conditions rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis inflammatory arthropathies e.g. ankylosing spondylitis psoriatic arthritis Reiter s syndrome acute gout dysmenorrhoea metastatic bone pain headache and migraine postoperative pain mild to moderate pain due to inflammation and tissue injury pyrexia ileus and renal colic. Most NSAIDs act as non selective inhibitors of the enzyme cyclooxygenase inhibiting both the cyclooxygenase 1 COX 1 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 isoenzymes. Cyclooxygenase catalyzes the formation of prostaglandins and thromboxane from arachidonic acid itself derived from the cellular phospholipid bilayer by phospholipase A . Prostaglandins act among other things as messenger molecules in the process of inflammation. COX 2 inhibitors include celecoxib etoricoxib lumiracoxib parecoxib rofecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib.

The terms cancer refers to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

 Hematological malignancies British spelling Haematological malignancies are the types of cancer that affect blood bone marrow and lymph nodes. As the three are intimately connected through the immune system a disease affecting one of the three will often affect the others as well although lymphoma is a disease of the lymph nodes it often spreads to the bone marrow affecting the blood. Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms cancer and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and or oncology. In some centers Hematology oncology is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions there are also surgical and radiation oncologists . Not all hematological disorders are malignant cancerous these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist. Hematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages myeloid and lymphoid cell lines. The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes erythrocytes thrombocytes macrophages and mast cells the lymphoid cell line produces B T NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas lymphocytic leukemias and myeloma are from the lymphoid line while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin. Leukemias include Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL and small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL . Lymphomas include Hodgkin s lymphomas all four subtypes and Non Hodgkin s lymphomas NHL all subtypes mantle cell lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. Hematological malignancies also include Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia and multiple myeloma.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include ibrutinib IMBRUVICA PCI 32765 Pharmacyclics Inc. CAS Reg. No. 936563 96 1 U.S. Pat. No. 7 514 444 idelalisib formerly CAL 101 GS 1101 GS 1101 Gilead Sciences Inc. CAS Reg. No. 1146702 54 6 erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS Reg. No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCINO Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

Chemotherapeutic agents include a Bcl 2 inhibitor a Btk inhibitor a JAK inhibitor a Syk inhibitor a Tyk inhibitor and an anti CD20 antibody.

A bcl 2 inhibitor for use in combination with a compound of the invention is venetoclax CAS Reg. No. 1257044 40 8 ABT 199 GDC 0199 RG 7601 AbbVie Inc. Genentech Inc. . Venetoclax is a so called BH3 mimetic drug designed to block the function of the protein Bcl 2 and is in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of Multiple myeloma Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Systemic lupus erythematosus Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Acute myelogenous leukemia and Non Hodgkin lymphoma Souers et al Nat Med. 2013 Jan. 6. doi 10.1038 nm.3048 . Venetoclax has the IUPAC name 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 4 dimethylcyclohex 1 en 1 yl methylpiperazin 1 yl N 3 nitro 4 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ylmethyl amino phenylsulfonyl 2 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 5 yloxy benzamide.

An anti CD20 antibody for use in combination with a compound of the invention is obinutuzumab CAS Reg. No. 949142 50 1 GAZYVA Genentech Inc. approved by the US FDA in 2013 for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in combination with chemotherapy in treatment naive patients. Obinutuzumab targets the B lymphocyte antigen CD20 and treats Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Non Hodgkin lymphoma Follicle center lymphoma and Mantle cell lymphoma.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg II vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chlorambucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the Btk inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation de amidation esterification de esterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. A metabolite may also be formed by reversal of the Michael addition of the cysteine thiol of Btk to the electrophilic functionality of the Formula I compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a Formula I compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities.

Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity. Enantiomers may be separated from a racemic mixture by a chiral separation method such as supercritical fluid chromatography SFC . Assignment of configuration at chiral centers in separated enantiomers may be tentative and depicted in Table 1 structures for illustrative purposes while stereochemical determination awaits such as x ray crystallographic data.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts denotes salts which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include both acid and base addition salts. The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and organic acids selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic aryl aliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as formic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid lactic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid glutamic acid anthranilic acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid embonic acid phenylacetic acid methanesulfonic acid mesylate ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid and salicyclic acid.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with an organic or inorganic base. Examples of acceptable inorganic bases include sodium potassium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese and aluminum salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic nontoxic bases includes salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine ethanolamine 2 diethylaminoethanol trimethamine dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine and polyamine resins

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethylacetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

The term EC is the half maximal effective concentration and denotes the plasma concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 of the maximum of a particular effect in vivo.

The term Ki is the inhibition constant and denotes the absolute binding affinity of a particular inhibitor to a receptor. It is measured using competition binding assays and is equal to the concentration where the particular inhibitor would occupy 50 of the receptors if no competing ligand e.g. a radioligand was present. Ki values can be converted logarithmically to pKi values log Ki in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency.

The term IC is the half maximal inhibitory concentration and denotes the concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 inhibition of a biological process in vitro. ICvalues can be converted logarithmically to pICvalues log IC in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency. The ICvalue is not an absolute value but depends on experimental conditions e.g. concentrations employed and can be converted to an absolute inhibition constant Ki using the Cheng Prusoff equation Biochem. Pharmacol. 1973 22 3099 . Other percent inhibition parameters such as IC IC etc. may be calculated.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as but not limited to 2H deuterium D 3H tritium 11C 13C 14C 15N 18F 31P 32P 35S 36Cl and 125I. Various isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as 3H 13C and 14C are incorporated. Such isotopically labeled compounds may be useful in metabolic studies reaction kinetic studies detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. Deuterium labeled or substituted therapeutic compounds of the invention may have improved DMPK drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics properties relating to distribution metabolism and excretion ADME . Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements. An 18F labeled compound may be useful for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent. Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. 2H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent in the compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by an isotopic enrichment factor. In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium.

The present invention provides heteroaryl pyridone and aza pyridone amide compounds of Formula I including Formulas Ia Id and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by Btk.

Ris selected from H F Cl CN CHOH CH CH OH C CH OH CH CF OH CHF CHF CHCHF CF C O NH C O NHCH C O N CH NH NHCH N CH NHC O CH OH OCH OCHCH OCHCHOH cyclopropyl cyclopropylmethyl 1 hydroxycyclopropyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl 3 hydroxy oxetan 3 yl oxetan 3 yl and azetidin 1 yl 

where alkyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH C CH OH CH OH CH CH C CH CHOH CHCHSOCH CHOP O OH CHF CHF CF CHCF CHCHF CH CH CN C CH CN CHCN COH COCH COCH COC CH COCH OH CH CONH CONHCH CON CH C CH CONH NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH N CH COCH NHS O CH N CH C CH CONH N CH CHCHS O CH NO O OH OCH OCHCH OCHCHOCH OCHCHOH OCHCHN CH OP O OH S O N CH SCH S O CH S O H cyclopropyl oxetanyl azetidinyl 1 methylazetidin 3 yl oxy N methyl N oxetan 3 ylamino azetidin 1 ylmethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl and morpholino.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Z is nitrogen and and Rform a five six or seven membered heterocyclyl ring and the heterocyclyl ring is pyrrolidinyl.

Although the scope of the invention is not limited by any particular mechanism of action binding properties or interaction of the compounds of the invention with a kinase target such as Btk the electrophilic functionality of Formula I compounds may form a covalent bond with Btk. The covalent bond so formed may be reversibly or irreversibly formed.

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition the present invention embraces all diastereomers including cis trans geometric and conformational isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The relative efficacies of Formula I compounds as inhibitors of an enzyme activity or other biological activity can be established by determining the concentrations at which each compound inhibits the activity to a predefined extent and then comparing the results. Typically the preferred determination is the concentration that inhibits 50 of the activity in a biochemical assay i.e. the 50 inhibitory concentration or IC . Determination of ICvalues can be accomplished using conventional techniques known in the art. In general an ICcan be determined by measuring the activity of a given enzyme in the presence of a range of concentrations of the inhibitor under study. The experimentally obtained values of enzyme activity then are plotted against the inhibitor concentrations used. The concentration of the inhibitor that shows 50 enzyme activity as compared to the activity in the absence of any inhibitor is taken as the ICvalue. Analogously other inhibitory concentrations can be defined through appropriate determinations of activity. For example in some settings it can be desirable to establish a 90 inhibitory concentration i.e. IC etc.

A general procedure for a standard cellular Btk Kinase Assay that can be used to test Formula I compounds is a Ramos Cell Btk Assay Example 902 .

A standard cellular B cell proliferation assay can be used to test Formula I compounds with B cells purified from spleen of Balb c mice Example 903 .

A standard T cell proliferation assay can be used to test Formula I compounds with T cells purified from spleen of Balb c mice Example 904 .

A CD86 Inhibition assay can be conducted on Formula I compounds for the inhibition of B cell activity using total mouse splenocytes purified from spleens of 8 16 week old Balb c mice Example 905 .

A B ALL Cell Survival Assay can be conducted on Formula I compounds to measure the number of viable B ALL cells in culture Example 906 .

A CD69 Whole Blood Assay can be conducted on Formula I compounds to determine the ability of compounds to inhibit the production of CD69 by B lymphocytes in human whole blood activated by crosslinking surface IgM with goat F ab 2 anti human IgM Example 907 . CD69 is a type II C type lectin involved in lymphocyte migration and cytokine secretion. CD69 expression represents one of the earliest available indicators of leukocyte activation and its rapid induction occurs through transcriptional activation Vazquez et al 2009 Jour. of Immunology Published Oct. 19 2009 doi 10.4049 jimmunol.0900839 . Concentration dependent inhibition of antigen receptor stimulation by selective Btk inhibitors induces cell surface expression of the lymphocyte activation marker CD69 Honigberg et al 2010 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 107 29 13075 13080 . Thus CD69 inhibition by selective Btk inhibitors may be correlated with therapeutic efficacy of certain B cell disorders. The CD69 Hu Blood FACS IC70 values are displayed for exemplary Formula I compounds in Tables 1 and 2.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula I exemplary compounds can be measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 908 . Cell based in vitro assays are used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation and may be useful in predicting clinical efficacy against hematological malignancies and solid tumors.

The in vitro potency of the combinations of Formula I compounds with chemotherapeutic agents can be measured by the cell proliferation assay of Example 908 the CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative efficacy of Formula I exemplary compounds and combinations with chemotherapeutic agents are measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example 908 against certain hematological tumor cell lines. ECvalues are established for the tested compounds and combinations.

Dosing of Formula I compounds for treating an autoimmune disease can be assessed in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthritis. In this model arthritis is induced in Balb c mice by administering anti collagen antibodies and lipopolysaccharide. See Nandakumar et al. 2003 Am. J. Pathol 163 1827 1837. In another example dosing of Formula I compounds for the treatment of B cell proliferative disorders can be examined in e.g. a human to mouse xenograft model in which human B cell lymphoma cells e.g. Ramos cells are implanted into immunodeficient mice e.g. nude mice as described in e.g. Pagel et al. 2005 Clin Cancer Res 11 13 4857 4866.

The therapeutic efficacy of a Formula I compound for one of the foregoing diseases can be optimized during a course of treatment. For example a subject being treated can undergo a diagnostic evaluation to correlate the relief of disease symptoms or pathologies to inhibition of in vivo Btk activity achieved by administering a given dose of Formula I compound. Cellular assays known in the art can be used to determine in vivo activity of Btk in the presence or absence of a Formula I compound. For example since activated Btk is phosphorylated at tyrosine 223 Y223 and tyrosine 551 Y551 phospho specific immunocytochemical staining of P Y223 or P Y551 positive cells can be used to detect or quantify activation of Btk in a population of cells for example by FACS analysis of stained vs. unstained cells Nisitani et al. 1999 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 96 2221 2226 . Thus the amount of the Formula I compound that is administered to a subject can be increased or decreased as needed so as to maintain a level of Btk inhibition optimal for treating the subject s disease state.

Generally a Formula I compound used in the methods described herein is identified or characterized in an in vitro assay e.g. an acellular biochemical assay or a cellular functional assay. Such assays are useful to determine an in vitro IC50 for a Formula I compound. For example an acellular kinase assay can be used to determine Btk activity after incubation of the kinase in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a candidate irreversible Btk inhibitor compound. If the a Formula I compound is in fact an irreversible Btk inhibitor Btk kinase activity will not be recovered by repeat washing with inhibitor free medium Smaill et al. 1999 J. Med. Chem. 42 10 1803 1815 . Further covalent complex formation between Btk and a candidate irreversible Btk inhibitor is a useful indicator of irreversible inhibition of Btk that can be readily determined by a number of methods known in the art e.g. mass spectrometry . For example some irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds can form a covalent bond with Cys 481 of Btk e.g. via a Michael reaction . Cellular functional assays for Btk inhibition include measuring one or more cellular endpoints in response to stimulating a Btk mediated pathway in a cell line e.g. BCR activation in Ramos cells in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a Formula I compound. Useful endpoints for determining a response to BCR activation include e.g. autophosphorylation of Btk phosphorylation of a Btk target protein e.g. PLC .gamma. and cytoplasmic calcium flux.

Against a panel of kinases Blk Bmx Btk EGFR ErbB2 ErbB4 Fgr Itk JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 Lck Lyn SLK Src TEC and TXK with a Cys residue in the same location as Btk Compound 101 showed better selectivity towards Btk than ibrutinib measured by inhibition at 1 M drug concentration.

By peptide mapping and LCMS detection it was determined that ibrutinib and Compound 101 only irreversibly bind to wild type Btk and not to the Cys 481 Ser mutant Btk S481C indicating that Cys 481 is essential to their irreversible binding. Compound 102 was determined to be a reversible binder to wild type Btk.

Exemplary Formula I compounds in Tables 1 and 2 were made characterized and tested for inhibition of Btk according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures and corresponding names ChemDraw Ultra Version 9.0.1 and ChemBioDraw Version 11.0 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. . Where more than one name is associated with a Formula I compound or intermediate the chemical structure shall define the compound.

Compound 101 was shown to bind covalently to BTK via mass spectroscopy and x ray crystal structure analyses. Compound 119 BTK LC3K Ki 0.000963 M would not be expected to bind covalently to BTK.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

The methods described herein include administering to a subject in need a composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I compound. Without being bound by theory the diverse roles played by Btk signaling in various hematopoietic cell functions e.g. B cell receptor activation suggests that small molecule Btk inhibitors are useful for reducing the risk of or treating a variety of diseases affected by or affecting many cell types of the hematopoietic lineage including e.g. autoimmune diseases heteroimmune conditions or diseases inflammatory diseases cancer e.g. B cell proliferative disorders and thromboembolic disorders. Further the irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds described herein may be used to inhibit a small subset of other tyrosine kinases that share homology with Btk by having a cysteine residue including a Cys 481 residue that can form a covalent bond with the irreversible inhibitor.

Formula I compounds of the present invention are useful for treating a human or animal patient suffering from a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior associated with Btk such as an immune disorder cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation a metabolism endocrine disorder or a neurological disorder may thus be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. A human or animal patient suffering from cancer may also be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. The condition of the patient may thereby be improved or ameliorated.

Formula I compounds may be useful for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions such as systemic and local inflammation immune inflammatory or autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis immune suppression organ transplant rejection allergies ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease dermatitis asthma systemic lupus erythematosus extra renal lupus Sj gren s Syndrome multiple sclerosis scleroderma systemic sclerosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP anti neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies ANCA vasculitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD psoriasis psoriatic arthritis osteoarthritis Still s disease juvenile arthritis diabetes myasthenia gravis Hashimoto s thyroiditis Ord s thyroiditis Graves disease Sjogren s syndrome multiple sclerosis Guillain Barre syndrome acute disseminated encephalomyelitis Addison s disease opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome ankylosing spondylitisis antiphospholipid antibody syndrome aplastic anemia autoimmune hepatitis coeliac disease Goodpasture s syndrome idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura optic neuritis scleroderma primary biliary cirrhosis Reiter s syndrome Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia Wegener s granulomatosis alopecia universalis Behcets disease chronic fatigue dysautonomnia endometriosis interstitial cystitis neuromyotonia scleroderma and vulvodynia.

Methods of the invention also include treating such diseases as arthritic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis monoarticular arthritis osteoarthritis gouty arthritis spondylitis Behcet disease sepsis septic shock endotoxic shock gram negative sepsis gram positive sepsis and toxic shock syndrome multiple organ injury syndrome secondary to septicemia trauma or hemorrhage ophthalmic disorders such as allergic conjunctivitis vernal conjunctivitis uveitis and thyroid associated ophthalmopathy eosinophilic granuloma pulmonary or respiratory disorders such as asthma chronic bronchitis allergic rhinitis ARDS chronic pulmonary inflammatory disease e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease silicosis pulmonary sarcoidosis pleurisy alveolitis vasculitis emphysema pneumonia bronchiectasis and pulmonary oxygen toxicity reperfusion injury of the myocardium brain or extremities fibrosis such as cystic fibrosis keloid formation or scar tissue formation atherosclerosis autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus SLE autoimmune thyroiditis multiple sclerosis some forms of diabetes and Reynaud s syndrome and transplant rejection disorders such as GVHD and allograft rejection chronic glomerulonephritis inflammatory bowel diseases such as chronic inflammatory bowel disease CIBD Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis and necrotizing enterocolitis inflammatory dermatoses such as contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis psoriasis or urticaria fever and myalgias due to infection central or peripheral nervous system inflammatory disorders such as meningitis encephalitis and brain or spinal cord injury due to minor trauma Sjogren s syndrome diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis alcoholic hepatitis bacterial pneumonia antigen antibody complex mediated diseases hypovolemic shock Type I diabetes mellitus acute and delayed hypersensitivity disease states due to leukocyte dyscrasia and metastasis thermal injury granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity.

In yet other embodiments the methods described herein can be used to treat a cancer e.g. B cell proliferative disorders which include but are not limited to diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma chronic lymphocytic lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cell prolymphocytic leukemia lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia splenic marginal zone lymphoma plasma cell myeloma plasmacytoma extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma intravascular large B cell lymphoma primary effusion lymphoma burkitt lymphoma leukemia and lymphomatoid granulomatosis.

Methods of the invention also include treating solid tumors and hematological malignancies. Cancer types which may be treated with Formula I compounds include breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma pancreatic myeloid disorders lymphoma hairy cells buccal cavity naso pharyngeal pharynx lip tongue mouth small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s leukemia bronchus thyroid liver and intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney and renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix multiple myeloma acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphoid leukemia CLL myeloid leukemia oral cavity and pharynx non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma and villous colon adenoma.

The methods of the invention can have utility in treating subjects who are or can be subject to reperfusion injury i.e. injury resulting from situations in which a tissue or organ experiences a period of ischemia followed by reperfusion. The term ischemia refers to localized tissue anemia due to obstruction of the inflow of arterial blood. Transient ischemia followed by reperfusion characteristically results in neutrophil activation and transmigration through the endothelium of the blood vessels in the affected area. Accumulation of activated neutrophils in turn results in generation of reactive oxygen metabolites which damage components of the involved tissue or organ. This phenomenon of reperfusion injury is commonly associated with conditions such as vascular stroke including global and focal ischemia hemorrhagic shock myocardial ischemia or infarction organ transplantation and cerebral vasospasm. To illustrate reperfusion injury occurs at the termination of cardiac bypass procedures or during cardiac arrest when the heart once prevented from receiving blood begins to reperfuse. It is expected that inhibition of Btk activity may result in reduced amounts of reperfusion injury in such situations.

Symptoms diagnostic tests and prognostic tests for each of the above mentioned conditions are known in the art. See e.g. Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16th ed. 2004 The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. Dey et al. 2006 Cytojournal 3 24 and the Revised European American Lymphoma REAL classification system see e.g. the website maintained by the National Cancer Institute . A number of animal models of are useful for establishing a range of therapeutically effective doses of Formula I compounds for treating any of the foregoing diseases

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

The pharmaceutical formulations described herein include but are not limited to aqueous liquid dispersions self emulsifying dispersions solid solutions liposomal dispersions aerosols solid dosage forms powders immediate release formulations controlled release formulations fast melt formulations tablets capsules pills delayed release formulations extended release formulations pulsatile release formulations multiparticulate formulations and mixed immediate and controlled release formulations.

Pharmaceutical compositions including a compound described herein may be manufactured in a conventional manner such as by way of example only by means of conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making levigating emulsifying spray drying encapsulating entrapping or compression processes pan coating melt granulation granulation fluidized bed spray drying or coating e.g. wurster coating tangential coating top spraying tableting extruding and the like. A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers binders stabilizing agents antifoaming agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide a stable or elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

Binders impart cohesive qualities and include e.g. alginic acid and salts thereof cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose e.g. Methocel hydroxypropylmethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose e.g. Klucel ethylcellulose e.g. Ethocel and microcrystalline cellulose e.g. Avicel microcrystalline dextrose amylose magnesium aluminum silicate polysaccharide acids bentonites gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone vinyl acetate copolymer crosspovidone povidone starch pregelatinized starch tragacanth dextrin a sugar such as sucrose e.g. Dipac glucose dextrose molasses mannitol sorbitol xylitol e.g. Xylitab and lactose a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia tragacanth ghatti gum mucilage of isapol husks polyvinylpyrrolidone e.g. Polyvidone CL Kollidon CL Polyplasdone XL 10 larch arabogalactan Veegum polyethylene glycol waxes sodium alginate and the like. In general binder levels of 20 70 are used in powder filled gelatin capsule formulations. Binder usage level in tablet formulations varies whether direct compression wet granulation roller compaction or usage of other excipients such as fillers which itself can act as moderate binder. Formulators skilled in art can determine the binder level for the formulations but binder usage level of up to 70 in tablet formulations is common.

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to ameliorate or treat the hyperproliferative disorder.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . Suitable carriers for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include but are not limited to acacia gelatin colloidal silicon dioxide calcium glycerophosphate calcium lactate maltodextrin glycerine magnesium silicate sodium caseinate soy lecithin sodium chloride tricalcium phosphate dipotassium phosphate sodium stearoyl lactylate carrageenan monoglyceride diglyceride pregelatinized starch hydroxypropylmethylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate sucrose microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol and the like. Suitable filling agents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include but are not limited to lactose calcium carbonate calcium phosphate dibasic calcium phosphate calcium sulfate microcrystalline cellulose cellulose powder dextrose dextrates dextran starches pregelatinized starch hydroxypropylmethycellulose HPMC hydroxypropylmethycellulose phthalate hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate HPMCAS sucrose xylitol lactitol mannitol sorbitol sodium chloride polyethylene glycol and the like.

The active pharmaceutical ingredients may be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Nineteenth Ed Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 1995 Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Libetman H. A. and Lachman L. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems Seventh Ed. Lippincott Williams Willins 1999 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula I may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom. Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

 Disintegration agents or disintegrants facilitate the breakup or disintegration of a substance. Examples of disintegration agents include a starch e.g. a natural starch such as corn starch or potato starch a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel or sodium starch glycolate such as Promogel or Explotab a cellulose such as a wood product methylcrystalline cellulose e.g. Avicel Elceme Emcocel Vivacel Ming Tia and Solka Floc methylcellulose croscarmellose or a cross linked cellulose such as cross linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose Ac Di Sol cross linked carboxymethylcellulose or cross linked croscarmellose a cross linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate a cross linked polymer such as crosspovidone a cross linked polyvinylpyrrolidone alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium alginate a clay such as Veegum HV magnesium aluminum silicate a gum such as agar guar locust bean Karaya pectin or tragacanth sodium starch glycolate bentonite a natural sponge a surfactant a resin such as a cation exchange resin citrus pulp sodium lauryl sulfate sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch and the like

Dispersing agents and or viscosity modulating agents include materials that control the diffusion and homogeneity of a drug through liquid media or a granulation method or blend method. In some embodiments these agents also facilitate the effectiveness of a coating or eroding matrix. Exemplary diffusion facilitators dispersing agents include e.g. hydrophilic polymers electrolytes Tween 60 or 80 PEG polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP commercially known as Plasdone and the carbohydrate based dispersing agents such as for example hydroxypropyl celluloses e.g. HPC H PC SL and HPC L hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses e.g. HPMC K100 RPMC K4M HPMC K15M and HPMC K100M carboxymethylcellulose sodium methylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate HPMCAS noncrystalline cellulose magnesium aluminum silicate triethanolamine polyvinyl alcohol PVA vinyl pyrrolidone vinyl acetate copolymer S630 4 1 1 3 3 tetramethylbutyl phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde also known as tyloxapol poloxamers e.g. Pluronics which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide and poloxamines e.g. Tetronic 908 also known as Poloxamine which is a tetrafunctional block copolymer derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine BASF Corporation Parsippany N.J. polyvinylpyrrolidone K12 polyvinylpyrrolidone K17 polyvinylpyrrolidone K25 or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30 polyvinylpyrrolidone vinyl acetate copolymer S 630 polyethylene glycol e.g. the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000 or about 3350 to about 4000 or about 7000 to about 5400 sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose polysorbate 80 sodium alginate gums such as e.g. gum tragacanth and gum acacia guar gum xanthans including xanthan gum sugars cellulosics such as e.g. sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose polysorbate 80 sodium alginate polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate povidone carbomers polyvinyl alcohol PVA alginates chitosans and combinations thereof. Plasticizers such as cellulose or triethyl cellulose can also be used as dispersing agents. Dispersing agents particularly useful in liposomal dispersions and self emulsifying dispersions are dimyristoyl phosphatidyl choline natural phosphatidyl choline from eggs natural phosphatidyl glycerol from eggs cholesterol and isopropyl myristate.

 Lubricants and glidants are compounds that prevent reduce or inhibit adhesion or friction of materials. Exemplary lubricants include e.g. stearic acid calcium hydroxide talc sodium stearyl lumerate a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil or hydrogenated vegetable oil such as hydrogenated soybean oil Sterotex higher fatty acids and their alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts such as aluminum calcium magnesium zinc stearic acid sodium stearates glycerol talc waxes Stearowet boric acid sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride leucine a polyethylene glycol e.g. PEG4000 or a methoxypolyethylene glycol such as Carbowax sodium oleate sodium benzoate glyceryl behenate polyethylene glycol magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate colloidal silica such as Syloid Cab O Sil a starch such as corn starch silicone oil a surfactant and the like.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs. The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as inflammation or a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with an additional second therapeutic compound that has anti inflammatory or anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating an inflammation immune response disorder or hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The additional therapeutic may be a Bcl 2 inhibitor a Btk inhibitor a JAK inhibitor an anti CD20 antibody an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent chemotherapeutic agent an apoptosis enhancer a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders. The second therapeutic agent may be an NSAID anti inflammatory agent. The second therapeutic agent may be a chemotherapeutic agent. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a therapeutic agent such as an NSAID.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other therapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other therapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active therapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation de amidation esterification de esterification Michael addition reversal enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein and those for other heterocycles described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 each of which are expressly incorporated by reference. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing Formula I compounds and necessary reagents and intermediates are known in the art and include for example those described in R. Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations VCH Publishers 1989 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Ed. John Wiley and Sons 1999 and L. Paquette ed. Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The Examples provide exemplary methods for preparing Formula I compounds. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the Formula I compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted and discussed in the Figures and Examples other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the exemplary compounds prepared by the described methods can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formulas I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

Unless otherwise indicated conventional methods of mass spectroscopy NMR HPLC protein chemistry biochemistry recombinant DNA techniques and pharmacology within the skill of the art are employed. Unless specific definitions are provided the nomenclature employed in connection with and the laboratory procedures and techniques of analytical chemistry synthetic organic chemistry and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those known in the art. Standard techniques can be used for chemical syntheses chemical analyses pharmaceutical preparation formulation and delivery and treatment of patients. Reactions and purification techniques can be performed e.g. using kits of manufacturer s specifications or as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein. The foregoing techniques and procedures can be generally performed of conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification.

Experimental procedures intermediates and reagents useful for useful for the preparation of Formula I compounds may be found in WO2011 140488 US 2012 0010191 WO2013 067274 US 2013 0116235 WO2013 067277 US 2013 0116245 WO2013 067260 US 2013 0116262 WO2013 067264 US 2013 0116246 which are incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to form carbon carbon bonds to attach the rings of Formula I compounds and intermediates such as A 3 Suzuki 1991 Pure Appl. Chem. 63 419 422 Miyaura and Suzuki 1979 Chem. Reviews 95 7 2457 2483 Suzuki 1999 J. Organometal. Chem. 576 147 168 . Suzuki coupling is a palladium mediated cross coupling reaction of a heteroarylhalide such as B 2 or B 4 with a boronate ester such as A 1 or A 2. For example B 2 may be combined with about 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane and dissolved in about 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. In some cases potassium acetate is used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction is then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a microwave reactor Biotage AB Uppsala Sweden for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the boron ester A 1 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC. Substituents are as defined or protected forms or precursors thereof. Likewise bromide intermediate B 4 can be boronylated to give A 2.

Suzuki coupling of B 2 and A 2 or of A 1 and B 4 gives Formula I compound or intermediate A 3. Boronic ester or acid 1.5 eq A 1 or A 2 and a palladium catalyst such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 0.05 eq is added to a mixture of halo intermediate 1 eq B 2 or B 4 in acetonitrile and 1 M of sodium carbonate aqueous solution equal volume as acetonitrile . The reaction mixture is heated to about 150 C. in a microwave for about 15 min. LC MS indicates whether the reaction is complete or requires further time or reagents. Water is added to the mixture and the precipitated product is filtered and purified by HPLC to yield the product A 3. Substituents may be as defined or protected forms or precursors thereof. Ris a group such as alkyl or aryl useful for intermediates for the preparation of Formula I compounds.

A variety of low valent Pd II and Pd 0 palladium catalysts precatalysts and ligands can be used during the Suzuki or Suzuki Miyaura coupling step Miyaura N. 2002 Top. Curr. Chem. 219 11 59 Kotha S. et al 2002 Tetrahedron 58 9633 9695 Bellina F. et al 2004 Synthesis 15 2419 2440 Hassan J. et al 2002 Chem. Rev. 102 1359 1470 Littke A. F. et al 2002 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 41 4176 4211 Barder T. E. et al 2005 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127 4685 4696 Walker S. D. et al 2004 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 43 1871 1876 Yin J. et al 2002 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 1162 1163 including PdCl2PtBu p R Ph Guram et al 2006 Organic Letters 8 9 1787 1789 PdCl PPh Pd t Bu PdCldppf CHCl Pd PPh Pd OAc PPh ClPd Pet Pd DIPHOS ClPd Bipy PdCl PhPCHPPh ClPd P o tol Pd dba P o tol Pd dba P furyl ClPd P furyl ClPd PMePh ClPd P 4 F Ph ClPd P CF ClPd P 2 COOH Ph Ph ClPd P 4 COOH Ph Ph and encapsulated catalysts Pd EnCat 30 Pd EnCat TPP30 and Pd II EnCat BINAP30 US 2004 0254066 .

Exemplary embodiments of low valent Pd II and Pd 0 palladium catalysts precatalysts and ligands are Buchwald catalysts palladacycles and ligands including 2 Dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl X Phos CAS Reg. No. 564483 18 7 and Chloro 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 2 amino 1 1 biphenyl palladium II X Phos aminobiphenyl palladium chloride precatalyst CAS Reg. No. 1310584 14 5 commercially available Johnson Matthey West Deptford N.J. Sigma Aldrich Fine Chemicals and other suppliers . See U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 879 U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 916 U.S. Pat. No. 6 307 087.

The reaction of heteroaryl halide such as B 2 or arylhalide such as B 4 and a boronic acid or boronic ester to form compounds A 1 and A 2 respectively can be conducted under Buchwald palladium catalysis conditions with the Buchwald pre catalyst palladacycle and ligand reagents in Table 3 and as described in Biscoe et al 2008 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 130 6686 6687 Kinzel et al 2010 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 132 14073 14075 Molander et al 2012 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 134 11667 11673 Walker et al 2004 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 43 1871 Billingsley et al 2007 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 46 5359 5363 U.S. Pat. No. 6 946 560 U.S. Pat. No. 7 026 498 U.S. Pat. No. 7 247 731 U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 582 U.S. Pat. No. 6 307 087 U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 916 U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 879 U.S. Pat. No. 7 858 784 which are incorporated by reference. Such reagents are commercially available Johnson Matthey Inc. Wayne Pa. Sigma Aldrich Fine Chemical St. Louis Mo. Strem Chemicals Inc. Newburyport Mass. .

In the methods of preparing Formula I compounds it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like. Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved such as boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

A 100 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser was charged with 6 aminopyridin 2 ol 1.1 g 10.0 mmol 3 5 dibromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 2.67 g 10.0 mmol cesium carbonate 6.52 g 20.0 mmol xantphos 576 mg 1.0 mmol Pd dba 460 mg 0.50 mmol and DMF 35 mL . The system was subject to three cycles of vacuum argon flush and heated at 100 C. for 3 h. It was then cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filtrate was diluted with DCM 500 mL and washed with HO 80 mL 3 . The organic layer was dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 30 1 to 15 1 to afford 101a 580 mg 20 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 296.0

Step 2 Tert butyl 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethylcarbamate 101b

To a mixture of tert butyl 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethylcarbamate 500 mg 1.70 mmol tert butyl 2 hydroxyethylcarbamate 1.1 g 6.8 mmol and PPh 1.78 g 6.8 mmol at 0 C. in anhydrous THF 40 mL was added dropwise a solution of diisopropyl azodiformate 1.37 g 6.8 mmol . This mixture was heated at 40 C. for 3 h. It was then cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between HO and DCM. The combined organic layer was dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 60 1 to 40 1 to afford 101b 520 mg 70 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 438.9

Step 3 4 5 6 2 Tert butoxy carbonyl aminoethoxy pyridin 2 yl amino 1 methyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydropyridin 3 yl 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 ylpyridin 3 yl methyl acetate 101d

A 50 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser was charged with 101b 500 mg 1.14 mmol 4 dihydroxyboranyl 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 ylpyridin 3 yl methyl acetate 101c 452 mg 1.14 mmol KPO 483 mg 2.28 mmol NaOAc 187 mg 2.28 mmol Pd dppf Cl 42 mg 0.057 mmol and CHCN HO 20.0 0.5 mL . The system was subject to three cycles of vacuum argon flush then heated at 95 C. under Nfor 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 70 1 to 30 1 to afford 101d 400 mg 50 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 712.3

Step 4 4 5 6 2 Aminoethoxy pyridin 2 yl amino 1 methyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydro pyridin 3 yl 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 ylpyridin 3 yl methyl acetate 101e

To a solution 101d 400 mg 0.56 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added dropwise 3M HCl in dioxane . This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residual yellow solid was washed with ethyl acetate and dried under vacuum to afford 101e 290 mg 80 as a yellow solid. MS ESI M H 612.3

Step 5 2 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 4 1 methyl 6 oxo 5 6 2 prop 2 enamido ethoxy pyridin 2 ylamino 1 6 dihydropyridin 3 yl pyridin 3 yl methyl acetate 101f

To a solution of 101e 250 mg 0.387 mmol and TEA 78 mg 0.77 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added dropwise a solution of acryloyl chloride 42 mg 0.46 mmol in DCM. This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated under reduce pressure to afford 101f as a yellow solid crude which was used in next step without further purification. MS ESI M H 666.4

 Step 6 To a solution of 101f 257 mg 0.387 mmol in THF i PrOH HO 5.0 3.0 2.0 mL was added LiOH 46 mg 1.95 mmol at room temperature. The reaction was stirred for 1 h. The mixture was diluted with water 15 mL and extracted with DCM 15 mL 3 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue solid was purified by reverse phase prep HPLC to afford 101 95 mg 39 two steps as a white solid. MS ESI M H 624.2. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.74 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.53 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 9.70 s 1H 7.73 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.50 7.48 m 1H 7.29 7.27 m 1H 6.85 s 1H 6.46 6.44 m 2H 6.27 6.23 m 2H 6.05 6.00 m 1H 5.61 5.59 m 1H 4.98 4.96 m 1H 4.72 4.70 m 1H 4.55 4.53 m 1H 4.39 4.29 m 3H 4.19 4.16 m 2H 3.96 3.94 m 1H 375 3.73 m 4H overlap 3.64 3.60 m 1H 2.61 2.59 m 2H 2.53 2.51 m 2H 1.30 s 6H .

A 100 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a reflux condenser was charged with pyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid 1.20 g 10 mmol 2 chloropyrimidin 4 amine 1.30 g 10 mmol isopropyl alcohol IPA 40 mL and TEA 6 mL . The mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight O N . After this time the reaction was cooled to room temperature r.t. . It was then filtered and the filter cake was washed with DCM to afford 102a 1.4 g 67 as a pale yellow solid. MS M H 209.1

Step 2 1 4 5 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 4 yl 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 yl aminopyrimidin 2 yl pyrrolidine 3 carboxylic acid 102c.

A 100 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a reflux condenser was charged with 10 4 5 bromo 1 methyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydropyridin 3 yl 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 4 4 dimethyl 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 9 one 102b 497 mg 1.0 mmol 102a 312 mg 1.5 mmol Pd dba 92 mg 0.10 mmol XantPhos 4 5 Bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene CAS Reg. No. 161265 03 8 116 mg 0.20 mmol CsCO 652 mg 2.0 mmol and DMF 20 mL . After three cycles of vacuum argon flush the mixture was heated at 80 C. for 4 h. After this time the reaction was cooled to room temperature. It was then filtered and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase prep HPLC to afford 102c 82 mg 13 as a white solid. MS M H 625.4

Step 3 A 50 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a reflux condenser was charged with 102c 100 mg 0.16 mmol N N N N tetramethyl O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl uronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 152 mg 0.40 mmol triethylamine TEA 8 drops THF 10 mL and 2 aminoacetonitrile 5 drops . The mixture was heated at 30 C. for 5 h. After this time the reaction was cooled to room temperature. It was then filtered and the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by reverse phase prep HPLC to afford 102 30 mg 28 as a white solid. MS M H 663.2. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.88 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.81 s 1H 8.74 s 1H 8.47 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.95 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.35 d J 4.5 Hz 1H 6.58 6.55 m 2H 5.02 s 1H 4.53 4.51 m 1H 4.43 4.40 m 1H 4.23 4.15 m overlap 5H 3.86 3.84 m 1H 3.72 3.69 m 1H 3.62 s 3H 3.60 3.56 m 1H 3.51 3.43 m 2H 3.10 3.08 m 1H 2.62 2.54 m 2H 2.43 s 2H 2.18 2.16 m 1H 2.06 2.04 m 1H 1.22 s 6H .

To a mixture of tert butyl 2 hydroxyethylcarbamate 6.4 g 40 mmol and EtN 7.2 mL 52 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added para toluene sulfonylchloride TsCl 8.4 g 44 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature rt overnight ON . The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was partitioned between EA and water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 5 1 to give 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 10.0 g 79 as white solid.

A mixture of 3 5 dibromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 2.67 g 10.0 mmol 6 aminopyridin 2 ol 1.1 g 10.0 mmol Pd dba 460 mg 0.5 mmol Xantphos 576 mg 1.0 mmol and CsCO 6.52 g 20.0 mmol in DMF 40 mL was stirred at 100 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was treated with DCM. The precipitate was collected by filtration and dried to give 5 bromo 3 6 hydroxypyridin 2 ylamino 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 101a 4.0 g crude as a brown solid.

A mixture of compound 101a 7.0 g 23.75 mmol 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 3.0 g 9.5 mmol and CsCO 3.7 g 11.4 mmol in DMF 40 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was treated with EA and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give Tert butyl 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethylcarbamate 101b 650 mg 15 for two steps as a yellow solid. A mixture of 101b 700 mg 1.6 mmol in HCl 5 mL 4M in 1 4 dioxane 20 mmol was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give 103a 550 mg 83 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 341.0

A mixture of 103a 900 mg 2.4 mmol and EtN 0.83 mL 6.0 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added acryloyl chloride 0.23 mL 2.88 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and quenched with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 103b 620 mg 66 as light yellow solid. MS ESI M H 393.1

Step 3 N 2 6 1 methyl 2 oxo 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl acrylamide 103c

A mixture of 103b 250 mg 0.64 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane PinB 570 mg 2.23 mmol Pd dba 116 mg 0.128 mmol Xphos 122 mg 0.256 mmol and KOAc 125 mg 1.28 mmol in dioxane 16 mL was stirred at 65 C. for 4 h under N. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give 103c 825 mg crude as brown solid. This material was used for the next step directly. MS ESI M H 441.2

Step 4 A mixture of 103c 250 mg 0.57 mmol 6 3 bromo 5 fluoro 2 hydroxymethyl phenyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrodibenzo b d thieno 3 2 d pyridazin 7 6H one 103d 193 mg 0.47 mmol Pd dppf Cl 71 mg 0.094 mmol and KPO 250 mg 1.18 mmol in acetonitrile 10 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 103 40 mg 10 for two steps as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.64 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 7.93 s 1H 7.52 7.49 m 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.27 7.25 m 1H 7.14 m 1H 6.61 s 1H 6.47 m 1H 6.23 6.22 m 1H 5.98 5.92 m 1H 5.51 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.40 s 2H 4.29 4.27 m 2H 3.74 s 3H 3.52 s 2H 3.00 2.98 m 2H 2.88 2.87 m 2H 1.99 1.97 m 4H . MS ESI M H 643.2

To a mixture of 6 tert butyl 2 4 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 8 fluorophthalazin 1 2H one 104a 150 mg 0.42 mmol and triethylamine EtN 0.12 mL 0.84 mmol in tetrahydrofuran THF 2.5 mL was added acetyl chloride AcCl 44 l 0.62 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and quenched with water extracted with ethylacetate EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 104b 160 mg as a colorless oil. MS ESI M H 404.1

A mixture of 104b 150 mg 0.37 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane PinB 379 mg 1.48 mmol Pd dppf Cl 28 mg 0.037 mmol Xphos 35 mg 0.074 mmol and KOAc 108 mg 1.11 mmol in dioxane 5 mL was stirred at 65 C. for 15 h under N. The reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was washed with DCM PE 1 mL 20 mL and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give 104c 100 mg 66 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 414.2

Step 3 4 5 6 2 acrylamidoethoxyl pyridin 2 ylamino 1 methyl 6 oxo 1 6 dihydropyridin 3 yl 2 6 tert butyl 8 fluoro 1 oxophthalazin 2 1H yl pyridin 3 yl methyl acetate 104d

A mixture of 104c 256 mg 0.62 mmol 3 6 2 aminoethoxyl pyridin 2 ylamino 5 bromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one hydrochloride 103b 120 mg 0.31 mmol Pd dppf Cl 47 mg 0.062 mmol and KPO 131 mg 0.62 mmol in acetonitrile 2 mL and water 0.2 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 3 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was washed with petroleum ether PE to give 104d 160 mg as brown solid. This material was used for the next step directly.

Step 4 A mixture of 104d 140 mg 0.21 mmol and LiOH 44 mg 1.05 mmol in THF i PrOH water 2.0 mL 1.2 mL 0.8 mL was stirred at rt for 1 h. The mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 104 10 mg 10 for two steps as a light yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.72 8.66 m 2H 8.33 s 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.59 7.47 m 6H 6.51 s 1H 6.44 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 6.24 6.16 m 2H 5.99 5.94 m 1H 5.50 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.58 4.48 m 2H 4.28 4.21 m 2H 3.99 3.57 m 5H 1.43 s 9H . MS ESI M H 640.3

Step 1 A mixture of 6 bromopyridin 2 amine 17.2 g 100 mmol BocO 45.9 mL 200 mmol EtN 40.4 mL 300 mmol DMAP 610 mg 5.0 mmol and t BuOH 200 mL was stirred at 60 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. filtered and dried to give N N bis Boc 6 bromopyridin 2 amine 105a 24.0 g 65 as white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl3 7.58 7.25 m 3H 1.46 s 18H .

Step 2 A mixture of 105a 3.72 g 10 mmol tert butyl 2 aminoethylcarbamate 1.60 g 10 mmol Pd dba 91.6 mg 0.1 mmol Xantphos 116 mg 0.2 mmol CsCO 9.78 g 30 mmol in dioxane 100 mL was degassed and stirred at 95 C. for 6 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 1 1 to give N N bis Boc 6 2 N Boc aminoethyl pyridin 2 amine 105b 2.62 g 58 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 453.3

Step 3 To a mixture of 105b 4.52 g 10 mmol in dioxane 50 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 10 mL 40 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h and concentrated to give N2 2 aminoethyl pyridine 2 6 diamine hydrochloride 105c 1.27 g 84 as yellow solid.

Step 4 A mixture of 105c 1.88 g 10 mmol acrylic acid 720 mg 10 mmol HATU 3.80 g 10 mmol and DIPEA 6.97 mL 40 mmol in DCM 50 mL was stirred at rt for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA MeOH 4 1 to give N 2 6 aminopyridin 2 ylamino ethyl acrylamide 105d 1.07 g 52 as pale yellow oil.

Step 5 A mixture of 105d 2.06 g 10 mmol 3 5 dibromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 2.65 g 10 mmol Pd dba 91.6 mg 0.1 mmol Xant phos 116 mg 0.2 mmol CsCO 9.78 g 30 mmol in dioxane 100 mL was degassed and stirred at 100 C. for 16 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 5 1 to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 ylamino ethyl acrylamide 105e 2.54 g 65 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 394.1.

Step 6 A mixture of 105e 235 mg 0.601 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 299 mg 0.601 mmol Pd dppf Cl 42.8 mg 0.06 mmol and KPO 382 mg 1.80 mmol in ACN 10 mL and HO 2 mL was degassed and stirred at 85 C. for 4 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography EA PE 4 1 to give N 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl amino ethyl prop 2 enamide 105f 125 mg 31 as a brown solid. MS ESI M H 684.3

Step 7 To a mixture of 105f 125 mg 0.183 mmol in THF 6 mL i PrOH 2 mL and HO 2 mL was added LiOH.HO 37 mg 0.915 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h and concentrated. The residue was partitioned between water and DCM. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was washed with EA and dried to give 105 73 mg 60 as gray solid. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.56 s 1H 8.48 s 1H 8.20 s 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.38 7.32 m 2H 7.23 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.52 s 1H 6.35 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.21 6.15 m 1H 6.05 6.02 m 1H 5.95 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.73 s 1H 4.33 s 2H 3.59 s 3H 3.28 3.25 m 5H 2.93 bs 2H 2.84 bs 2H 1.88 bs 4H . ESI LCMS m z 642 C34H34FN7O5 H 

Step 1 A mixture of N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl but 2 ynamide 116a 224 mg 0.45 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 240 mg 0.59 mmol Pd dppf Cl 90 mg 0.12 mmol and KPO 250 mg 1.18 mmol in acetonitrile 10 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 3 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give N 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl oxy ethyl but 2 ynamide 106a 330 mg crude as a brown solid. ESI LCMS m z 696.8. This material was used for the next step directly

Step 2 A mixture of 106a 330 mg 0.47 mmol and LiOH.HO 196 mg 4.67 mmol in THF i PrOH water 5.0 mL 3.0 mL 2.0 mL was stirred at rt for 1 h. The mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 106 30 mg 8 for two steps as white solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.52 s 1H 8.26 s 1H 7.52 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.13 7.10 m 1H 6.69 s 1H 6.52 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.22 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.34 s 2H 4.27 t J 5.0 Hz 2H 2.98 2.97 m 2H 2.87 2.85 m 2H 1.99 1.96 m 4H 1.86 s 3H . ESI LCMS m z 655 C34H31FN6O5S H 

To an ice cooled mixture of S tert butyl 1 hydroxypropan 2 ylcarbamate 3.0 g 17.1 mmol and EtN 4.8 mL 34.2 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride MsCl 1.33 mL 17.1 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h diluted with DCM washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 107a 3.72 g 86 as a white solid. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d6 4.044 4.033 d 2H 3.164 s 3H 1.385 s 9H 1.065 1.051 d 3H 

Step 2 S tert butyl 1 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy propan 2 ylcarbamate 107b

A mixture of 107a 964 mg 5.5 mmol 5 Bromo 3 6 hydroxypyridin 2 ylamino 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 101a 4 g crude 16.5 mmol CsCO 5.38 g 11 mmol in DMF 20 mL was stirred at 95 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography DCM MeOH 20 1 to give 107b 550 mg 22 as a brown solid. MS ESI M H 453.1

A mixture of 107b 550 mg 1.21 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with HCl 4 M in dioxone 3 mL 12 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and quenched with sat. NaCO extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 107c 400 mg 1.03 mmol as brown solid. MS ESI M H 352.9

Step 4 S N 1 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy propan 2 yl acrylamide 107d

To an ice cooled mixture of 107c 390 mg 1.0 mmol and TEA 0.53 ml 3.0 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added acryloyl chloride 0.23 ml 2.0 mmol dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and quenched with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography DCM MeOH 10 1 to give 107d 284 mg 70 as brown solid. MS ESI M H 409.0

Step 5 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g

4 Chloro 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 ylpyridine 3 carbaldehyde 107e was prepared following the procedures for intermediate 108a in U.S. Pat. No. 8 716 274 Example 108 Figure 8 and from 4 4 dimethyl 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.0 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 9 one from U.S. Pat. No. 8 729 072 Example 103e. To a solution of 107e 12.0 g 35.0 mmol in MeOH 40 mL and DCM 40 mL was added NaBH 1.83 g 38.4 mmol in batches at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h quenched with water and concentrated. The residue was partitioned between EA and brine. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product 4 Chloro 2 4 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 ylpyridine 3 carbinol 107f was used in next step without further purification 9.6 g 80 . A mixture of compound 107f 9.6 g 27.8 mmol tetrahydroxydiborane hypodiboric acid 7.43 g 83.5 mmol Xphos Pd G2 218 mg 0.278 mmol Xphos 321 mg 0.556 mmol and KOAc 6.85 g 83.5 mmol in EtOH 200 mL was heated to 80 C. for 1 h and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in sat. KCO 100 mL and extracted with DCM 4 times. The organic phase was discarded and the aqueous layer was neutralized with conc. HCl. White precipitate evolved and the suspension was extracted with DCM. The organic layer was combined dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 107g as a gray solid 6.21 g 53 .

Step 6 A mixture of 107d 150 mg 0.37 mmol 107g 125 mg 0.37 mmol Pd dppf Cl 27 mg 10 mmol and KPO 235 mg 1.11 mmol in acetonitrile 20 mL and water 5 ml was stirred at 85 C. for 4 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC DCM MeOH 30 1 to give 107 80 mg 34 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.61 8.58 m 2H 8.10 bs 1H 7.52 7.45 m 3H 7.38 7.34 m 2H 6.86 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.51 s 1H 6.15 bs 2H 6.15 6.01 m 1H 5.56 bs 1H 4.97 bs 1H 4.39 4.33 m 2H 4.19 4.03 m 6H 3.87 bs 1H 3.61 s 3H 2.56 2.42 m 4H 1.21 s 6H 0.97 0.91 m 3H . ESI LCMS m z 638 C35H39N7O5 H 

Step 1 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 bromo phenyl methyl acetate 108b

8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.0 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 trien 6 one was prepared following the procedures of U.S. Pat. No. 8 716 274 Example 191d and converted to 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.0 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 bromo phenyl carbinol 108a. To a mixture of 108a 4.1 g 10 mmol and EtN 1.95 mL 14 mmol in THF 50 mL was added AcCl 0.85 mL 12 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h diluted with water and extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give compound 108b 4.0 g as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 451.0

Step 2 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c

A mixture of compound 108b 4.5 g 10 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane PinB 7.6 g 30 mmol Pd dppf Cl 378 mg 0.5 mmol and KOAc 2.9 g 30 mmol in dioxane 80 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was slurried with PE EA 40 mL 2 mL and filtered to give compound 108c 3.5 g 70 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 498.9

Step 3 N 1S 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl oxy 1 methyl ethyl prop 2 enamide 108d

A mixture of S N 1 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy propan 2 yl acrylamide 107d 150 mg 0.37 mmol 108c 200 mg 0.40 mmol Pd dppf Cl 27 mg 10 mol and KPO 235 mg 1.11 mmol in acetonitrile 20 mL and water 5 ml was stirred at 85 C. for 4 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC DCM MeOH 30 1 to give 108d 70 mg crude as yellow solid

Step 4 To a mixture of 108d 70 mg 0.1 mmol in THF 6 mL i PrOH 2 mL and HO 2 mL was added LiOH.HO 42 mg 1 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 108 20 mg 8 for two steps as yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.61 d J 10 Hz 2H 8.49 s 1H 8.04 8.03 m 1H 7.52 7.50 m 2H 7.40 7.35 m 2H 6.87 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.21 6.15 m 2H 6.05 6.02 m 1H 5.54 d J 10 Hz 1H 4.73 bs 1H 4.30 bs 2H 4.15 bs 2H 4.02 bs 1H 3.61 s 3H 2.93 bs 2H 2.84 bs 2H 1.86 bs 4H 0.97 bs 3H . ESI LCMS m z 657.3 C34H33FN6O5S H 

A mixture of N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 ylamino ethyl acrylamide 105e 100 mg 0.255 mmol 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 86 mg 0.255 mmol Pd dppf Cl 20 mg 10 mol Xant phos 30 mg 20 mol and KPO 160 mg 0.765 mmol in acetonitrile 10 mL and HO 2 mL was stirred at 85 C. for 4 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 109 10 mg 6 as yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.69 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.46 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 8.22 t J 5.0 Hz 1H 8.18 s 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.35 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.24 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.57 s 1H 6.44 bs 1H 6.38 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.19 6.14 m 1H 6.06 6.02 m 1H 5.96 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.55 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 5.09 bs 1H 4.52 4.43 m 2H 4.25 4.19 m 3H 3.86 3.84 m 1H 3.61 s 3H 3.29 3.27 m 2H 3.24 3.22 m 2H 2.59 2.51 m 2H 2.42 s 2H 1.22 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 623.0 C34H38N8O4 H 

Step 1 A mixture of N N bis Boc 6 bromopyridin 2 amine 105a 5.0 g 13.4 mmol tert butyl 2 methylamino ethylcarbamate 3.5 g 20.0 mmol Pd dba 610 mg 0.67 mmol Xantphos 774 mg 1.34 mmol and CsCO 10.9 g 31.5 mmol in DMF 50 mL was stirred at 95 C. for 7 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was diluted with EA 50 mL washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 9 1 to give a mixture of N N bis Boc 6 2 N Boc 1 methylaminoethyl pyridin 2 amine 110a ESI LCMS m z 467.3 and N Boc 6 2 N Boc 1 methylaminoethyl pyridin 2 amine 110b ESI LCMS m z 367.3 2.0 g 40 as a yellow solid.

Step 2 A mixture of 110a and 110b 2.0 g 4.3 mmol in HCl 10 mL 4 M in 1 4 dioxane 40 mmol was stirred at rt for 7 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give tert butyl 6 2 aminoethyl methyl amino pyridin 2 ylcarbamate hydrochloride 110c 1.2 g 93 as yellow solid which was used for the next step directly. ESI LCMS m z 267.2

Step 3 A mixture of 110c 1.2 g 4.5 mmol acrylic acid 0.37 mL 5.4 mmol HATU 2.05 g 5.4 mmol and DIPEA 4.6 mL 10.8 mmol in DCM 30 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give tert butyl 6 2 acrylamidoethyl methyl amino pyridin 2 ylcarbamate 110d 1.2 g 75 as a brown oil. The material was used for the next step directly. ESI LCMS m z 321.3

Step 4 A mixture of 110d 2.0 g 6.25 mmol and TFA 2.0 mL in DCM 10.0 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was concentrated and diluted with EA 30 mL neutralized with 1M NaOH. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC PE EA 1 1 to give N 2 6 aminopyridin 2 yl methyl amino ethyl acrylamide 110e 550 mg 40 as yellow oil. ESI LCMS m z 221.2

Step 5 A mixture of 110e 400 mg 1.82 mmol 3 5 dibromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 534 mg 2.0 mmol Pd dba 83 mg 0.091 mmol Xantphos 105 mg 0.182 mmol and CsCO 1.48 g 4.55 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at 95 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was diluted with EA 50 mL and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 1 2 to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yl methyl amino ethyl acrylamide 110f 160 mg 22 as a yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 408.0

Step 6 A mixture of 110f 80 mg 0.20 mmol 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 83 mg 0.22 mmol Pd dppf Cl 15 mg 0.02 mmol and KPO 106 mg 0.5 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC EA MeOH 20 1 to give 110 60 mg 48 as light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.63 s 1H 8.46 8.45 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.81 s 1H 7.75 s 1H 7.41 7.34 m 1H 6.83 s 1H 6.65 s 1H 6.19 6.18 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.03 5.95 m 2H 5.72 5.65 m 1H 5.42 5.39 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 4.96 3.98 m 7H 3.71 s 3H 3.53 3.22 m 3H 2.99 s 3H 2.57 s 2H 2.51 s 2H 1.27 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 637 C35H40N8O4 H 

Step 1 A mixture of N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yl methyl amino ethyl acrylamide 110f 120 mg 0.3 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 179 mg 0.36 mmol Pd dppf Cl 23 mg 0.03 mmol and KPO 159 mg 0.75 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1.0 mL was stirred at 90 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC EA MeOH 25 1 to give N 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl methyl amino ethyl prop 2 enamide 111a 150 mg 60 as a light yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 698.2

Step 2 A mixture of 111a 130 mg 0.186 mmol and LiOH.HO 40 mg 0.93 mmol in THF i PrOH water 2.0 mL 1.0 mL 1.0 mL was stirred at rt for 2 h. The mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC DCM MeOH 20 1 to give 111 40 mg 33 as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.53 s 1H 8.25 s 1H 7.77 s 1H 7.47 s 1H 7.39 7.35 t J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.26 7.23 m 1H 7.10 7.08 m 1H 6.64 s 1H 6.18 6.16 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.08 6.00 m 2H 5.85 5.79 m 1H 5.47 5.44 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 4.30 4.28 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.02 3.99 t J 6.4 Hz 1H 3.75 3.69 m 5H 3.47 3.45 m 2H 3.02 2.98 m 5H 2.86 m 2H 1.98 m 4H . ESI LCMS m z 656 C34H34FN7O4S H 

Step 1 To a mixture of 2 methylamino ethanol 5.0 g 66.6 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added a solution of Boc O 15.0 g 67.9 mmol in DCM 20 mL . The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h diluted with EA 100 mL and washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give tert butyl 2 hydroxyethyl methyl carbamate 112a 10.0 g 86 as colorless oil.

Step 2 To a mixture of 112a 9.0 g 51 mmol and EtN 18.6 mL 51 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added TsCl 9.77 g 51 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h and concentrated. The residue was diluted with EA washed with water. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give 2 tert butoxycarbonyl methyl amino ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 112b 10.0 g 61 as light yellow oil. ESI LCMS m z 230.0

Step 3 A mixture of 112b 3.3 g 10 mmol 5 Bromo 3 6 hydroxypyridin 2 ylamino 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 101a 7.4 g 25 mmol and CsCO 4.1 g 12.5 mmol in DMF 40 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 4 h. The mixture partitioned between EA and water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give tert butyl 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl methyl carbamate 112c 1.0 g 22 as a yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 454.9

Step 4 A mixture of 112c 900 mg 1.99 mmol in HCl 5 mL 4 M in 1 4 dioxane 20 mmol was stirred at rt for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give 5 bromo 1 methyl 3 6 2 methylamino ethoxy pyridin 2 ylamino pyridin 2 1H one hydrochloride 112d 660 mg 85 as yellow solid. This material was used for next step directly. ESI LCMS m z 354.9 free base 

Step 5 A mixture of 112d 800 mg 2.27 mmol and EtN 0.79 mL 5.67 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added acryloyl chloride 0.23 mL 2.84 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt or 2 h and quenched with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl N methylacrylamide 112e 250 mg 27 as light yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 407.0

Step 6 A mixture of 112e 200 mg 0.5 mmol 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 185 mg 0.55 mmol Pd dppf Cl 37 mg 0.05 mmol and KPO 265 mg 1.25 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 16 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC EA MeOH 25 1 to give 112 70 mg 22 as light yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 80 C. 8.47 8.45 m 2H 8.34 s 1H 7.51 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.32 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 6.80 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 6.69 6.58 m 1H 6.55 s 1H 6.19 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.03 5.97 m 1H 5.53 bs 1H 4.76 t J 5.1 Hz 1H 4.48 4.46 m 2H 4.32 t J 5.4 Hz 2H 4.21 4.17 m 2H 3.67 t J 5.1 Hz 2H 3.61 s 3H 3.04 s 3H 2.88 bs 2H 2.57 s 2H 2.44 s 2H 1.23 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 638.0 C35H39N7O5 H 

Step 1 A mixture of N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl N methylacrylamide 112e 100 mg 0.25 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 187 mg 0.375 mmol Pd dppf Cl 19 mg 0.025 mmol and KPO 133 mg 0.625 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 0.5 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 6 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC PE EA 1 4 to give N 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl oxy ethyl N methyl prop 2 enamide 113a 100 mg 57 as light yellow solid. MS ESI M H 699.2

Step 2 A mixture of 113a 80 mg 0.115 mmol and LiOH.HO 24 mg 0.573 mmol in THF i PrOH water 3.0 mL 1.0 mL 1.0 mL was stirred at rt for 6 h. The mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC EA MeOH 25 1 to give 113 50 mg 67 as white solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 80 C. 8.42 s 2H 8.35 s 1H 7.52 t J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.43 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.33 7.30 m 2H 6.81 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 6.68 6.59 m 1H 6.19 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 6.05 5.99 m 1H 5.56 m 1H 4.37 4.32 m 2H 3.68 t J 5.4 Hz 2H 3.62 s 3H 3.07 s 3H 2.95 2.86 m 6H 1.91 1.89 m 4H . ESI LCMS m z 657.3 C34H33FN6O5S H 

Step 1 A mixture of N N bis Boc 6 bromopyridin 2 amine 105a 5.0 g 13.4 mmol 5 tert butyl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 4 g 20.0 mmol Pd dba 610 mg 0.67 mmol Xantphos 774 mg 1.34 mmol and CsCO 10.9 g 31.5 mmol in DMF 50 mL was stirred at 95 C. for 7 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was diluted with EA 50 mL washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 9 1 to give a mixture of S N Boc 6 3 bis Boc amino piperidin 1 yl pyridin 2 amine 114a and S N Boc 6 3 Boc amino piperidin 1 yl pyridin 2 amine 114b 2.3 g 35 as yellow solid.

Step 2 A mixture of 114a and 114b 2.3 g 4.69 mmol in HCl 10 mL 4 M in 1 4 dioxane 40 mmol was stirred at rt for 7 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give S tert butyl 6 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 2 ylcarbamate hydrochloride 114c 1.39 g 90 as yellow solid which was used for the next step directly.

Step 3 A mixture of 114c 1.39 g 4.22 mmol acrylic acid 0.3 mL 4.5 mmol HATU 1.7 g 4.5 mmol and DIPEA 3.8 mL 9 mmol in DCM 30 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give S tert butyl 6 3 acrylamidopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 2 ylcarbamate 114d 880 mg 60 as brown oil. The material was used for the next step directly.

Step 4 A mixture of 114d 880 mg 2.53 mmol and TFA 2.0 mL in DCM 10.0 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was concentrated and diluted with EA 30 mL neutralized with 1M NaOH. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC PE EA 1 1 to give S N 1 6 aminopyridin 2 yl piperidin 3 yl acrylamide 114e 440 mg 70 as yellow oil. MS ESI M H 247.2

Step 5 A mixture of 114e 440 mg 1.79 mmol 3 5 dibromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 534 mg 2.0 mmol Pd dba 83 mg 0.091 mmol Xantphos 105 mg 0.182 mmol and CsCO 1.48 g 4.55 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at 95 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was diluted with EA and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 1 2 to give S N 1 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yl piperidin 3 yl acrylamide 114f 220 mg 28 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 433.3

Step 6 A mixture of 114f 86 mg 0.20 mmol 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 83 mg 0.22 mmol Pd dppf Cl 15 mg 0.02 mmol and KPO 106 mg 0.5 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 114 25 mg 19 as gray solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 80 C. 8.39 s 1H 8.00 s 1H 7.82 d J 6.6 Hz 1H 7.32 7.46 m 6H 6.51 s 1H 6.42 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 6.03 6.24 m 3H 5.54 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.65 bs 1H 4.41 bs 2H 4.21 4.07 m 3H 3.94 3.77 m 4H 3.60 s 3H 2.95 bs 2H 2.58 s 2H 2.44 s 2H 1.85 bs 1H 1.63 1.48 m 3H 1.24 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 663 C37H42N8O4 H 

Step 1 A mixture of S N 1 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yl piperidin 3 yl acrylamide 114f 127 mg 0.3 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 179 mg 0.36 mmol Pd dppf Cl 23 mg 0.03 mmol and KPO 159 mg 0.75 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1.0 mL was stirred at 90 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC EA MeOH 25 1 to give N 3S 1 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl 3 piperidyl prop 2 enamide 115a 73 mg 33 as yellow solid. MS ESI M H 724.3

Step 2 A mixture of 115a 73 mg 0.1 mmol and LiOH.HO 40 mg 1 mmol in THF i PrOH water 2.0 mL 1.0 mL 1.0 mL was stirred at rt for 2 h. The mixture was extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 115 20 mg 29 as gray solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 80 C. 8.42 s 1H 8.40 s 1H 8.00 s 1H 7.77 d J 4.5 Hz 1H 7.41 7.29 m 5H 6.44 d J 3 Hz 1H 6.25 6.17 m 2H 5.55 5.50 m 1H 4.35 s 2H 3.98 3.76 m 3H 3.61 s 3H 3.09 2.87 m 7H 1.93 1.87 m 6H 1.71 bs 1H 1.49 1.45 m 2H . ESI LCMS m z 682 C36H36FN7O4S H 

Step 1 A mixture of 3 6 2 aminoethoxyl pyridin 2 ylamino 5 bromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one hydrochloride 103a 1.0 g 2.66 mmol but 2 ynoic acid 268 mg 3.19 mmol HATU 1.21 g 3.19 mmol and DIPEA 1.14 mL 6.65 mmol in DMF 10 mL was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EA and washed with water. The organic layer was separated dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was washed with PE EA 2 mL 20 mL and dried to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl but 2 ynamide 116a 800 mg 74 as light yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 404.9

Step 2 A mixture of 116a 150 mg 0.37 mmol 4 4 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 150 mg 0.445 mmol Pd dppf Cl 28 mg 0.037 mmol and KPO 196 mg 0.925 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 16 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 116 20 mg 10 as light yellow solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.66 s 1H 8.56 8.55 m 1H 7.94 s 1H 7.85 s 1H 7.48 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.38 s 1H 6.87 s 1H 6.49 s 1H 6.44 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.26 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.05 3.97 m 8H 3.72 s 3H 3.59 3.57 m 2H 2.57 s 2H 2.51 s 2H 1.91 s 3H 1.27 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 636.9 C35H37N7O5 H 

Step 1 A mixture of 3 6 2 aminoethoxyl pyridin 2 ylamino 5 bromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one 103a 480 mg 1.42 mmol 2 cyanoacrylic acid 790 mg 2.84 mmol DIPEA 1.2 mL 7.12 mmol and HATU 810 mg 2.13 mmol in DCM 10 mL was stirred at rt for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 1 2 to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl 2 cyanoacrylamide 117a 400 mg 67 as green solid. ESI LCMS m z 420.0

Step 2 A mixture of 117a 300 mg 0.72 mmol 4 fluoro 2 6 oxo 8 thia 4 5 diazatricyclo 7.4.0.02 7 trideca 1 9 2 7 3 triene 5 yl 6 tetra methyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl methyl acetate 108c 430 mg 0.86 mmol Pd dppf Cl 52 mg 0.072 mmol KF 125 mg 2.16 mmol in acetonitrile 10 mL and HO 2 mL was stirred at 75 C. for 3 h under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography PE EA 1 3 to give 2 cyano N 2 6 5 5 fluoro 2 acetoxymethyl 3 4 oxo 6 7 8 9 tetrahydrobenzothiopheno 2 3 d pyridazin 3 yl phenyl 1 methyl 2 oxo 3 pyridyl amino 2 pyridyl oxy ethyl prop 2 enamide 117b 80 mg 15 as white solid. ESI LCMS m z 709.8

Step 3 To a mixture of 117b 80 mg 0.112 mmol in THF 5 mL was added LiOH.HO 10 mg 0.224 mmol in HO 5 mL to pH 10 11. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give 117 12 mg 16 as white solid. The amide bond was partially cleaved under basic conditions. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.57 s 1H 8.29 s 1H 7.99 bs 1H 7.49 t J 8 Hz 2H 7.26 7.24 m 1H 7.12 d J 10 Hz 1H 6.48 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.26 d J 8 Hz 1H 4.41 t J 5 Hz 2H 4.31 bs 2H 4.00 3.98 m 1H 3.72 s 3H 3.63 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 3.58 2.56 m 1H 2.99 t J 5 Hz 2H 2.87 t J 5 Hz 2H 2.00 1.96 m 4H . ESI LCMS m z 668.0 C34H30FN7O5S H 

A mixture of N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl 2 cyanoacrylamide 117a 60 mg 0.144 mmol 444 4 Dimethyl 9 oxo 1 10 diazatricyclo 6.4.0.02 6 dodeca 2 6 7 dien 10 yl 1 2 oxaborolo 4 3 c pyridin 1 3H ol 107g 58 mg 0.173 mmol Pd dppf Cl 11 mg 0.0144 mmol and KF 25 mg 0.432 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL and water 0.5 mL was stirred at 75 C. for 6 h under N. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by prep TLC with PE EA 1 5 to give 118 20 mg 22 as light yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 80 C. 8.43 s 1H 8.34 s 1H 7.56 7.32 m 6H 6.81 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 6.53 s 1H 6.23 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 4.66 3.99 m 8H 3.62 s 3H 3.52 3.43 m 3H 2.58 s 2H 2.45 s 2H 1.24 s 6H . ESI LCMS m z 649 C35H36N8O5 H 

Step 1 A mixture of 3 6 2 aminoethoxyl pyridin 2 ylamino 5 bromo 1 methylpyridin 2 1H one hydrochloride 103a 250 mg 0.66 mmol and EtN 0.23 mL 6.0 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added propionyl chloride 70 uL 0.79 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. The mixture was washed with water 20 mL 2 . The organic layer was dried and concentrated to give N 2 6 5 bromo 1 methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridin 3 ylamino pyridin 2 yloxy ethyl propionamide 119a 140 mg 54 as a light yellow solid. ESI LCMS m z 395.1.

Step 2 A mixture of 119a 120 mg 0.30 mmol compound 9 111 mg 0.33 mmol Pd dppf Cl 23 mg 0.03 mmol and KPO 160 mg 0.75 mmol in CHCN 5 mL and water 1 mL was stirred at 90 C. under Nfor 7 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to get the crude product. It was purified by prep HPLC to give 119 40 mg 21 as a white solid. ESI LCMS m z 626.3

A generalized procedure for a standard biochemical Btk Kinase Assay that can be used to test Formula I compounds is as follows. A master mix minus Btk enzyme is prepared containing 1 Cell Signaling kinase buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 5 mM beta glycerophosphate 2 mM dithiothreitol 0.1 mM NaVO 10 mM MgCl 0.5 M Promega PTK Biotinylated peptide substrate 2 and 0.01 BSA. A master mix plus Btk enzyme is prepared containing 1 Cell Signaling kinase buffer 0.5 M PTK Biotinylated peptide substrate 2 0.01 BSA and 100 ng well 0.06 mU well Btk enzyme. Btk enzyme is prepared as follows full length human wildtype Btk accession number NM 000061 with a C terminal V5 and 6 His tag was subcloned into pFastBac vector Invitrogen Life Technologies for making baculovirus carrying this epitope tagged Btk. Generation of baculovirus is done based on Invitrogen s instructions detailed in its published protocol Bac to Bac Baculovirus Expression Systems Invitrogen Life Technologies Cat. Nos. 10359 016 and 10608 016 . Passage 3 virus is used to infect Sf9 cells to overexpress the recombinant Btk protein. The Btk protein is then purified to homogeneity using Ni NTA column. The purity of the final protein preparation is greater than 95 based on the sensitive Sypro Ruby staining. A solution of 200 M ATP is prepared in water and adjusted to pH 7.4 with 1N NaOH. A quantity of 1.25 L of compounds in 5 DMSO is transferred to a 96 well area Costar polystyrene plate. Compounds are tested singly and with an 11 point dose responsive curve starting concentration is 10 M 1 2 dilution . A quantity of 18.75 L of master mix minus enzyme as a negative control and master mix plus enzyme is transferred to appropriate wells in 96 well area costar polystyrene plate. 5 L of 200 M ATP is added to that mixture in the 96 well area Costar polystyrene plate for final ATP concentration of 40 M. The reaction is allowed to incubate for 1 hour at room temperature. The reaction is stopped with Perkin Elmer 1 detection buffer containing 30 mM EDTA 20 nM SA APC and 1 nM PT66 Ab. The plate is read using time resolved fluorescence with a Perkin Elmer Envision using excitation filter 330 nm emission filter 665 nm and 2emission filter 615 nm. ICvalues are subsequently calculated. Alternatively the Lanthascreen assay can be used to evaluate Btk activity through quantification of its phosphorylated peptide product. The FRET Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer that occurs between the fluorescein on the peptide product and the terbium on the detection antibody decreases with the addition of inhibitors of Btk that reduce the phosphorylation of the peptide. In a final reaction volume of 25 L Btk h 0.1 ng 25 l reaction is incubated with 50 mM Hepes pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl2 2 mM MnCl 2 mM DTT 0.2 mM NaVO4 0.01 BSA and 0.4 M fluorescein poly GAT. The reaction is initiated by the addition of ATP to 25 M Km of ATP . After incubation for 60 minutes at room temperature the reaction is stopped by the addition of a final concentration of 2 nM Tb PY20 detection antibody in 60 mM EDTA for 30 minutes at room temperature. Detection is determined on a Perkin Elmer Envision with 340 nM excitation and emission at 495 nm and 520 nm.

Alternatively an in vitro BTK biochemical assay that quantifies BTK catalyzed tyrosine phosphorylation of a synthetic peptide as detected using a LabChip 3000 microfluidic mobility shift instrument PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. can be conducted. The substrate peptide ProfilerPro FL Peptide 22 Product No. 760366 PerkinElmer has an amino terminal fluorescent 5 carboxyfluorescein group 5 FAM and a tyrosine residue that can be phosphorylated by BTK 5 FAM EEPLYWSFPAKKK NH. Purified recombinant human full length catalytically active BTK protein was obtained from Carna Biosciences Product No. 08 080 Kobe Japan .

BTK assay mixtures contained 50 mM 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazineethanesulfonic acid buffer pH 7.5 10 mM magnesium chloride 0.01 Triton X 100 1 mM dithiothreitol 1 M FL Peptide 22 45 M ATP 1 nM BTK and a titration of up to 10 000 nM test article in a final concentration of 0.5 volume to volume v v DMSO. In the titration experiments each of the test article concentrations 10 or 12 concentrations was tested in duplicate. Blank reactions contained ATP peptide and DMSO but no BTK or test article whereas uninhibited control reactions contained ATP peptide BTK and DMSO but no test article.

Reactions were incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature 22 C. 23 C. in a final volume of 20 L per well in 384 well plates. Ten microliters of BTK plus peptide mixture were added to 10 L of a mixture of ATP and test article or vehicle to initiate the reactions. Reactions were stopped by adding 10 L of 0.25 M ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA at pH 8.0 to each well. In each reaction the residual FL Peptide 22 substrate S and the phospho peptide product P generated were separated using the LabChip 3000 instrument. Electrophoretic separation of molecules of product from molecules of substrate was achieved using downstream and upstream voltages of 500 and 2250 V respectively at an operating pressure of 1 psi. The 5 FAM group present on both the substrate and product peptides was excited at 488 nm the fluorescence at 530 nm was detected and the peak heights were reported.

Data Analysis The extent or percent of conversion of substrate to product was calculated from the corresponding peak heights in the electropherogram using HTS Well Analyzer software version 5.2 PerkinElmer and the following equation conversion 100 where S and P represent the peak heights of the substrate and product respectively. After any baseline signal from blank wells containing no BTK was subtracted from the signal of all test wells the conversion data were converted to fractional activity as shown in Equation 2 where vand vare the conversion in the presence and absence respectively of test article. The conversion observed in the uninhibited control reaction wells containing BTK and DMSO vehicle but no test article was defined to have fractional activity 1 in this case with no test article present v v whereas blank wells with no BTK were defined as having fractional activity 0. Fractional activity was plotted against test article concentration and the data were fit using Genedata Screener software Genedata Basel Switzerland to the tight binding apparent inhibition constant K Morrison equation Williams J. W. and Morrison J. F. 1979 The kinetics of reversible tight binding inhibition. 63 437 67 . The following equation was used to calculate fractional activity and K 

Another generalized procedure for a standard cellular Btk Kinase Assay that can be used to test Formula I compounds is as follows. Ramos cells are incubated at a density of 0.5 10cells ml in the presence of test compound for 1 hr at 37 C. Cells are then stimulated by incubating with 10 g ml anti human IgM F ab for 5 minutes at 37 C. Cells are pelleted lysed and a protein assay is performed on the cleared lysate. Equal protein amounts of each sample are subject to SDS PAGE and western blotting with either anti phosphoBtk Tyr223 antibody Epitomics cat. 2207 1 or phosphoBtk Tyr551 antibody BD Transduction Labs 558034 to assess Btk autophosphorylation or an anti Btk antibody BD Transduction Labs 611116 to control for total amounts of Btk in each lysate.

A generalized procedure for a standard cellular B cell proliferation assay that can be used to test Formula I compounds is as follows. B cells are purified from spleens of 8 16 week old Balb c mice using a B cell isolation kit Miltenyi Biotech Cat 130 090 862 . Testing compounds are diluted in 0.25 DMSO and incubated with 2.5 10purified mouse splenic B cells for 30 min prior to addition of 10 g ml of a goat F ab 2 anti mouse IgM antibody Southern Biotech Cat 1022 14 in a final volume of 100 l. Following 52 hr incubation 1 Ci H thymidine is added and plates are incubated an additional 16 hr prior to harvest using the manufacturer s protocol for SPA H thymidine uptake assay system Amersham Biosciences RPNQ 0130 . SPA bead based fluorescence is counted in a microbeta counter Wallace Triplex 1450 Perkin Elmer .

A generalized procedure for a standard T cell proliferation assay that can be used to test Formula I compounds is as follows. T cells are purified from spleens of 8 16 week old Balb c mice using a Pan T cell isolation kit Miltenyi Biotech Cat 130 090 861 . Testing compounds are diluted in 0.25 DMSO and incubated with 2.5 10purified mouse splenic T cells in a final volume of 100 l in flat clear bottom plates precoated for 90 min at 37 C. with 10 g ml each of anti CD3 BD 553057 and anti CD28 BD 553294 antibodies. Following 24 hr incubation 1 Ci H thymidine is added and plates incubated an additional 36 hr prior to harvest using the manufacturer s protocol for SPA H thymidine uptake assay system Amersham Biosciences RPNQ 0130 . SPA bead based fluorescence was counted in a microbeta counter Wallace Triplex 1450 Perkin Elmer .

A generalized procedure for a standard assay for the inhibition of B cell activity that can be used to test Formula I compounds is as follows. Total mouse splenocytes are purified from spleens of 8 16 week old Balb c mice by red blood cell lysis BD Pharmingen 555899 . Testing compounds are diluted to 0.5 DMSO and incubated with 1.25 10splenocytes in a final volume of 200 l in flat clear bottom plates Falcon 353072 for 60 min at 37 C. Cells are then stimulated with the addition of 15 g ml goat F ab 2 anti mouse IgM Southern Biotech Cat 1022 14 and incubated for 24 hr at 37 C. 5 CO. Following the 24 hr incubation cells are transferred to conical bottom clear 96 well plates and pelleted by centrifugation at 1200 g 5 min. Cells are preblocked by CD16 CD32 BD Pharmingen 553142 followed by triple staining with CD19 FITC BD Pharmingen 553785 CD86 PE BD Pharmingen 553692 and 7AAD BD Pharmingen 51 68981E . Cells are sorted on a BD FACSCalibur flow cytometer BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. and gated on the CD19 7AADpopulation. The levels of CD86 surface expression on the gated population is measured versus test compound concentration.

The following is a procedure for a standard B ALL acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell survival study using an XTT readout to measure the number of viable cells. This assay can be used to test Formula I compounds for their ability to inhibit the survival of B ALL cells in culture. One human B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia line that can be used is SUP B15 a human Pre B cell ALL line that is available from the ATCC.

SUP B15 pre B ALL cells are plated in multiple 96 well microtiter plates in 100 l of Iscove s media 20 FBS at a concentration of 5 10cells ml. Test compounds are then added with a final conc. of 0.4 DMSO. Cells are incubated at 37 C. with 5 COfor up to 3 days. After 3 days cells are split 1 3 into fresh 96 well plates containing the test compound and allowed to grow up to an additional 3 days. After each 24 h period 50 l of an XTT solution is added to one of the replicate 96 well plates and absorbance readings are taken at 2 4 and 20 hours following manufacturer s directions. The reading taken with an OD for DMSO only treated cells within the linear range of the assay 0.5 1.5 is then taken and the percentage of viable cells in the compound treated wells are measured versus the DMSO only treated cells.

Human blood is obtained from healthy volunteers with the following restrictions 1 week drug free non smokers. Blood approximately 20 mls to test 8 compounds is collected by venipuncture into Vacutainer Becton Dickinson and Co. tubes with sodium heparin.

Solutions of Formula I compounds at 10 mM in DMSO are diluted 1 8 in 100 DMSO then are diluted by three fold serial dilutions in 100 DMSO for a ten point dose response curve. The compounds are further diluted 1 12.5 in HO and then an aliquot of 5.5 l of each compound is added in duplicate to a 2 ml 96 well square top tapered V bottom deep well plates Catalog No. 59623 23 Analytical Sales and Services Pompton Plains N.J. 5.5 l of 8 DMSO in HO is added as control and no stimulus wells. Human whole blood HWB 100 l is added to each well. After mixing the plates are incubated at 37 C. 5 CO 100 humidity for 60 minutes. Goat F ab anti human IgM Southern Biotech Cat 2022 14 10 l of a 500 g ml solution 50 g ml final is added to each well except the no stimulus wells with mixing and the plates are incubated for an additional 16 hours. At the end of the 16 hour incubation samples are incubated with fluorescent labeled antibodies for 30 minutes at 37 C. 5 CO 100 humidity. Include induced control unstained and single stains for compensation adjustments and initial voltage settings. Samples are then lysed with PharM Lyse BD Biosciences Pharmingen according to the manufacturer s instructions and fixed in 1 paraformaldehyde in PBS containing 1 bovine serum albumine. Samples are then transferred to a 96 well plate suitable to be run on the BD Biosciences HTS 96 well system on the LSRII machine. Data acquired and Mean Fluorescence Intensity values were obtained using BD Biosciences DIVA Software. Results are initially analyzed by FACS analysis software Flow Jo . The inhibitory concentrations IC50 IC70 IC90 etc. for test compounds is defined as the concentration which decreases by for example 50 the mean fluorescence intensity of CD69 expression on cells that are also CD19 positive and CD27 negative stimulated by anti IgM. The IC70 values are calculated by Genedata Screener using a nonlinear regression curve fit and are shown in Tables 1 and 2.

Efficacy of Formula I compounds are measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 . The CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay including reagents and protocol are commercially available Promega Corp. Madison Wis. Technical Bulletin TB288 . The assay assesses the ability of compounds to enter cells and inhibit cell proliferation. The assay principle is based on the determination of the number of viable cells present by quantitating the ATP present in a homogenous assay where addition of the Cell Titer Glo reagent results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal through the luciferase reaction. The luminescent signal is proportional to the amount of ATP present.

A panel of B cell lymphoma cell lines e.g. BJAB SUDHL 4 TMD8 OCI Ly10 OCI Ly3 WSU DLCL2 are plated into 384 well plate in normal growth medium and serially diluted BTK inhibitors or DMSO alone were added to each well. Cell viability is assessed after 96 hour incubation by CellTiter Glo Promega . Data may be presented as Relative cell viability in BTK inhibitor treated cells relative to DMSO treated control cells. Data points are the mean of 4 replicates at each dose level. Error bars represent SD from the mean.

Procedure Day 1 Seed Cell Plates 384 well black clear bottom microclear TC plates with lid from Falcon 353962 Harvest cells Seed cells at 1000 cells per 54 l per well into 384 well Cell Plates for 3 days assay. Cell Culture Medium RPMI or DMEM high glucose 10 Fetal Bovine Serum 2 mM L Glutamine P S. Incubate O N at 37 C. 5 CO2.

Day 2 Add Drug to Cells Compound Dilution DMSO Plates serial 1 2 for 9 points Add 20 l compounds at 10 mM in the 2nd column of 96 well plate. Perform serial 1 2 across the plate 10 l 20 l 100 DMSO for a total of 9 points using Precision. Media Plates 96 well conical bottom polypropylene plates from Nunc cat. 249946 1 50 dilution Add 147 l of Media into all wells. Transfer 3 l of DMSO compound from each well in the DMSO Plate to each corresponding well on Media Plate using Rapidplate .

Drug Addition to Cells Cell Plate 1 10 dilution Add 6 l of media compound directly to cells 54 l of media on the cells already . Incubate 3 days at 37 C 5 CO2 in an incubator that will not be opened often.

Day 5 Develop Plates Thaw Cell Titer Glo Buffer at room temperature. Remove Cell Plates from 37 C. and equilibrate to room temperature. for about 30 minutes. Add Cell Titer Glo Buffer to Cell Titer Glo Substrate bottle to bottle . Add 30 l Cell Titer Glo Reagent Promega cat. G7572 to each well of cells. Place on plate shaker for about 30 minutes. Read luminescence on Analyst HT Plate Reader half second per well .

Cell viability assays and combination assays Cells were seeded at 1000 2000 cells well in 384 well plates for 16 h. On day two nine serial 1 2 compound dilutions are made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds are further diluted into growth media using a Rapidplate robot Zymark Corp. Hopkinton Mass. . The diluted compounds are then added to quadruplicate wells in 384 well cell plates and incubated at 37 C. and 5 CO2. After 4 days relative numbers of viable cells are measured by luminescence using Cell Titer Glo Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions and read on a Wallac Multilabel Reader PerkinElmer Foster City . EC50 values are calculated using Prism 4.0 software GraphPad San Diego . Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents are added simultaneously or separated by 4 hours one before the other in all assays.

1. An aliquot of 100 l of cell culture containing about 10cells in medium is deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well is added.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literature cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

