---

title: Methods for displaying notifications
abstract: A method includes obtaining, at one or more computers, information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user at a first time, obtaining, at the one or more computers, information associated with the user, and determining, at the one or more computers, a probability that the user will be available at the first time based on the information associated with the user. If the probability that the user will be available at the first time is below a threshold, the method includes delivering the notification to the device associated with the user at a second time prior to the first time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09531651&OS=09531651&RS=09531651
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09531651
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140213
---
Many computing systems and applications use notifications as a way to communicate with the user and provide functionalities and feedback. Typical notifications systems upon determining that a condition is met output a message that can be displayed to a user. Notification messages can be output as examples via email or via a popup message that is displayed by the user interface of an application or operating system.

One example of a notification is a reminder for a calendar event. The user creates a calendar event in a calendar application. The calendar application is configured to deliver a reminder for the event some time before the event starts. This can be useful to help the user to recall that the event is happening and plan to reach the location of the event on time. Another example of a notification can be a task reminder that is output by a task management system.

Many notifications are not effective in that they are not displayed to and or perceived by the user at the correct time. As one example a notification might be ineffective because it is delivered in the midst of many other notifications and is not noticed. As another example a notification might be ineffective because the user is away from the device that is delivering the notification when the notification is triggered. As another example the notification might be ineffective because the device that should deliver the notification to the user is off e.g. because lack of power or because the device is silenced or turned off . As another example the notification might be ineffective because the notification is delivered via a network e.g. the internet and the device that should notify the user is not connected to the network e.g. the device is in a geographical location where the network is not available . In these types of situations the notification may not be delivered to the user at the appropriate time causing the information contained in the notification to become completely useless. For instance receiving a reminder for an event after the event has happened is not useful.

One aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method includes obtaining at one or more computers information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user at a first time obtaining at the one or more computers information associated with the user and determining at the one or more computers a probability that the user will be available at the first time based on the information associated with the user. If the probability that the user will be available at the first time is below a threshold the method includes delivering the notification to the device associated with the user at a second time prior to the first time.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is an apparatus that includes one or more processors and one or more memory devices for storing program instructions used by the one or more processors. The program instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to obtain information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user at a first time obtain information associated with the user and determine a probability that the user will be available at the first time based on the information associated with the user. If the probability that the user will be available at the first time is below a threshold the program instructions cause the one or more processors to deliver the notification to the device associated with the user at a second time prior to the first time.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes obtaining at one or more server computers information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user at a first time obtaining at the one or more server computers behavior information associated with the user ranking at the one or more server computers a plurality of notification delivery strategies based on the behavior information and delivering the notification to the device associated with the user based on a highest ranked delivery strategy from the plurality of delivery strategies.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is an apparatus that includes one or more processors and one or more memory devices for storing program instructions used by the one or more processors. The program instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to obtain information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user at a first time obtain behavior information associated with the user rank a plurality of notification delivery strategies based on the behavior information and deliver the notification to the device associated with the user based on a highest ranked delivery strategy from the plurality of delivery strategies.

Methods for displaying notifications are taught herein. The disclosure herein relates to methods systems and apparatuses for displaying notifications wherein the likelihood that the notifications are displayed to and or perceived by the user at an appropriate time is enhanced. In the methods systems and apparatuses herein notifications that are scheduled for delivery at a future time are analyzed and if it is likely that the notification will not be displayed to the user or perceived by the user at the time scheduled delivery of the notification is modified to increase the likelihood that the notification will be displayed to the user and perceived by the user.

The systems services servers and other computing devices described here are in communication via a network . The network can be one or more communications networks of any suitable type in any combination including wireless networks wired networks local area networks wide area networks cellular data networks and the internet.

The application hosting service can provide access to one or more hosted applications to a defined group of users including operators associated with the user system and the additional user systems . One or more of the hosted applications can be operable to output for display to a user one or more notifications. The notifications can be output by the application hosting service for display at a device associated with the user such as the user system by transmission of signals and or data from the application hosting service to the user system that when interpreted by the user system cause display of the notifications such as by the operating system of the user system or by an application that is executed by the user system .

Each server computer can include memory such as a random access memory device RAM . Any other suitable type of storage device can also be used as the memory . The memory can include code and data that can be accessed by the CPU using a bus . The memory can further include one or more application programs and an operating system . The application programs can include software components in the form of computer executable program instructions that cause the CPU to perform the operations and methods described here.

A storage device can be optionally provided in the form of any suitable computer readable medium such as a hard disc drive a memory device a flash drive or an optical drive. One or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse or a gesture sensitive input device receive user inputs and can output signals or data indicative of the user inputs to the CPU . One or more output devices can be provided such as a display device . The display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT allows output to be presented to a user for example in response to receiving a video signal.

Although depicts the CPU and the memory of each server computer as being integrated into a single unit other configurations can be utilized. The operations of the CPU can be distributed across multiple machines each machine having one or more of processors which can be coupled directly or across a local area or other network. The memory can be distributed across multiple machines such as network based memory or memory in multiple machines. Although depicted here as a single bus the bus of each of each server computer can be composed of multiple buses. Further the storage device can be directly coupled to the other components of the respective server computer or can be accessed via a network and can comprise a single integrated unit such as a memory card or multiple units such as multiple memory cards. The one or more server computers can thus be implemented in a wide variety of configurations.

In the illustrated example information is received from one or more information sources and is provided to a user modeler . The information sources can include one or more devices associated with the user applications that are used by the user including applications executed by one or more devices associated with the user and or applications hosted by one or more server computers such as the application hosting service or any other suitable source of information. The information provided by the information sources can be or include behavior information associated with the user which describes as examples actions taken by the user information describing usage patterns for one or more devices associated with the user and or historical geolocation information that describes the physical location or one or more devices that are associated with the user at certain prior points in time e.g. mobility patterns for the user . Further examples of information associated with the user include data from applications such as calendar information reminder information email information and information describing success or failure of previously attempted notifications. Information associated with the user also includes information received from devices associated with the user such as information describing the state of charge of the battery for one or more devices the volume of system sounds for one or more devices and geolocation information describing the current physical location of the device from which the current physical location of the user is inferred. Numerous other types of information can be received from devices associated with the user reflecting the status of those devices.

The user modeler receives the information from the information sources as input and generates a user model that can output information describing the likely location and or activity that the user is engaged in at the current time and at times subsequent to the current time. As used herein user activities are the activities that the user engages in and can include professional activities recreational activities personal activities etc. User activities can include as examples working sleeping surfing the internet dining watching a movie in the cinema attending a concert in a doctor appointment flying etc. user activity is inferred using the information from the information sources . In one implementation the information sources include calendar entries the physical location of the user based on geolocation information from a device associated with the user and the user s actions in online services such as use of social media services online file storage services online document editing services or other types of online services. Data collected in the past can be used to infer recurring patterns and project these patterns in the future. In addition information sources such as calendar entries may exist that explicitly refer to future times.

The information generated by the user modeler can be utilized to predict such as by calculating a probability whether the user will be available to receive a notification. For example the user modeler can output the activity which the user will most likely be involved in for a current time t and at subsequent times t n where n 1 2 . . . n and represents an increment such as minutes or hours. This information is provided to a notification strategy chooser and is utilized in selecting strategies for delivering notifications.

Requests for display of notifications notification requests are generated by one or more applications and are provided to a notification aggregator . The notification requests can include information describing the application that sent the request the content to be displayed in a notification a time at which the notification is to be displayed and or any other suitable information. The notification aggregator continuously checks for and or receives notification requests from the applications . For example the notification aggregator could receive from the applications notification requests regarding notifications to be sent immediately at the current time t and could also poll the applications for information regarding notifications to be sent at a future time t n. This can be done for example using application programming interfaces APIs that are provided by some or all of the application. The notification requests are aggregated and ordered by the notification aggregator . For example the notifications requests can be ordered based on the time at which corresponding notifications are to be generated and delivered such as by transmission of the corresponding notification to a device that is associated with the user. The notification requests can be stored in the form of a queue or list that is constantly updated by the notification aggregator as new notifications are received.

The notification strategy chooser receives information from the user modeler and the notification aggregator and selects a delivery strategy for delivering the corresponding notification to the users for one of the notification requests received from the notification aggregator . In one implementation for each notification in the list or queue of notification requests that is compiled by the notification aggregator the notification strategy chooser can calculate the probability of success for each of a plurality of delivery strategies based on the information received from the user modeler . The notification strategy chooser then chooses the delivery strategy with the highest probability score.

The delivery strategies are received from a notification strategy repository of pre existing notification strategies each strategy being associated with a success rate that is updated based on the success or failure of each delivery. The success rate can be specific to the user and or can be based on information from deliveries to multiple users. In some implementations success rates are tracked separately for each of the different activities or states that can be output by the user modeler .

The notification strategy repository can in one implementation store each delivery strategy as a set of rules. A description of a delivery strategy might include alternative routing via an alternative device associated with the user. Other strategies might include employing different delivery times or different modalities. As one example a notification strategy can include changing a system sound played when a notification is displayed in order to increase the likelihood that the notification is perceived by the user.

As one example a notification that is due at time t 4 is normally delivered at time t 4. However the notification strategy chooser might select a notification strategy that delivers the notification at an earlier time or a later time based on the information received from the user modeler . As another example a notification from a calendar application that is utilized on a first device such as a computationally enabled mobile telephone i.e. a smart phone is normally delivered using the first device. In situations where based on the information received from the user modeler it is determined that the user is not likely to receive the message via the first device the notification strategy chooser might deliver the notification to a second device such as via an operating system or application of a desktop computer. As another example a different delivery strategy might also be preferred based on the amount of notifications that are delivered in the same timeframe. Thus if too many notifications are delivered by the same method during a certain time period the notification strategy chooser might suggest a different strategy to avoid the same channel and maximizing the chances that the notification will be noticed by the user. For instance a notification scheduled to be delivered by a pop up message could instead be delivered by SMS or email.

The notification strategy chooser outputs information describing or identifying the notification request and the selected notification strategy to a notification router . The notification router delivers a notification to the user using the notification strategy that was selected by the notification strategy chooser . As an example the notification router can generate the notification based on the information received by the notification router such as the notification request and can deliver the notification such as by transmission of data to one or more devices that are associated with the user wherein the data when interpreted is operable to cause display of the notification at the one or more devices. The notification router can also detect whether the notification has been read by the user. For example the notification router can receive an indication from one of the user devices indicating that the user operated e.g. clicked an interface element that is associated with the notification. The notification router then stores this information at the notification strategy repository such as by transmitting a feedback message thereby updating the success rate for the selected strategy under the current conditions.

In operation a notification request is obtained. As used herein obtain encompasses any manner in which signals or data are made available to a computing device and or a processor such as receiving by network transmission retrieving from RAM reading from a storage device or receiving an input from a human machine interface. Operation can include obtaining at one or more computers information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user. The notification request can in some examples specify any or all of a time for delivery a device to make delivery to or a delivery method. As an example a notification request can be obtained as described with respect to the notification strategy chooser .

In operation information associated with the user is obtained such as the user model as described with respect to the user modeler . For example information associated with the user can be obtained by the notification strategy chooser from the user modeler as previously described.

In operation a determination is made as to whether delivery of the notification using a first notification strategy will be successful. The determination can be made in the form of a probability of success. The determination can be made as described with respect to the notification strategy chooser .

In operation the probability or likelihood computed at operation is compared to a threshold. In one example the threshold is a predetermined value. In another example the threshold is a calculated value. For instance the threshold can be a likelihood of success of a second notification strategy.

If the probability is above the threshold the notification is delivered according to the first notification strategy at operation . If the probability is below the threshold the notification is delivered according to the second notification strategy at operation . The process then ends.

In one example the first notification strategy includes delivering the notification at a first time and the second notification strategy includes delivering the notification at a second time. The second time can be prior to the first time. If the likelihood of success of the first strategy is above a threshold the notification is delivered at the first time. If the likelihood of success of the first strategy is below a threshold the notification is delivered at the second time. In some implementations the threshold is the likelihood of successful delivery at the second time.

In another example the first notification strategy includes delivering the notification to a first device and the second notification strategy includes delivering the notification to a second device. If the likelihood of success of the first strategy is above a threshold the notification is delivered to the first device. If the likelihood of success of the first strategy is below a threshold the notification is delivered to the second device. In some implementations the threshold is the likelihood of successful delivery to the second device.

In operation a notification request is obtained. Operation can include obtaining at one or more computers information regarding a notification to be delivered to a device associated with a user. The notification request can in some examples specify any or all of a time for delivery a device to make delivery to or a delivery method. As an example a notification request can be obtained as described with respect to the notification strategy chooser .

In operation information associated with the user is obtained such as the user model as described with respect to the user modeler . For example information associated with the user can be obtained by the notification strategy chooser from the user modeler as previously described.

In operation a plurality of notification strategies are obtained and are ranked based on information associated with the user such as behavior information as described with respect to the notification strategy chooser . At operation the notification is delivered according to the highest ranked strategy as explained for example in connection with the notification router .

The foregoing description describes only some exemplary implementations of the described techniques. Other implementations are available. For example the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

The implementations of the computer devices e.g. clients and servers described herein can be realized in hardware software or any combination thereof. The hardware can include for example computers intellectual property IP cores application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays optical processors programmable logic controllers microcode microcontrollers servers microprocessors digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit. In the claims the term processor should be understood as encompassing any of the foregoing hardware either singly or in combination. The terms signal and data are used interchangeably. Further portions of each of the clients and each of the servers described herein do not necessarily have to be implemented in the same manner.

Operations that are described as being performed by a single processor computer or device can be distributed across a number of different processors computers or devices. Similarly operations that are described as being performed by different processors computers or devices can in some cases be performed by a single processor computer or device.

Although features may be described above or claimed as acting in certain combinations one or more features of a combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

The systems described herein such as client computers and server computers can be implemented using general purpose computers processors with a computer program that when executed carries out any of the respective methods algorithms and or instructions described herein. In addition or alternatively for example special purpose computers processors can be utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the methods algorithms or instructions described herein.

Some portions of above description include disclosure presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of implementations of this disclosure could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

At least one implementation of this disclosure relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable storage medium that can be accessed by the computer.

All or a portion of the embodiments of the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from for example a non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium. The computer program when executed can carry out any of the respective techniques algorithms and or instructions described herein. A non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device that can for example tangibly contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with any processor. The non transitory medium can be for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for tangibly containing storing communicating or transporting electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

