---

title: Single button mobile telephone using server-based call routing
abstract: Implementations disclose a single button mobile telephone using server-based call routing. A method of an implementation of the disclosure includes receiving, by a processing device, datasets from an apparatus worn by a user, wherein the datasets correspond to an event experienced by the user, in response to a signal to initiate a communication with the user, analyzing, by the processing device, the datasets to determine a type of the event, identifying, by the processing device, one of a plurality of destinations based on the analysis of the datasets and the determined type of the event, and routing, by the processing device, the signal to the identified destination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143600&OS=09143600&RS=09143600
owner: NUMERA, INC.
number: 09143600
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140806
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 439 571 filed on Apr. 4 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 516 478 filed Apr. 4 2011 which the disclosures of each are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to health care based monitoring systems and more specifically to a single button mobile telephone using server based call routing.

For certain age groups such as the elderly or people that engage in certain dangerous activities such as firefighters and soldiers it is desirable to track and understand human activity automatically. For example a person that has fallen may be injured unconscious etc. and needs emergency assistance. In such circumstances relying on the person to initiate a call to a public safety access point PSAP e.g. 9 1 1 emergency services an automated emergency call center etc. is not practical. Moreover even if the person is capable of placing the call the PSAP may be located outside the geographical jurisdiction for providing emergency services. An emergency services person located at a PSAP may need to manually place a second call to the local fire station police or Emergency Medical Services EMS squad thereby wasting precious time that could be used to save the person s life. Further if the person is unconscious they would not be able to relate the nature of their injuries nor their physical location.

A wearable device may be worn by the user and the wearable device may monitor the activities and or health of the user using a variety of sensors and or components e.g. GPS units a blood pressure unit an accelerometer etc. . The wearable device may also provide a simple interface e.g. a single button to allow a user to initiate a voice call e.g. to request help . However these simplified interfaces e.g. the single button may not allow a user to choose a destination for the voice call. The wearable device may be configured to call a single destination e.g. a PSAP in response to a user request e.g. in response to the user pushing the button and may not be able to initiate voice calls to other destinations in response to the user request.

Embodiments of the invention provide an apparatus wearable by a user for automatically contacting a public safety access point PSAP . The wearable device includes several sensors for obtaining datasets. One of datasets is a location of a user obtained from an aGPS receiver. The wearable device also includes a cellular transceiver. The cellular transceiver transmits the datasets to a cloud computing system receives emergency assistance instructions from the cloud computing system and contacts a safety access point PSAP e.g. 9 1 1 emergency services an automated emergency call center etc. based on one or more of the location of the user data datasets received from the wearable device and a subscription level account of a user. The wearable device further includes a button which the user may use e.g. by pressing the button to initiate a voice call.

In one embodiment the cloud computing system is configured to receive datasets of raw measurements based on an event from the wearable device via the network where one of the datasets is audio. In one embodiment the datasets may include audio recoded by an audio capturing module such as microphones and one or both of acceleration from an accelerometer and change in orientation e.g. rotation angles change calculated based on accelerometer magnetometer and gyroscope measurements. The audio data may originate from the user s voice the user s body and the environment. Optionally the datasets may include data received from other sensors such as data from external health sensors e.g. an EKG blood pressure device sphygmomanometer a weight scale a glucometer a pulse oximeter . The clouding computing system may determine whether the event is an activity of daily life ADL a fall or other type of accident or an inconclusive event.

In one embodiment the cloud computing system may route the voice call to a destination based on the datasets and audio data received from the wearable device. The cloud computing system may additionally use account or subscription information data to identify a destination for routing the voice call. In one embodiment the cloud computing system may monitor the status of the voice call and may route the voice call to a second destination based on the status of the voice call.

In one embodiment each of the wearable devices is operable to communicate with a corresponding one of users e.g. via a microphone speaker and voice recognition software external health sensors e.g. an EKG blood pressure device weight scale glucometer via for example a short range over the air OTA transmission method e.g. BlueTooth WiFi etc. a call center a first to answer system and care giver and or family member and the distributed cloud computing system via for example a long range OTA transmission method e.g. over a 3Generation 3G or 4Generation 4G cellular transmission network such as a Long Term Evolution LTE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network etc. .

Each wearable device is configured to detect a predefined state of a user. The predefined state may include a user physical state e.g. a user fall inside or outside a building a user fall from a bicycle a car incident involving a user a user taking a shower etc. or an emotional state e.g. a user screaming a user crying etc. . As will be discussed in more detail below the wearable device may include multiple sensors for detecting a predefined user state. For example the wearable user device may include an accelerometer for measuring an acceleration of the user a magnetometer for measuring a magnetic field associated with the user s change of orientation a gyroscope for providing a more precise determination of orientation of the user and a microphone for receiving audio. Based on data received from the above sensors the wearable device may identify a suspected user state and then categorize the suspected user state as an activity of daily life a confirmed predefined user state or an inconclusive event. The wearable user device may then communicate with the distributed cloud computing system to obtain a re confirmation or change of classification from the distributed cloud computing system . In another embodiment the wearable user device transmits data provided by the sensors to the distributed cloud computing system which then determines a user state based on this data.

In one embodiment the wearable device includes a low power processor e.g. low power processing device to process data receive from sensors and or detect anomalous sensor inputs. The low power processor may cause a second processing device to further analyze the sensor inputs e.g. may wake up a main CPU . If the second processing device determines that there is possibly an anomalous event in progress the second processing device may send dataset to the distributed cloud computing system . In one embodiment if the distributed cloud computing system concludes there is an anomalous event the distributed cloud computing system may instruct the wearable device to initiate a voice call.

In one embodiment the wearable user device may also obtain audio data from one or more microphones on the wearable device . For example the wearable user device may record the user s voice and or sounds which are captured by the one or more microphones and may provide the recorded sounds and or voice to the distributed cloud computing system for processing e.g. for voice or speech recognition .

In one embodiment the wearable devices may continually or periodically gather obtain data from the sensors and or the one or more microphones e.g. gather obtain datasets and audio data and the wearable devices may transmit these datasets to the distributed cloud computing system . The datasets may be transmitted to the distributed cloud computing system at periodic intervals or when a particular event occurs e.g. user pushes a button on the wearable device or a fall is detected . In one embodiment the datasets may include data indicative of measurements or information obtained by the sensors which may be within or coupled to the wearable device . For example the datasets may include temperature readings e.g. 98.5 degrees Fahrenheit measurements obtained from an accelerometer e.g. a rate of acceleration a GPS location e.g. GPS or longitude latitude coordinates etc. In one embodiment the wearable device may transmit a dataset per sensor e.g. one dataset for the accelerometer one data set for an aGPS receiver etc. In another embodiment the wearable device may combine data received from multiple sensors into a dataset.

Cloud computing provides computation software data access and storage services that do not require end user knowledge of the physical location and configuration of the system that delivers the services. The term cloud refers to one or more computational services e.g. servers connected by a computer network.

The distributed cloud computing system may include one or more computers configured as a telephony server communicatively connected to the wearable devices the Internet and one or more cellular communication networks including for example the public circuit switched telephone network PSTN . The distributed cloud computing system may further include one or more computers configured as a Web server communicatively connected to the Internet for permitting each of the users to communicate with a call center first to answer systems and care givers and or family . The web server may also provide an interface for users to interact with the distributed cloud computing system e.g. to access their accounts profiles or subscriptions to access stored datasets and or audio data etc. The distributed cloud computing system may further include one or more computers configured as a real time data monitoring and computation server communicatively connected to the wearable devices for receiving measurement data e.g. datasets for processing measurement data to draw conclusions concerning a potential predefined user state for transmitting user state confirmation results and other commands back to the wearable devices for storing and retrieving present and past historical predefined user state data from a database which may be employed in the user state confirmation process and in retraining further optimized and individualized classifiers that can in turn be transmitted to the wearable device . In one embodiment the web server may store and retrieve present and past historical predefined user state data instead of the real time data monitoring and computation serve or the database .

In one embodiment the wearable devices may include a button which a user may use to initiate voice calls. For example a user may push the button on the device to initiate a voice call in order to obtain assistance or help e.g. because the user has slipped or fallen or because the user requires medical assistance . As discussed above the wearable devices may periodically transmit datasets to the distributed cloud computing system . In one embodiment the wearable devices may also transmit datasets to the distributed cloud computing system when the user press or pushes the button on the wearable devices . In one embodiment the wearable devices may be single button devices e.g. devices which only have one button which provide a simplified interface to users.

In one embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may receive a request from the wearable device to initiate the voice call. The distributed cloud computing system may also receive datasets from the wearable device associated with an event experienced by the user. After receiving the request to initiate the voice call the distributed cloud computing system may analyze the datasets to determine whether the event experienced by the user is an activity of daily life ADL a confirmed fall or an inconclusive event. In another embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may identify a destination for routing the voice call based on the analysis of the datasets. For example if the distributed cloud computing system analyzes the datasets and determines that the event is a confirmed fall the distributed cloud computing system may identify a first to answer system e.g. a 911 or emergency response call center as destination for the voice call. In another example if the distributed cloud computing system analyzes the datasets and is unable to determine what event occurred e.g. an inconclusive event the distributed cloud computing system may identify a family member as destination for the voice call. After identifying a destination for the voice call the distributed cloud computing system routes the voice call to the identified destination.

In one embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may also analyze audio data received from a wearable device to determine what event has happened to a user. For example the wearable device may provide audio data e.g. a recording of the user s voice or other sounds to the distributed cloud computing system . The distributed cloud computing system may analyze the sound data and may determine that a user is asking for help e.g. based on the user s words in the recording . The distributed cloud computing system may identify a destination for the voice call based on the audio data and or the datasets received from the wearable device and may route the voice call to the identified destination. The audio data may be used in conjunction with the datasets to identify a destination for routing the voice call.

In another embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may monitor the status of the voice call after it routes the voice call to the identified destination. For example the distributed cloud computing system may route either automatically or based on an input from an administrator or call center agent the voice call to a family member . The distributed cloud computing system may monitor the voice call and may determine that the family member did not answer the voice call. The distributed cloud computing system may then route the voice call to a second destination e.g. to a call center based on the status of the voice call e.g. based on the voice call failing to connect at the first destination .

In one embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may also use subscription data e.g. information associated with a user s account or subscription to a service to identify destinations for routing the voice call. For example a user may have a higher tier level subscription which specifies that voice calls initiated by the user via the button on the wearable device should be routed to a live person such as a call center or a first to answer system e.g. a 911 response center . In another example a user may have a lower tier level subscription which specifies that voice calls initiated by the user via the button on the wearable device should be routed to family member first and then to a call center if the family member is not able to answer the voice call. The subscription data may be used in conjunction with the datasets and or audio data to identify a destination for routing the voice call.

In a further embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may also use a time of day and or a geographic location to identify destinations for routing a voice call. For example if a request to initiate a voice all is received in the evening e.g. 7 00 PM the distributed cloud computing system may route the voice call to a call center but if a request to initiate a voice call is received during the morning e.g. 10 30 AM the distributed cloud computing system may route the voice call to a family member . In a further example the distributed cloud computing system may determine that the wearable device which is worn by the user is not located within the home of the user e.g. the user has left or is outside of a specific geographic region such as the user s home and may route the voice call to a call center . If the wearable device is located within the user s home the distributed cloud computing system may route the voice call to a family member .

The cellular module is also configured to receive commands from and transmit data to the distributed cloud computing system via a 3G 4G and or other wireless protocol transceiver over the cellular transmission network . The cellular module is further configured to communicate with and receive position data from an aGPS receiver and to receive measurements from the external health sensors e.g. sensors shown in via a short range BlueTooth transceiver or other equivalent short range transceiver such as a WiFi transceiver or via a direct connection to one or more health sensors e.g. the health sensors may be directly attached coupled to the wearable device .

In addition to recording audio data for fall analysis the cellular module is further configured to permit direct voice communication between the user and the PSAP e.g. 9 1 1 an emergency response center etc. not shown in the figures a call center first to answer systems e.g. a fire station a police station a physician s office a hospital etc. or care givers and or family via a built in speaker and an amplifier . Either directly or via the distributed cloud computing system the cellular module is further configured to permit the user to conduct a conference connection with one or more of a PSAP the call center the first to answer systems and or care givers and or family . The cellular module may receive operate one or more input and output indicators e.g. one or more mechanical and touch switches not shown a vibrator LEDs etc. . The wearable device also includes an on board battery power module .

The wearable device may also include a button . The button may allow a user to provide user input to the wearable device . For example the user may press or push the button to initiate a voice call to one or more of a call center first to answer systems e.g. a fire station a police station a physician s office a hospital etc. or care givers and or family . In another example a user may use the button to answer questions during a voice call e.g. push the button once for yes and push the button twice for no . In another example the user may indicate that the wearable device should start collecting data e.g. datasets such as health data audio data location data etc. and or send data to the distributed cloud computing system using the button .

The wearable device may also include empty expansion slots and or connectors not shown to collect readings from other sensors i.e. an inertial measurement unit a pressure sensor for measuring air pressure or attitude a heart rate sensor blood perfusion sensor temperature sensor etc. These other sensors may be coupled to the device via the expansion slots and or connectors to provide additional datasets or information to the distributed cloud computing system .

In one embodiment the wearable device may collect gather and or obtain information using a variety of components. For example the wearable device may obtain orientation and or movement data e.g. information about how a user who is wearing the wearable device has moved using the accelerometer the magnetometer and or the gyroscope . In another example the wearable device may determine the location e.g. location data such as GPS coordinates of the wearable device and the user who is wearing or holding the wearable device using the aGPS receiver . In a further example the wearable device may collect health data e.g. heart rate blood pressure sugar levels temperature etc. using sensors not shown in the figures which may be attached to the wearable device and or may communicate with the wearable device using the Bluetooth transceiver . In yet another example the wearable device may obtain audio data e.g. voice and or sounds using the microphone or a plurality of microphones now shown in the figures .

In one embodiment the wearable device may obtain and or generate datasets e.g. orientation movement data health data location data audio data using these components and may transmit these datasets to the distributed cloud computing system . In another embodiment the wearable device may periodically transmit data sets to the distributed cloud computing system . For example the wearable device may transmit the datasets once every 5 seconds or once every 30 seconds. In another embodiment the wearable device may transmit the datasets when certain criteria are met e.g. when an accelerometer detects an acceleration above a certain threshold indicating a possible fall or when the aGPS receiver determines that the wearable devices has left a certain location . In a further embodiment the wearable device may transmit datasets when a user input is received. For example the wearable device may send the datasets when the user presses or pushes the button in order to initiate a voice call.

In one embodiment the wearable device may process the datasets prior to providing the datasets to the distributed cloud computing system . For example the wearable device may process motion and or orientation data to make an initial determination as to whether a user event e.g. a fall or some other accident has occurred. The distributed cloud computing system may further process the datasets in addition to the processing performed by the wearable device . In another embodiment the wearable device may provide the datasets to the distributed cloud computing system without first processing the datasets and may allow the distributed cloud computing system to process the datasets. In one embodiment the distributed cloud computing system may have more processing power e.g. more CPUs and may be better able to process and or analyze the datasets than the wearable device

The telephony server may receive requests from users wearable devices to initiate voice calls e.g. user pushes a button on the wearable device to initiate a voice call and may route the voice calls to one or more destinations based on datasets such as audio data health data movement orientation data and location data received from a wearable device. The telephony server includes a call receiver a PSTN interface an IP telephony interface and a call monitor .

The call receiver may receive the request from the user e.g. from the wearable device to initiate the voice call. For example the user may push button on the wearable device to initiate a voice call and the call receiver may receive the request to initiate the voice call from the wearable device. In one embodiment the wearable device may provide the datasets e.g. via a data connection directly to the data monitoring server and or the web server for processing. In an alternative embodiment the call receiver may receive datasets from the wearable device and forward them to the data monitoring server and or the web server for processing. The call receiver may provide the datasets to the data monitoring server for processing. The data monitoring server may analyze the datasets and or audio data received from the wearable device to determine whether an event experienced by a user is an ADL a confirmed fall or an inconclusive event as discussed in more detail below. Based on the determination about the event the data monitoring server may instruct the telephony server to route the voice call to one or more destinations. For example if the data monitoring server determines that an event is a fall the data monitoring server may instruct the telephony server to route the call to a first to answer system or to an emergency call center. In another example if the data monitoring server determines that an event is an ADL the data monitoring server may instruct the telephony server to route the call to a family member a general call center or an automated answering service. Destinations may include but are not limited to landline telephones cellular telephones IP phones call centers first to answer systems and or public safety access points PSAPs e.g. 9 1 1 emergency services an automated emergency call center etc. .

The PSTN interface may route the call to a public circuit switched telephone network e.g. a landline telephone . For example the PSTN interface may be used to route the call to a person s home phone number. The IP telephony interface may route the call to an IP telephone system. The IP telephone interface may also encode decode audio data e.g. analog voice data into digital data. In one embodiment one or more of the PSTN interface and the IP telephony interface may route a voice call to a cellular phone network e.g. route the call to a cellular phone .

The call monitor may monitor the status of a call e.g. whether a call is answered by the destination whether a call is dropped monitor voice quality etc. . Based on the status of the call the telephony server may route the call to a second destination. For example if a call is routed to a first destination e.g. a family member s cell phone and call monitor determines that the call was not answered the telephony server may re route the call to a second destination e.g. a call center . In another example if the call monitor determines that a call was dropped e.g. a cell phone call drops the call monitor may re route the call to a second destination e.g. from a family member s cell phone to a first to answer system. The destination database may store a list of destinations e.g. a list of phone numbers call centers etc. which may be used to route the voice call. In one embodiment the telephony server may route voice calls using the list of destinations stored in the destination database . In another embodiment the data monitoring server may provide the telephony server with a destination to use for routing the voice call.

As discussed above the data monitoring server may analyze and or process datasets such as location data health data time data orientation movement data etc. and or audio data to determine whether an event experienced by a user is an ADL a confirmed fall or other accident or an inconclusive event. The data monitoring server includes a dataset analyzer and an audio data analyzer .

The dataset analyzer may analyze the datasets provided by the wearable device to classify an event and or determine what event occurred. For example the dataset analyzer may analyze motion data e.g. acceleration change in direction or orientation etc. to determine whether a user has fallen. In another example the dataset analyzer may also use health data e.g. elevated heart rate increase in body temperature to determine whether a user has fallen or experienced some other type of accident or event. In a further example the dataset analyzer may analyze location data e.g. GPS coordinates to identify where an event occurred. This may allow the distributed computing system to route a voice call to a destination e.g. a call center geographically close to the location of the event or to route the voice call to the nearest family member. The audio data analyzer may analyze audio data e.g. voices or sounds to determine whether an event such as a fall or an accident has occurred. For example the audio data analyzer may analyze the speech of a user e.g. may determine whether a user is yelling for help . The data monitoring serve may also provide an interactive voice response system which may be used to gather user input to help determine whether an event such as a fall or an accident has occurred. For example the interactive voice response system may ask the user do you require medical attention or have you suffered an accident. A user may provide answers or feedback using the wearable device e.g. using the microphones speakers in the wearable device and the audio data analyzer may process the user s answers or feedback.

The web server may provide an external interface for users to interact with the distributed cloud computing system . The web server includes a portal e.g. a web portal or other type of interface application a data storage and a subscription database . The web server may allow a user to update subscription information e.g. change to a higher or lower subscription view datasets and audio data stored on the data monitoring server and or set preferences for destinations when routing voice calls.

The subscription database may store information or data related to user subscriptions and accounts. In one embodiment the subscription database may store data related to the level of service a user is subscribed to. For example a user may have a higher level e.g. premium subscription which indicates that calls should be routed to a PSAP rather than routed to an automated call center. In another example a user may have a lower level e.g. lower tier subscription which indicates that a call should be routed to a family member first and that the call should be routed to a PSAP only if the family member does not answer the call. The subscription database may also store rules and or preferences for determining destinations for routing a voice call. For example the subscription database may store a rule indicating that at certain times of the data voice calls should be routed to different destinations. In another example the subscription database may store a rule which indicates different destinations based on the type of the event e.g. whether the event is a fall an ADL or an inconclusive event .

The data storage may store datasets audio data and or other data received from the wearable devices. The datasets and data stored in the data storage may be used to maintain a record of events and activities which a user experiences.

In one embodiment the web server and the data monitoring server may store information and may process use information using representational state transfer architecture REST . In another embodiment the web server and the data monitoring server may store information and may process use information user other types of systems such as relational databases hierarchical databases etc.

In one embodiment the telephony server may receive destinations for routing voice calls from the data monitoring server . In another embodiment the telephony server may use the analysis or determinations obtained by the data monitoring server e.g. by analyzing data sets and or audio data and may identify which destination should be used for routing the voice calls. Although the telephony server the data monitoring server and the web server are shown as separate servers in other embodiments one or more of the telephony server the data monitoring server and the web server could be combined into a single device e.g. a single server .

Referring to the method starts with the computing system receiving datasets associated with an event experienced by a user block . As discussed above the datasets may be transmitted periodically to the computing system from a wearable device or may be transmitted in response to a user input e.g. user pushes a button on the wearable device . At block the computing system receives a request to initiate a voice call. For example the user may push a button on the wearable device and the wearable device may send a request to initiate a voice call to the computing system. In response to the request the computing system may analyze one or more datasets to determine whether the event experienced by the user is an ADL a confirmed fall or other type of accident and or inconclusive at block . For example the computing system may analyze the datasets to determine whether a user has slipped or fallen e.g. whether move data indicates a sudden increase in acceleration or change in orientation . In another example the computing system may also analyze health data e.g. heart rate blood pressure etc. to determine what type of event the user has experienced. In a further example the computing system may use location data e.g. the GPS location of a user and or the time of day to determine what type of event the user has experienced.

In one embodiment the computing system may employ machine learning when processing and or analyzing datasets. The computing system may initially process training datasets in order to train the computing system. For example the computing system may process the training datasets which may have expected results. The computing system may be trained to reach the expected results e.g. the computing system may store rules thresholds state machines etc. generated using the training datasets . The computing system may also use user input to refine the processing and or analyzing of the datasets. For example a user e.g. an administrator may analyze datasets and classify an event. The computing system may store associate the datasets with the event type and may use this association when processing future datasets.

At block the computing system identifies one of a plurality of destinations based on the datasets. For example the computing system may determine that the datasets indicated a fall or other type of accident and the computing system may identify a PSAP as a destination for routing the voice call. In another example the computing system may determine that the datasets indicate an ADL and may identify a call center or an automated answering service as a destination for routing the voice call. The computing system routes the voice call to the identified destination at block .

Referring to the method starts with the computing system receiving datasets associated with an event experienced by a user block . At block the computing system receives a request to initiate a voice call. For example the user may push a button on the wearable device and the wearable device may send a request to initiate a voice call to the computing system. The computing system receives audio data from the wearable device at block . For example the computing system may receive recorded voices and or sounds which the wearable device records after the user pushes a button to initiate a voice call. In response to the request the computing system may analyze one or more datasets and the audio data to determine whether the event experienced by the user is an ADL a confirmed fall or other type of accident and or inconclusive at block . For example one or more of health data orientation movement data location data time data e.g. the time of day may be used to determine what type of event the user experienced. In one embodiment the computing system may process the audio data to determine what type of event the user experienced. For example the audio data may include a user s cries for help and the computing system may process the audio data and determine that the event was a fall or other type of accident. In another example if the audio data indicates that the user is not speaking or making any noises the computing system may determine that the user is unconscious and unable to respond and may determine that a fall or other type of accident has occurred.

At block the computing system identifies one of a plurality of destinations based on the datasets and the audio. For example the computing system may determine that the datasets and audio data indicated a fall or other type of accident e.g. based on a sudden change in orientation and a user s cries for help and the computing system may identify a PSAP as a destination for routing the voice call. The computing system routes the voice call to the identified destination at block .

Referring to the method starts with the computing system receiving datasets associated with an event experienced by a user block . At block the computing system receives a request to initiate a voice call. In response to the request the computing system may analyze one or more datasets to determine whether the event experienced by the user is an ADL a confirmed call or other type of accident and or inconclusive at block . At block the computing system identifies one of a plurality of destinations based on the datasets. The computing system routes the voice call to the identified destination at block .

At block the computing system monitors the status of the call to determine whether the voice call was answered at the identified destination. If the voice call was answered at the first destination the method ends. If the voice call was not answered at the first destination the computing system routes the voice call to a second destination from the plurality of destinations at bock . In one embodiment the computing system may identify the second destination based on one or more of a user s subscription e.g. subscription account information rules or preferences associated with the destinations datasets e.g. location data health data orientation data etc. received from the wearable device and audio data received from the wearable device.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker . In one embodiment the video display the alpha numeric devices and the cursor control device may be combined into a single device such as a touch screen.

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one embodiment the instructions may include instructions to execute a server such as the telephony server the real time data monitoring server and or the web server of . While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as initiating identifying receiving analyzing routing monitoring or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. Moreover the words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

