---

title: Techniques for measuring above-the-fold page rendering
abstract: Techniques for measuring above-the-fold (ATF) page rendering are provided. Visible objects for an ATF portion of a browser page are identified. A start and end time for each visible object is recorded. Furthermore, a total elapsed time to finish loading each of the visible objects to the ATF portion of a browser is determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473366&OS=09473366&RS=09473366
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09473366
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 284 371 filed on Nov. 21 2005 the benefit of priority of which is claimed hereby and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to data processing and more particularly to techniques for measuring above the fold ATF page rendering.

A growing number of individuals enterprises and organizations have developed their own World Wide Web WWW sites and or WWW browser pages. These sites and pages may be regularly modified and maintained by more astute entities because it is becoming increasingly clear that the world economy is being driven by electronic commerce of the Internet. In fact the annual growth rate of electronic commerce has been exponential in recent years.

With this in mind capturing and maintaining customers or users at a website are important to an entity s ability to remain competitive and grow its business. Studies have indicated that a user s perception of a WWW site s performance is directly tied to when a user believes that the first displayed browser page has been received and is usable.

Current techniques measure a performance of a site or page by determining when a first page is completely loaded into a browser and becomes viewable and usable to a user. However this approach is not acceptable and may not adequately reflect the true problem.

This is so because a user actually perceives that a page is usable once that user views information associated with the page within the user s browser. Furthermore a single page will span beyond the immediate viewing area of the user. That is a single page may have some of its content viewable via browser scrolling. So existing techniques are not obtaining an adequate measure of the problem which is meaningful for purposes of evaluating perceived user perception of a given browser page or WWW site. The existing techniques measure when the first page loads but not when just viewable content is loaded.

In an embodiment an above the fold ATF measuring system is provided within a networked environment. The ATF measuring system includes an ATF measuring service and a log. The ATF measuring service receives a browser page and calculates an elapsed time from a beginning to an ending time for loading an ATF portion of a browser page within a browser. The log is for housing an identity of the browser page and the calculated elapsed time associated with rendering the ATF portion of the browser page to the browser.

Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Methods and systems for measuring above the fold ATF page rendering are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details.

The ATF measuring system includes an ATF measuring service and a log . In some embodiments the ATF measuring system may also include a throttling service and or a requestor machine configuration service . Each of these will now be discussed in turn.

ATF refers to a viewable area within a browser that can be seen by a user on a display without scrolling. So a single browser page most likely span beyond the initial viewing area of the browser as presented on a user s display. The portion that is viewable within the browser on the user s display is referred to as ATF and the portion that may be seen via scrolling within the browser is referred to as below the fold BTF . Stated another way the fold is pixel dimensions above which objects and content are viewable referred to as ATF and below which objects and content are not viewable unless scrolling is performed by the user referred to as BTF .

The ATF measuring service obtains a measure of an elapsed time or time to load for viewable objects and content which are ATF. This is a more accurate representation of a user s perception of a web page s or web site s performance which will then give enterprises a better indication as to how to capture and keep users and how to improve perceptions of their web pages and web site. As will be demonstrated below the ATF measuring system and its components can also assist in pinpointing particular problem areas with objects or content located within a web or browser page and ATF.

The ATF measuring service measures ATF loading time for a browser page and can perform a variety of other beneficial processes. To do this the fold is acquired or determined for a given browser page being evaluated. A variety of techniques may be used to acquire dimensions associated with defining the fold. For example the fold may be predefined to be a set number of pixels such as 600 pixels. Alternative the fold dimensions may be supplied to the ATF measuring service as a runtime parameter or configuration profile. Still further an identity of a requestor or a requestor s device or environment may be used to lookup fold dimensions. In fact any technique to define the fold may be used with the embodiments presented herein.

During operation of the ATF measuring system the ATF measuring service receives a browser page from a requestor. The browser page is submitted to the ATF measuring service for purposes of determining the page s ATF load time. Again the fold definition may be obtained with the browser page before the browser page is received or after the browser page is received.

In an embodiment the ATF measuring service may receive the browser page as a Universal Resource Locator or Uniform Resource Locator link URL . So a requestor may submit an URL over a network to the ATF measuring service for processing. In response to this the ATF measuring service produces a log having the ATF loading time for the browser page and or returns the ATF loading time to the requestor once the browser page is processed.

Next the ATF measuring service identifies each viewable object or piece of content being rendered within the browser page and occurring ATF. The browser page will identify the objects that it displays such as images sounds video text etc. Additionally a single browser page may include multiple viewing objects of a single type e.g. audio video image text etc. .

As visible objects that occur ATF are loaded their beginning and ending times are noted. A variety of techniques may be used to achieve this. For example a browser s dynamic linked library DLL modules or other Application Programming Interface API modules will typically raise events as viewing objects are rendered to a browser. These events can be looked for and locations for each viewing object inspected to ensure it is ATF and a timer may be started and noted once rendering initiates and then further check pointed after each viewing object is loaded ATF. Of course other techniques may be used as well some may require modifications to a browser and some may utilize existing browser API calls as described above.

Once all viewing objects occurring above the fold are detected as being loaded the total elapsed time represents the ATF loading time for that browser page. The elapsed time can then be used to analyze the browser page relative to performances of other browser pages and or predefined thresholds.

The ATF measuring system also includes a log . The log may be maintained as a data structure in memory storage and or a data store such as a database directory and or data warehouse. The log is written to by the ATF measuring service as the ATF measuring service loads the viewing objects within the browser.

In an embodiment the ATF measuring service records a variety of useful information in the log during the processing of the browser page. For example the ATF measuring service may record an URL for the browser page an identifier tier a viewing object within the browser page pixel locations for each viewing object a start or beginning time for each view object as it is loaded to the browser and an ending or final time for each object once it is completely loaded to the ATF portion of the browser page within the browser. The ending or final time may be viewed as a running or elapsed time from when the very first viewing object was initially processed for loading. These individual start and end times for each viewing objects recording within the log permits subsequent analysis to identify particularly troublesome viewing objects. For example if a particular image viewing object is always initially started first for loading above the fold but is also the last viewing object completely loaded ATF then this viewing object maybe better served if located BTF.

According to an embodiment the ATF measuring service may also sort the log such that the final elapsed or ending time for the last loaded viewing object ATF is presented as a first entry within the log. This permits the log to be more easily digested or consumed.

According to an embodiment the ATF measuring system may also include a throttling service . The throttling service mimics the bandwidth or rate at which the browser page is delivered to the ATF measuring service . This is beneficial to mimic or simulate the bandwidth of the requestor and to provide a more accurate reflection of the ATF loading time for the browser page relative to a given requestor.

In some cases the throttling service may be installed on a proxy server that interfaces with the ATF measuring service system and the ATF measuring service . Additionally the throttling service may be configured dynamically to alter the delivery rate of the browser page. In this manner a browser page may have multiple ATF loading times one ATF loading time for each bandwidth rate. Thus a particular browser page may be deemed acceptable for ATF performance with a broadband network connection but unacceptable for ATF performance with a dialup network connection.

In yet another embodiment the ATF measuring system may include a requestor machine configuration service . The requestor machine configuration service simulates or mimics a desired memory or cache configuration of a requestor s device or environment and or mimics a desired processor configuration. This information can be established for the ATF measuring service before the viewing objects of the browser page are processed for ATF loading time. Similar to the throttling service the requestor machine configuration service helps provide a more realistic and useful ATF loading time measurement to a requestor that is more specific to the requestor s environment and devices. Such information supplied by the requestor machine configuration service may also be used to determine optimal configurations tier requestors such as minimum random access memory RAM processor speed etc. for a given browser page.

It is noted that if desired the ATF measurement service may also obtain measurements for the entire browser page and record start and ending times for each object loaded within the browser page in the log . The log can then be analyzed by the ATF measurement service or another service using the fold definition to obtain the ATF loading time and the entire browser page loading time since locations within the browser page may also be captured and stored within the log by the ATF measurement service . Thus the log can be analyzed to separate viewable objects ATF from objects that are viewable BTF after scrolling occurs within the browser by looking at the ending location for each listed object within the log .

For example consider the following example contents of a log for a given browser page and a defined fold occurring at 600 pixels 

In this example if can be seen that object AA occurs BTF since its end locations are beyond the 600 pixel line that defines the fold. Object y starts ATF but clearly ends BTF however the portion of y that was completely loaded ATF was obtainable by the ATF measurement service and identified as 0 11 seconds thus that portion of y that could be detected as being loaded ATF is included in the analysis. Both x and y objects start and end ATF. From these example entries within the log it can be seen that the total elapsed time for ATF loading is 13 seconds and total browser page loading is 20 seconds. One can also see through analysis that object z is a potential bottleneck in the ATF loading since it took 9 seconds to completely load ATF which is more than any other ATF object.

In the above example it was demonstrated that object y was included in the ATF analysis but that object AA was not. This is a configuration option to the ATF measurement system such that an option or policy may be enforced that if 50 or more of a given object is viewable ATF than it is included in the analysis of determining the ATF elapsed load time.

An example technique for calculating this situation is as follows. Consider that the fold is defined as being at pixel points X Y and that a particular image such as y in the above log example has a top left most pixel point of x1 y1 and a bottom right most pixel point of x2 y2 . The content download time for the ATF portion of y may be determined as start time end time start time 1 2 1 .

If different percentages of an object are acceptable as being ATF then the equation may be modified as necessary to reflect this desired percentage that is acceptable.

One now appreciates how ATF loading times may be established in a detailed manner that is more useful to browser page developers and entities that incorporate the use of browser pages. The detailed information in the log permits entities to more intelligently evaluate their perceived browser page performance and develop strategies to correct problems with browser pages. This can influence user perceptions and perhaps increase business for an entity.

The ATF measuring system includes an ATF measuring manager and a log . In an embodiment the ATF measuring system may also include a reporter and or a simulator . The ATF measuring system interacts with requestors who provide browser pages or references to browsers pages over a network for purposes of determining an ATF page loading times for the browser pages. Each of the elements of the ATF measuring system will now be discussed in turn.

Again a fold may be viewed as a virtual line in a browser window within a display that divides a browser page into two areas. The line runs horizontal across the page the visible area lies above the line and is referred to as ATF. The non visible area lies below the line and is referred to as BTF.

The ATF measuring manager is implemented as software instructions and performs services similar to the ATF measuring service of . According to an embodiment the ATF measuring manager may be implemented as a ATF measuring means having one or more software applications or services that cooperate with one another for purposes of determining an ATF loading time for a given browser page.

The ATF measuring manager resolves the ATF loading time for each visible object within the browser page that occurs in an ATF portion of that browser page. Each object occurring ATF is considered to be visible. Once the last viewable object loads an ATF page loading time is resolved for the browser page and stored within the log .

The log may be a data store such as a data base a data warehouse a directly an electronic file and or various combinations of the same. Additionally the log may be a data structure that is stored in memory such as a table. Examples of a log and sample contents for log entries were provided above with log of .

According to an embodiment the ATF measuring manager initially determines a fold s dimensions for a given or received browser page. Once again this can be received in a variety of manners such as being predefined being associated with an identity of the requestor that supplied the browser page being associated with an environment of the requestor and or being supplied as a runtime parameter or configuration of the ATF measuring manager . The fold s dimensions represent coordinates for pixels.

In an embodiment the ATF measuring manager includes or determines an elapsed loading time and pixel position location for each visible object within the log . This permits each visible object s loading performance to be determined and analyzed. Moreover the information may be retained by the ATF measuring manager storing the information along with the identities of the visible objects in the log .

In some cases a particular object within the browser page may lie on both sides of the fold. In such a situation if a configurable amount of the object lies ATF then that portion may be considered for purposes of determining the ATF page loading time. Examples of this and calculations to resolve this were provided above with the ATF measuring system of .

The ATF measuring manager may also be designed to interact with a simulator for purposes of altering a delivery speed with which the browser page is rendered to the browser. The simulator may also simulate a desired machine configuration associated with the requestor s device that will be loading the browser page. The simulator permits the ATF measuring manager to mimic the requestor s environment. In some cases the ATF measuring manager may be implemented as an ATF measuring means that includes the processing of the ATF measuring manager and the simulator .

In yet another embodiment the ATF measuring system may also include a reporter . The reporter may be implemented as a reporter means that is includes instructions organized as one or more services and applications that cooperate with one another to analyze the log and one or more additional logs associated with ATF page loading measurements for purposes of identifying trends or problem areas with the ATF page rendering.

Initially the ATF measuring service receives a browser page for processing. This may be received as a link such as an URL or as file reference. In some cases a batch of browser pages may be received and processed serially by the ATF measuring service.

Once the browser page is known at the ATF measuring service determines a location of a visible object within that browser page that is located ATF. At the dimensions of the fold are acquired the dimensions define the boundaries for the ATF. The dimensions of the fold may be acquired before the browser page is received while the browser page is being received or after the browser page is received. Various example techniques for acquiring the fold were presented above with the .

Additionally and in some embodiments at the ATF measuring service may also simulate a requestor s environment and or bandwidth before loading the visible objects of the browser page. This permits a more realistic measurement of the ATF page loading for the requestor. It may also permit different versions of a same browser page to be developed for different bandwidth rates and different environments of machine configurations by revealing different ATF loading times for varying bandwidths and environments for the same browser page. This may also entail using a same browser type and version as a requestor to perform the processing of determining the ATF page loading time.

At the ATF measuring service records the start and end times to load the visible object being processed within the browser. According to an embodiment at an identifier for the visible object a location for the visible object ATF the start time and the end time may be written to the log. An example of this was provided above with respect to . Moreover in some cases at the ATF measuring service may store the log in a data store or portions of the log as it is being written tier purposes of subsequent comparisons charting trending and or reporting with respect to specific visible objects or browser pages relative to one another.

At a check is made to determine if more visible objects are available for the ATF measuring service to process. If so then the processing reiterates starting at until each visible object has been processed.

Once each visible object has been processed at a total elapsed time for loading each visible object ATF into the browser is resolved. In some cases at an alert may be sent if the total elapsed time is greater than or equal to a threshold. Thus certain performance thresholds may be established for rendering a browser page ATF and if they are not established interested parties or automated services may be automatically alerted. For example an alert may be raised to an automated reporting service that generates a report. Alternatively an alert may be raised via an email notification or instant message to an administrator.

According to an embodiment at the total elapsed time may be derived from the log and the log may be sorted such that the first entry of the log represents the total elapsed time and the ATF page loading time.

At the ATF service receives a reference to a browser page. The reference is received from a requestor that desires to have an ATF page loading time resolved for a given browser page that is associated with the references. In an embodiment at the reference may be received as an URL link.

At the ATF service resolves the dimensions for the ATF portion of the browser page. Thus the boundary for the horizontal line that splits the browser page into a first portion which is immediately viewable and a second portion which is viewable after scrolling within the browser is determined or resolved. This virtual line and the pixel boundary that determines it is referred to as the fold.

According to an embodiment at the fold dimensions may be acquired as a predefined and configured value as a runtime parameter to the ATF service in response to an identity associated with the requestor in response to a table lookup associated with the requestor s devices or environment etc.

In still another embodiment at the ATF service may simulate a requestor s browser type and version the requestor s environment and or the requestor s bandwidth. This presents a more realistic calculation as to ATF page loading time.

At the ATF service identifies each visible object located ATF along with each visible object s location ATF. Furthermore the ATF service records the start and end times for loading the ATF portion of the visible object to the browser. In some cases any simulation that was performed at also is fed to the ATF service during the processing at .

In an embodiment at the ATF service may log metrics for each visible object to a log file data structure or data store. Some metrics may include but are not limited to an identity of the browser page being processed an identifier for the visible object being processed a start and ending location for where the visible object falls with respect to ATF and a start and end time for beginning to load the visible object and for when the visible object or at least a portion of the object is completely loaded. In some case the visible object may also include a portion that is located BTF. In such a case if a configurable amount of the object is in fact ATF then that portion can be included as a visible object for purposes of resolving the ATF page loading time. The metrics may be used to derive the ATF page loading time and to identify or analyze problems with specific visible objects with respect to their loading performance within the browser.

In yet another embodiment at the ATF service may raise alerts if select ones of the metrics exceed or are equal to a predefined threshold. These alerts may be raised to automated service such as reporting or analyzing services or the alerts may be raised to resources such as devices other services users etc.

In still more embodiments at the ATF service may generate reports in response to the metrics. The reports may identify trends may chart certain desired metrics and or may provide a history of certain objects and or browser pages based on versioning.

At the ATF service determines the total loading time for loading each visible object ATF. This is the ATF page loading time. In some cases this total loading time is derived from the log. In other cases this ATF page loading time is maintained in memory and report out as a result of the ATF service. If a log is used a variety of other features may be implemented such as the ones discussed and presented herein and above.

According to an embodiment at the KIT service may also be used to track objects that are visible below the fold BTF . Thus a total page loading time for visible objects ATF and BTF may be determined by the ATF service. Moreover the detailed metrics associated with loading each object ATF or BTF may be tracked in a log for future analysis.

In yet another embodiment at the ATF service may be iterated a number of additional times for the same browser page. Each processing cycle of the KIT service produces a consistent result for the total loading time. Thus unlike manual stopwatch techniques attempting to measure page loading time. The ATF service is an automated repeatable and reliable technique that can produce consistent results for a same browser page over multiple iterations and do so in an automated fashion.

In some embodiments the methods and may be implemented as instructions in a machine accessible and machine readable medium. The instructions when loaded to a machine and accessed perform the processing depicted in the methods and of the respectively. The instructions may be stored on a removable media and uploaded to the machine. Alternatively the instructions may be prefabricated within memory and or storage of the machine. Still further the instructions may be downloaded over a network from one machine or storage device to a second machine for processing.

An API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more databases servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the commerce system . The payment applications likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the commerce system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the commerce system .

Further while the system shown in employs client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the commerce system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based commerce system .

The ATF measurer provides the novel ATF page rendering measurement services described herein. The ATF measurer is coupled or interfaced with a variety of other applications in a commerce system . This permits merchants participating in the commerce system to more effectively and intelligently develop browser pages for their online stores which may also be part of the commerce system.

The commerce system may provide a number of listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the marketplace applications are shown to include one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with an auction format listing and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow sellers to group their listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation applications allow parties that transact utilizing the network based commerce system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based commerce system supports person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based commerce system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of the commerce system to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the commerce system . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the commerce system and other parties.

The network based commerce system may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the commerce system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the commerce system may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. These are represented as the internationalization applications in .

Navigation of the network based commerce system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application enables key word searches of listings published via the commerce system . A browse application allows users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the commerce system . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

In order to make listings available via the network based commerce system as visually informing and attractive as possible the marketplace applications may include one or more imaging applications utilizing which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example setters may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation applications allow sellers conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the commerce system and listing management applications allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto re listing inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occurs post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the commerce system .

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the network based commerce system such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings at the commerce system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users .

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to setters to enable sellers to increase sales via the commerce system . The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The network based commerce system itself or one or more parties that transact via the commerce system may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and may be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The example computer architecture includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The architecture may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The architecture also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the architecture the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

Thus a method and system to provide novel ATF page rendering measuring services have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate example embodiment.

