---

title: Peripheral device management
abstract: A method, system, apparatus, and computer program product are provided for providing peripheral device management. For example, a method is provided that includes receiving, from a user device, a request to access at least one peripheral device, the request comprising information regarding the user device. The method may further include determining, based at least in part on at least one compliance rule and the information regarding the user device, whether to grant the request, and, in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request, causing access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514078&OS=09514078&RS=09514078
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09514078
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 925 943 entitled PERIPHERAL DEVICE MANAGEMENT and filed Jun. 25 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to device management and more particularly to systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for facilitating peripheral device management.

Peripheral devices are electronic devices that are accessible to and or controllable by but are not an essential component of one or more host computing devices. Peripheral devices are frequently but not necessarily external to such host devices. Common examples of peripherals include printers scanners mice keyboards external hard drives sensors cameras speakers or the like.

The number and complexity of peripheral devices being used especially in enterprise environments is constantly increasing with many modern peripheral devices incorporating sophisticated processing capabilities to facilitate access maintenance diagnostics control or the like. For example complex devices such as vehicles home office automation systems or entire cloud computing systems may be considered peripheral devices. Current options for managing these complex collections of peripheral devices are limited.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Neither is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

According to one example embodiment a method is provided that includes receiving from a user device a request to access at least one peripheral device the request comprising information regarding the user device. The method further includes determining whether to grant the request based at least in part on at least one compliance rule and the information regarding the user device and in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request causing access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated.

According to another example embodiment an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory storing program code instructions. The at least one memory and program code instructions of the example embodiment are configured to with the at least one processor direct the apparatus to at least receive from a user device a request to access at least one peripheral device the request comprising information regarding the user device. The apparatus is further directed to determine based at least in part on at least one compliance rule and the information regarding the user device whether to grant the request and in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request cause access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated.

According to yet another example embodiment a computer program product is provided the computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having program code portions embodied therein. The program code portions of the example embodiment are configured to upon execution direct an apparatus to at least receive from a user device a request to access at least one peripheral device the request comprising information regarding the user device. The apparatus is further directed to determine based at least in part on at least one compliance rule and the information regarding the user device whether to grant the request and in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request cause access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated.

According to another example embodiment an apparatus is provided that includes means for receiving from a user device a request to access at least one peripheral device the request comprising information regarding the user device. The apparatus further includes means for determining based at least in part on at least one compliance rule and the information regarding the user device whether to grant the request and means for causing access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions subtractions and or

modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings as indicated in some cases via dashed lines and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Indeed the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

As used herein the terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted received processed and or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

Additionally as the term will be used herein circuitry may refer to hardware only circuit implementations e.g. implementations in analog circuitry and or digital circuitry combinations of circuits and computer program product s including software and or firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein and circuits such as for example one or more microprocessors or portions of a microprocessors that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of circuitry is applicable to all uses of this term including in any claims. As another example the term circuitry also includes implementations comprising one or more processors and or portion s thereof and accompanying software and or firmware. As another example the term circuitry also includes for example an integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a portable communication device or a similar integrated circuit in a server a network device and or other computing device.

As defined herein a computer readable storage medium refers to a nontransitory physical storage medium e.g. volatile or non volatile memory device and can be differentiated from a computer readable transmission medium which refers to an electromagnetic signal.

The present application is generally directed to device management and more particularly to systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for facilitating peripheral device management. Example embodiments of such peripheral device management systems methods apparatuses and computer program products may be configured to provide comprehensive peripheral device management capabilities. For example embodiments may be configured to control access to peripheral devices such as by user devices via the application of one or more e.g. at least one compliance rules. These compliance rules may for example restrict and or allow access based on any number of conditions such as a user device s location a user or user device s security credentials one or more temporal conditions or any number of other conditions.

Other example embodiments may additionally or alternatively facilitate access to peripheral devices by user devices such as by facilitating and or causing the installation of supporting software such as drivers on appropriate user devices. Some embodiments may for example facilitate and or cause such installations to occur in advance e.g. prior to the user device s requesting access to a peripheral device while others may for example facilitate and or cause such installations to occur on site e.g. following the user device s requesting access to a peripheral device.

Other example embodiments may additionally or alternatively be configured to facilitate various peripheral device lifecycle management functions. For example some embodiments may facilitate peripheral device maintenance and or support such as by causing maintenance support and or procurement requests to be generated. Such requests may for example be generated based at least in part on operational status information sensor data or the like which may be received for example directly from peripheral devices and or from user devices attempting to access such peripheral devices. Other example embodiments may additionally or alternatively provide various optimization functions. For example embodiments may collect information regarding peripheral device usage and generate one or more optimization schemes. Such optimization schemes may for example include optimizations related to the procurement placement and or disposal of peripheral devices.

The user device s may comprise any device configured to communicate over one or more networks such as the network depicted in . For example the user device s may comprise a mobile telephone smartphone tablet computer PDA pager desktop or laptop computer a set top box a music player a game console or any of numerous other fixed or portable communication devices computation devices content generation devices content consumption devices or combinations thereof.

The peripheral device s may comprise any electronic devices that are accessible to and or controllable by but are not an essential component of at least one host electronic device s such as the user device s . For example the peripheral device s may comprise a printer scanner mouse keyboard external hard drive sensor camera speaker system vehicle home office automation system cloud computing system security system payment processing point of sale system or any number of other electronic devices or combinations thereof.

The resource server may for example comprise any type of network accessible electronic device or system that includes storage such as the depicted resource store . The resource server may according to one example embodiment comprise a public server that may be accessible to anyone who connects to it over a network such as the network . According to another example embodiment the resource server may require user registration and or may require use of an authorized user device to access it. The resource server may store any type of data such as various types of content drivers for the one or more peripheral devices applications and or any other data.

The compliance server may be any type of network accessible electronic device or system that includes storage such as the depicted compliance rule store and may be configured to communicate with the user device s and or the peripheral device s over one or more networks such as the network depicted in to provide device management capabilities. For example the compliance server may comprise cloud based solutions server computers and or any other system providing device management capability. For purposes of convenience the compliance server is referred to herein in the singular although it is understood that a plurality of servers may be employed in the arrangements as descried herein. Furthermore in some embodiments multiple compliance servers may operate on the same server computer. The components executed on the compliance server for example may comprise various applications services processes systems engines or functionality not disclosed in detail herein.

The compliance server may comprise a management application and a compliance rule store storing one or more compliance rules e.g. compliance policies that may be applicable to the user device s and or the peripheral device s . While the management application is shown as within the compliance server the management application may additionally or alternately be within the user device s the peripheral device s and or remotely located on the resource server and may be remotely updated such as periodically via compliance server according to any number of suitable over the air OTA updating methods.

Attempts by the user device s to perform certain functionality such as accessing a peripheral device directly or via the network may require the user device to be in compliance with one or more of the compliance rules. Depending on the sensitivity of a given functionality different compliance rules may be necessary to ensure that the functionality is adequately restricted. Some functionality may only require ensuring that the proper user is requesting the functionality. Other resources may require compliance with more stringent authorization rules such as determining whether the functionality is restricted during certain time windows or geographic areas. Accordingly the user device s and or the compliance server may be operative to determine whether the user of user device is authorized to perform requested functionality at the time the user requests to perform such functionality.

Compliance server may for example use the compliance rules to impose hardware restrictions regarding the use of specific devices and or specific device features such as for instance cameras Bluetooth IRDA tethering external storage a mobile access point and or other hardware restrictions. The compliance rules may additionally or alternatively impose software restrictions such as the use of specific wireless device operating systems or applications internet browser restrictions screen capture functionality and or other software restrictions. Mobile device management restrictions may additionally or alternatively be included in the compliance rules and may comprise encryption requirements firmware versions remote lock and wipe functionalities logging and reporting features GPS tracking and or other mobile device management features.

The compliance server may determine whether the device characteristics of a requesting device e.g. the user device s satisfy one or more of the restrictions enumerated in the compliance rules. For example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that has a camera Bluetooth capability and is executing a specified version of an operating system is compliant with the compliance rules. As another example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that is associated with an external storage unit and has screen capture functionality enabled is not compliant with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments an agent application executed on the user device s may make the compliance determination based on a device profile e.g. the device profile depicted in credentials and or user preferences. For instance the agent application may monitor calls by applications such as the web browser email client secure application and or any other application on the user device s to an operating system e.g. the operating system depicted in of the user device s to determine whether user device s seeks to perform functionality associated with one and or more of the compliance rules described above such as accessing the one or more peripheral device s . Additionally the agent application executed on the user device s may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the agent application may instruct the operating system on user device s to disable the camera of user device in response to a determination that a compliance rule e.g. one or more of the compliance rules stored in the data store depicted in specifies that the camera cannot be used at the time of the request by the user device to operate the camera.

In some embodiments the agent application executed on the user device s may rely on the compliance server to determine whether a given functionality request on the user device s such as a request to access the peripheral device s is permitted according to the compliance rules. For instance the agent application may transmit a functionality request a device profile credentials and or user data to the compliance server so that compliance server may determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality that may violate a given compliance rule. Additionally the compliance server may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the compliance server may instruct the agent application on the user device s to instruct the operating system on the user device s to activate a VPN security profile prior to opening a document and or link.

In some embodiments the compliance rules may comprise device settings and or executable instructions that define which functionality the operating system of the user device s is authorized to perform. Furthermore the compliance rules may comprise a list of functions such as those provided by AP is associated with the operating system and or a platform library such as the platform library depicted in that may be treated as protected functions. Calls to these functions such as calls to retrieve login credentials may result in checks by the user device e.g. via the agent application and or the compliance server e.g. via the management application for compliance with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments the agent application may perform a set of ordered operations to accomplish a requested function. These operation sets may be defined on e.g. stored in a memory of the user device s and or the compliance server and may comprise one or more operations to determine whether the user device is in compliance with compliance rules from the compliance rule store . The agent application may control at least one respective computing resource of the user device s . The operations may include configuring at least one respective computing resource of the user device s such as restricting access to at least one resource managed by the agent application .

As shown in the user device s peripheral device s compliance server and or resource server may communicate with one another directly and or using the network . The user device s peripheral device s compliance server and or resource server may connect to the network using wired or wireless means such as using one or more intermediate networks. For example the user device s peripheral device s compliance server and or resource server may connect with the network using wired means such as Ethernet USB Universal Serial Bus or the like or using wireless means such as for example WI FI BLUETOOTH or the like or by connecting with a wireless cellular network such as a Long Term Evolution LT E network an L TE Advanced L TE A network a Global Systems for Mobile communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access COMA network e.g. a Wideband COMA WCDMA network a CDMA2000 network or the like a General Packet Radio Service GPRS work or other type of network.

Accordingly the Network may comprise for example one or more wired and or wireless networks such as one or more wireless local area networks WLAN wireless wide area networks WWAN Ethernet networks fiber optic networks and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the Network may comprise the Internet and or one or more intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications networks cellular networks infrared communication networks global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

Turning now to a diagram of an example user device is depicted. While illustrates one example configuration of such a user device numerous other configurations may be used according to example embodiments of the present invention. With reference to however the user device may comprise a processor e.g. at least one processor co processor and or processing circuitry and at least one memory . Depending on the configuration and type of device the memory may comprise but is not limited to volatile e.g. random access memory RAM non volatile e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory or any combination. The memory may store executable programs e.g. program code instructions and related data components of various applications and modules for execution by the processor . The at least one memory may be communicatively connected to the at least one processor e.g. via one or more system busses for transferring data therebetween.

Basic functionality of the user device may be provided by an operating system contained in the at least one memory and executed via the at least one processor . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . For example applications stored in the memory may be executed by the processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and or generated as output from the application s may be stored in the memory and read by the processor from the memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in the memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or provided during installation of the application.

The user device may include one or more communication ports such as the three communication ports A C depicted in . Such communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SOIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewGard Card bus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input interface such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. The input interface may additionally or alternatively comprise one or more sensing devices such as one or more cameras microphones motion detectors proximity sensors or the like which may be configured to capture visual aural physical and or other types of stimuli such as spoken words motions and or gestures or the like.

Data generated by applications may be caused to be stored in the memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of an output interface . The output interface may comprise one or more devices configured to provide information and or stimuli to a user such as one or more display devices speakers force vibration and or haptic feedback generating devices implanted and or physiologically integrated output devices and or the like. It will be understood that although the input and output interfaces are depicted as distinct components in they may according to example embodiments be integrated into a single component comprising both input and output functionality. For example the input and output interface may comprise a touchscreen device e.g. a display device configured to both display information and receive user input such as via a touch detection interface.

The at least one memory may also comprise a platform library . The platform library may comprise one or more collections of functionality e.g. utilities useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

The user device may store in the memory e.g. in a data store a device profile and user data . The device profile may for example comprise information such as an indication of the current position of user device and or indications of various hardware software and or security attributes pertaining to the user device . For instance the device profile may represent hardware specifications of the user device version and or configuration information of various software program and or hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may additionally or alternatively comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of the user device a date of last access of the user device by an IT representative a date of last service of the user device by an IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and or usage of the user device . The device profile may additionally or alternatively comprise indications of past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and or inventory accessed from such resources.

The user data may comprise information regarding one or more users of the user device . For example the user data may comprise one or more user preferences e.g. one or more parameters that may affect the experience of the user. Additionally or alternatively the user data may include indications a device user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources and or any other type of information relating to a user or combinations of such information.

The user device may also store at least one resource in the data store . The resources may for example include any data such as databases applications text files word processor files spreadsheet files presentation files graphic files audio files photographic files video files applications and or application files and or the like. More specifically resources may include at least one of the following file types data files audio files video files three dimensional image files raster image files vector image files page layout files spreadsheet files database files executable files CAD files web files plug in files font files system files settings files encoded files compressed files disk image files developer files backup files and or any other files.

Example embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to in which certain elements of an apparatus for implementing various functionality of the present invention are depicted. In order to implement such functionality the apparatus of may be employed for example in conjunction with one or more of the user device s peripheral device s compliance server and or resource server depicted in . However it should be noted that the apparatus of may also be employed in connection with a variety of other devices both mobile and fixed in order to implement the various functionality of the present invention and therefore embodiments of the present invention should not be limited to those depicted. It should also be noted that while illustrates one example of a configuration of an apparatus for implementing the functionality of the present invention numerous other configurations may also be used to implement embodiments of the present invention. Accordingly it will be understood that various devices components and or elements depicted and or described as being in communication with each other may for example be embodied within a single device or distributed across multiple devices.

Referring now to the apparatus for implementing the various functionality of the present invention may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor a communication interface and a memory device . As described below and as indicated by the dashed lines in the apparatus may also include a user interface such as when the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device or the peripheral device . In some embodiments the processor and or co processors or other processing circuitry assisting or otherwise associated with the processor may be in communication with the memory device via a bus configured to pass information among components of the apparatus . The memory device may for example include one or more volatile and or non volatile memories. The memory device may be configured to store information data content applications instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention. For example the memory device may be configured to store instructions such as program code instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to carry out various operations.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as one or more of a variety of hardware processing means such as a coprocessor a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP a processing element with or without an accompanying DSP or various other processing circuitry including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array a microcontroller unit MCU a hardware accelerator a special purpose computer chip or the like. As such in some embodiments the processor may include one or more processing cores configured to perform independently. A multi core processor may enable multiprocessing within a single physical package. Additionally or alternatively the processor may include one or more processors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and or multithreading.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device or otherwise accessible to the processor . Alternatively or additionally the processor may be configured to execute hard coded functionality. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the algorithms and or operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However in some cases the processor may be a processor of a specific device e.g. the user device peripheral device compliance server and or resource server configured to employ an embodiment of the present invention by further configuration of the processor by instructions for performing the algorithms and or operations described herein. The processor may include among other things a clock an arithmetic logic unit ALU and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .

Meanwhile the communication interface may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network such as the network and or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard the communication interface may include for example an antenna or multiple antennas and supporting hardware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network. Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include the circuitry for interacting with the antenna s to cause transmission of signals via the antenna s or to handle receipt of signals received via the antenna s . In some environments the communication interface may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such for example the communication interface may include a communication modem and or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB or other mechanisms.

In some embodiments such as instances in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device or the peripheral device the apparatus may include a user interface in communication with the processor to receive indications of user input and or to cause audible visual mechanical or other output to be provided to the user. As such the user interface may for example include a keyboard a mouse a joystick a display a touch screen touch areas soft keys a microphone a speaker or other input output mechanisms. The processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more user interface elements through computer program instructions e.g. software and or firmware stored on a memory accessible to the processor e.g. memory device . In other embodiments however such as in instances in which the apparatus is embodied by the compliance and or resource server the apparatus may not include a user interface .

It will be further understood that in embodiments in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device the memory device may for example be embodied by the memory depicted in the processor may for example be embodied by the processor depicted in the user interface may for example be embodied by the input and or output interfaces depicted in and the communication interface may for example be embodied by one or more of the communications ports A C depicted in .

Referring now to various operations of an example embodiment of the present invention are depicted. As discussed below the operations of may be performed by one or more apparatuses such as the apparatus depicted in embodied by or otherwise associated with one or more of the user device s peripheral device s compliance server and or resource server depicted in .

In this regard and turning first to the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the peripheral device and or the compliance server may include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving at least one request to access at least one peripheral device . See operation . Such at least one request may for example be received from one or more of the user devices . According to another example embodiment the request may additionally or alternatively be received from the at least one peripheral device . That is the peripheral device may for example receive a request from the user device and may in response route this request or transmit a new corresponding request to the compliance server .

Regardless of its origin and or destination the request may according to an example embodiment include information regarding the device requesting to access the at least on peripheral device e.g. information regarding the one or more user device from which the request was received. For example the information may comprise at least a portion of the device profile and or the user data discussed above in the context of the user device depicted in . According to another example embodiment the information may additionally or alternatively include authentication information such as user and or device credentials a security key access credentials username password and or the like.

According to another example embodiment the request to access the at least one peripheral device by the user device may additionally or alternatively include information regarding one or more services to be provided by the at least one peripheral device . For example a request to access a printer may include information about a print job such as whether the print job is in color and or how many pages it includes. A request to access a vehicle may include information regarding load weight and or a distance to be traveled. According to yet another example embodiment the request to access the at least one peripheral device by the user device may comprise a generalized request. That is the request may for example not request any particular peripheral device but instead comprise a general request such as a request for a particular type of peripheral device e.g. printer vehicle etc. . The determination of whether to grant such a generalized request may therefore comprise as will be discussed in greater detail below a determination of what peripheral device is to serve the request if it is granted.

According to an example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or the at least one peripheral device may further comprise means such as those discussed above for receiving information regarding the at least one peripheral device. See operation . The information regarding the at least one peripheral device may for example comprise status information. Such status information may for example comprise information regarding one or more statuses of the at least one peripheral device such as whether the at least one peripheral device is currently being accessed e.g. used an access request queue length information regarding one or more resources of the at least one peripheral device information regarding errors or failures of the at least one peripheral device or the like.

In the interest of providing further clarity on the foregoing examples of operational status information may include information such as a gas level mileage tire pressure error notifications or the like for a vehicle peripheral device ink or toner levels for a printer peripheral device or available storage space for a cloud storage system peripheral device. Other examples of operational status information regarding these and other types of peripheral devices may come to the minds of those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is not limited in any way by the examples provided above.

According to an example embodiment the information regarding the at least one peripheral device may additionally or alternatively comprise usage information such as information regarding current and or past usage one or more frequencies of usage information regarding one or more origins of access requests or the like. According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the peripheral device and or the compliance server may additionally or alternatively comprise means such as those discussed above for determining and or generating such usage information based on received information regarding the at least one peripheral device such as based on status information or the like.

According to another example embodiment the information regarding the at least one peripheral device may additionally or alternatively comprise information gathered via at least one sensing device communicatively associated with the at least one peripheral device. The information may for example comprise information gathered via one or more cameras microphones motion sensors or the like. For example in an instance in which the at least one peripheral device comprises a vehicle the information might comprise video received via a dashboard camera accelerometer breathalyzer or any number of other sensing devices that may be associated with the vehicle.

According to a further embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or peripheral device may include means such as those discussed above for determining at least one peripheral device optimization scheme based at least in part on the information regarding the at least one peripheral device e.g. such as the usage information. The at least one optimization scheme may for example comprise one or more optimization suggestions such as one or more procurement suggestion e.g. one or more suggestions to purchase and or add one or more additional peripheral devices such as one or more peripheral devices of a specific type or that are configured to provide one or more particular services one or more location suggestions e.g. one or more suggestions regarding where to locate one or more peripheral devices and or one or more disposal suggestions e.g. one or more suggestions to remove and or dispose of one or more peripheral devices such as peripheral devices determined to be unnecessary or redundant based on the usage information.

The apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the peripheral device and or the compliance server may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for determining whether to grant the request to access the at least one peripheral device. See operation . The apparatus may for example make this determination based at least in part on the information regarding the user device requesting the access and at least one compliance rule. Thus for example a compliance rule may provided that only members of one or more particular policy groups are permitted to access one or more particular peripheral devices. The request to access at least one of the particular peripheral devices may thus comprise information regarding the requesting user device such as a device or user such that a policy group for the user device may be determined and based on this policy group and the compliance rule defining allowed policy groups a determination may be made as to whether the requested access to the at least one particular peripheral device by the requesting user device should be granted.

According to another example embodiment the at least one compliance rule may comprise at least one geographic condition. That is the at least one compliance rule may for example provide that access to one or more particular peripheral devices is limited to user devices whose current locations are within a given geographic area or within a given proximity to the particular peripheral devices . According to another example embodiment the at least one compliance rule may for example comprise at least one temporal condition such that for example the at least one compliance rule provides that access to one or more particular peripheral devices is limited to one or more particular periods of time or that such access once initially granted is limited to a particular duration.

Further examples of compliance rules may include rules directed to user device hardware and or software configurations so as to for example ensure only user devices that are compatible with a particular peripheral device are granted access thereto. Compliance rules may additionally or alternatively comprise rules directed to limiting access to peripheral devices by user devices that are not in compliance with various security configuration and or usage policies. As but one example the at least one compliance rule may provide that compromised e.g. jailbroken or rooted devices are denied access to one or more peripheral devices. An unlimited number of other configuration rules may additionally or alternatively be provided according to other example embodiments the scope of the present invention not being limited by the examples being explicitly provided herein.

The determination of whether to grant the request may additionally or alternatively be based at least in part on the information regarding the at least one peripheral device that may be received as discussed above. For example the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or the at least one peripheral device may include means such as those discussed above for determining based at least in part on received status or usage information whether the at least one peripheral device would be capable of serving the at least one user device . As discussed above the request to access the at least one peripheral device by the user device may include information regarding a nature of one or more desired services. Accordingly the determination of whether the at least one peripheral device would be capable of serving the at least one user device may be further based on this information. For example a request to access a printer for the purpose of serving a 150 page printing request may be denied if for example the operational status information regarding the printer indicates there is only enough ink for 50 pages. Similarly a request to access a vehicle for the purpose of making a delivery 1000 miles away may be denied if for example the operational status information regarding the vehicle indicates an oil change or another type of service is due in 25 miles.

As discussed above the request to access the at least one peripheral device may according to some example embodiments comprise a generalized request. For example such a generalized request may comprise a request to access a particular class or type of peripheral device as opposed to one or more particular peripheral devices. Accordingly determining whether to grant the request may according to an example embodiment additionally or alternatively comprise determining based at least in part on the generalized request one or more particular peripheral devices for handling the generalized request. Such a determination may for example be based at least in part on any of the received information regarding the requesting user device as discussed above such as a location of the user device . For example a peripheral device may be determined based at least in part on how close in proximity it is to the requesting user device . The determination may additionally or alternatively for example be based at least in part on the at least one compliance rule. That is a particular peripheral device may be determined based at least in part on whether access to the particular peripheral device by the user device would be allowed according to the at least one compliance rule.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the peripheral device and or the compliance server may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for causing access to the at least one peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated in an instance in which it is determined to grant the request to access the at least one peripheral device. See operation . Causing access to the at least one peripheral device may for example comprise causing software such as one or more device drivers or the like corresponding to the at least one peripheral device to be installed on the user device . According to another example embodiment causing access to the at least one peripheral device may for example comprise causing the at least one peripheral device to permit access by the user device or causing a connection to be established between the at least one peripheral device and the user device . Causing access to the at least one peripheral device may in some embodiments be facilitated by processing logging and or negotiating access charge payments associated with the at least one peripheral device . Causing access to the at least one peripheral device may in some embodiments be facilitated by relaying functional commands between the at least one peripheral device and the user device such as through the compliance server .

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the peripheral device and or the compliance server may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for causing access to at least one alternative peripheral device by the user device to be facilitated in an instance in which it is determined not to grant the request to access the at least one peripheral device. See operation . For example the apparatus may cause access to at least one alternative peripheral device to be facilitated in an instance in which it is determined that a compliance rule prevents the user device from accessing the requested peripheral device . According to another example the apparatus may cause access to at least on alternative peripheral device to be facilitated in an instance in which it is determined e.g. based at least in part on operational status information not to grant the request. For example such alternate access may be facilitated in an instance in which the operational status information indicates that the at least one peripheral device to which the user device requested access is malfunctioning low on resources in use being serviced etc.

Having thus described various functionality that may be provided in association with a compliance server and or at least one peripheral device attention will be turned to to discuss corresponding functionality that may be provided in association with a user device . In this regard an apparatus such as the apparatus depicted in may be embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device and may comprise means for carrying out the operations depicted in .

For instance the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for receiving an indication of at least one service e.g. at least one service that may be provided by one or more peripheral devices such as the at least one peripheral device depicted in . See operation . Receiving the indication may for example comprise receiving selection of one or more services such as by a user. For example a user may select such as via a user interface of the user device an option to print a document backup a file access a vehicle or security door or the like. As another example receiving the indication of at least one service may comprise receiving an indication from a peripheral device configured to provide the at least one service. For example the apparatus may receive a signal indicating one or more available services from one or more peripheral device upon moving in proximity to e.g. in communication range of the one or more peripheral devices .

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for determining at least one suitable peripheral device e.g. at least one peripheral device configured to provide the at least one service. See operation . The determination may for example be made based at least in part on at least one indicated service. For example the apparatus may consult a file database or the like including one or more associations e.g. mappings between one or more services and one or more suitable peripheral devices. According to another example embodiment the at least one peripheral device may be selected e.g. by a user via the user interface . The determination of the at least one suitable peripheral device may additionally or alternatively be based at least in part on information regarding the desired service. The information regarding the desired service may for example comprise more factors and or parameters relating to the desired service such as one or more user preferences regarding the service one or more requirements for optimal provision of the service or the like.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as those discussed above for causing the above described request to access at least one peripheral device to be generated and or transmitted. See operation . The features and or contents of the request may be in accordance with the description provided above. The apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may cause the request to be generated and or transmitted automatically such as in response to receiving an indication that the user device is in proximity to the at least one peripheral device to which the request pertains. For example a user may approach at least one peripheral device for which physical proximity thereto may have a tendency to indicate a desire or need to access the at least one peripheral device and the user s user device may automatically generate an appropriate corresponding request to access the peripheral device. Non limiting examples of peripheral devices for which this behavior may be beneficial that is peripheral devices for which physical proximity may be indicative of a desire or need for access thereto may include vehicles security systems home and or office automation systems scanners fax machines copiers or the like or any other such peripheral devices where accessing a provided service of the peripheral device may either require or be facilitated by user proximity and or direct user interaction.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may cause the request to be generated and or transmitted in response to receiving user input such as user input indicating a service e.g. a need or desire for a service provided by the at least one peripheral device as discussed above. As discussed above the apparatus may for example include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for determining based at least in part on the indicated service a peripheral device configured to provide the service and to generate and or transmit a request for access to the determined peripheral device. Thus a user may for example indicate a need for a service such as by indicating via the user interface a need to print a document or the like and the apparatus may thereby determine at least one suitable peripheral configured to provide the needed service e.g. a printer in this example and automatically generate and or transmit a request for access to the at least one suitable peripheral device.

The determination of the at least one suitable peripheral device may additionally or alternatively be based at least in part on information regarding the at least one peripheral device. The information regarding the at least one peripheral device may for example comprise a proximity to the at least one peripheral device operational status information regarding the at least one peripheral device as will be discussed further below at least one capability of the at least one peripheral device such as continuing with the printer example whether the printer prints in black and white and or color authorization information e.g. which if any of the one or more peripheral devices the user is authorized or is likely to be authorized to access and or usage information such as whether the at least one peripheral device is currently being accessed e.g. used or a number of queued requests to access the peripheral device.

According to an example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as those discussed above for accessing at least one peripheral device . See operations and . As discussed above the at least one peripheral device accessed by the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may be the requested peripheral device a peripheral device determined by the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server or one or more peripheral devices based on a generalized request or an alternative peripheral device such as in an instance in which a request is denied.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as those discussed above for causing information regarding the at least one peripheral device to be transmitted. See operations . The apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may for example gather various information regarding the at least one peripheral device such as any or all of the information discussed above and may cause this information to be transmitted such as to the compliance server . This information may for example be gathered following accessing the peripheral device or according to another example embodiment may be gathered in an instance in which the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device is in communication range of the at least one peripheral device. Thus for example user devices may gather information from various peripheral devices as their users carry them into proximity of the peripheral devices. In this way inspections of peripheral devices by support personnel may be supplemented or even rendered unnecessary as user devices may be used to automatically gather and transmit information regarding such peripherals .

As described above illustrate flowcharts of example apparatuses methods and computer program products according to example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowchart may be implemented by various means such as hardware firmware processor circuitry and or other devices associated with execution of software including one or more computer program instructions. For example one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. In this regard the computer program instructions which embody the procedures described above may be stored by a memory device of an apparatus employing an embodiment of the present invention and executed by a processor of the apparatus . As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus e.g. hardware to produce a machine such that the resulting computer or other programmable apparatus implements the functions specified in the flowchart blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture the execution of which implements the function specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide operations for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In some embodiments certain ones of the operations above may be modified or enhanced. Furthermore in some embodiments additional optional operations may be included. Modifications additions or enhancements to the operations above may be performed in any order and in any combination.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

