---

title: Automatically uploading user profile information
abstract: Techniques for automatically transmitting user profile data over a network are provided. In one technique, a browser displays a form and a QR code (or other form of encoded data) on a webpage. A mobile application scans the QR code, which causes the mobile application to identify user profile data (that may be stored locally with respect to the mobile application) and send the user profile data to a Campaign server. The Campaign server causes the form that is displayed by the browser to be filled in with the user profile data. The browser than transmits the filled-in form to a partner server that provides the webpage. In another technique, a mobile application scans a QR code, which may be displayed on a flyer, a poster, a computer screen, or a television screen. The mobile application identifies and transmits user profile data to a Campaign server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026602&OS=09026602&RS=09026602
owner: Quickmii Corporation
number: 09026602
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 841 188 filed Jun. 28 2013 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

The present disclosure relates to user profile information and more specifically to automatically transmitting user profile information using a unidirectional retrieval mechanism.

Filling in an online form on a website is a common activity that is typically long and laborious regardless of whether the website is displayed on a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a mobile phone. Forms are required for registering with certain activities reward programs online contests etc. Many forms require the same information such as first name last name mailing address email address and phone number. Thus a user might find him herself repeatedly entering the same information for each program activity or contest that requires a form to register. Because filling a form is a manual activity it is prone to errors.

Additionally many people do not register for contests reward programs etc. when they discover that they have to fill out a form. One of the main reasons for not filling out a form is that the form is too long. On an e commerce website such people represent significant unrealized revenue.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Techniques are provided for automatically transmitting user profile information using a traditionally retrieval only mechanism. The transmission of user profile information may result in automatically filling out a form or sending the profile information to a third party for registration. A traditional unidirectional retrieval mechanism URM such as a two dimensional barcode logo recognition near field communication NFC a radio frequency identification RFID mechanism and ultrasound decryption is leveraged to allow a user s profile information to be identified and transmitted without the user having to manually specify each item of profile information. In this way a traditional URM is used in a bi directional manner.

While embodiments are not limited to any particular type of URM for purposes of ease of explanation embodiments are described in the context of QR codes which is a type of two dimensional barcode. Thus one use case involves a QR code that is displayed at a store checkout line to entice shoppers to register with the store s rewards program. However instead of a QR code the store checkout line may use a NFC mechanism or RFID mechanism that includes a wireless transmitter than is configured to send a signal that is encoded with data that instructs a mobile application to identify and upload user profile information.

User profile information may include a first name a middle name a last name a mailing address an email address one or more phone numbers a birthday a job title a current geographical location and or a social network e.g. Facebook ID. Embodiments are not limited to any particular type of user profile information.

At block encoded data is presented. The encoded data may be a one dimensional or a two dimensional barcode. Alternatively the encoded data may be part of an image such as an image of a logo. Thus the encoded may be displayed on a printed medium such as a paper flyer or sticker. Alternatively the encoded data may be a displayed on a computer display such as through a webpage. The entity or party that displays the encoded data is different than the entity or party that decodes the encoded data.

Instead of being something that is displayed the encoded data may be in a signal that is generated by a signal transmitter using NFC or RFID technology.

At block the encoded data is decoded to generate decoded data. For example if the encoded data is displayed such as a logo or a QR code then the encoded data is scanned by a scanner to generate decoded data. The scanner may be a software application that executes on a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet computer. If the encoded data is part of a signal that is transmitted using NFC or RFID technology then the encoded data is decoded to generated decoded data.

At block based on the decoding user profile data is identified. The user profile data may be stored on the same device that includes the scanner or signal decoder. Alternatively the user profile data may be retrieved from a remote source over a network.

Block may involve identifying a strict subset of the available user profile data. For example while the available user profile data may include birthday information the birthday information may be not be identified and subsequently transmitted.

The encoded data may encode target data that indicates the types of user profile data that are requested or required. For example the target data may indicate that a user s last name first name and email address are required and that the user s current geographic location is requested.

At block the identified user profile data is transmitted over a network. Block may involve automatically filling out a form that is displayed on another device. All or a portion of the user profile data may be transmitted to a server over the network. The transmission of the filled out form may be triggered by user input that indicates that the filled out form should be submitted. For example a user may desire to change before transmission one or more automatically filled in fields and or one or more blank fields. Alternatively instead of filling out a form the user profile information may be transmitted without first filling out a form. In this alternative user input may or may not be required to transmit the user profile data over a network.

The user profile data is transmitted to a particular destination. The particular destination may be pre configured or hardcoded in an application that identifies the user profile data. Alternatively an identity e.g. URL of the particular destination may be encoded in the encoded data itself.

Browser is a component of a device that is separate from the mobile device upon which mobile application executes. Browser is configured to allow a user to retrieve and display web pages on a screen such as a CRT monitor an LCD display or a liquid plasma display. Browser may be part of a desktop computer a laptop computer or a TV.

Campaign server is configured to create and manage campaigns on behalf of one or more partners that request the campaigns. A campaign is time period in which a particular partner seeks to obtain user profile data from multiple end users usually as part of way to register people in a contest a rewards program etc. A campaign has a start date and may have an end date. Alternatively a campaign may be ongoing and thus may not have an end date at least initially.

In order to manage campaigns campaign server generates and transmits QR codes to browser and other browsers not depicted and to cause a form to be filled in with user profile data. Campaign server may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Also campaign server may be implemented on a single computing device or may be distributed across multiple computing devices.

Partner server is configured to reply to requests for content and to receive user profile data. For example partner server may comprise a web server that receives HTTP requests and provides HTTP responses. Partner server may be involved in any type of e commerce such as online shopping. Partner server may be owned or operated by a different party than the party that operates or own campaign server . For example one partner may be a manufacturer of baby bottles desiring to attract new consumers of its baby bottles while another partner may be a store chain desiring to attract store customers to sign up for a loyalty program while another partner may be an individual desiring to sell his her car.

Although only a single mobile application a single browser and a single partner server are depicted campaign server may support or interact with many mobile applications many browsers and many partner servers. Thus campaign server may store information about multiple mobile applications multiple mobile application users and multiple partners where each user and each partner is associated with one or more QR codes.

Prior to process a representative of the partner may have communicated with a representative or computer system of campaign server to establish a QR code campaign to entice users to submit their respective user profile data to partner server . Campaign server is responsible for maintaining the QR code campaigns on behalf of one or more partners.

At block browser sends to partner server a request that results in retrieving a form from partner server . The request may be a HTTP request for a web page and the web page includes the form. Browser may send the request in response to executing code e.g. JavaScript code in a web page provided by partner server and received prior to block . Also prior to sending the request browser reads the form to identify the needed or requested fields.

At block browser sends to campaign server a request for a QR code and one or more needed or requested fields. The request may include a campaign identifier that is included in the executable e.g. JavaScript code. The campaign identifier is associated with a particular campaign that is managed by campaign server . Campaign server uses the campaign identifier to generate a QR code that is associated with the particular campaign.

In a related embodiment instead of browser sending the needed or requested fields campaign server stores in association with a campaign identifier field data that identifies one or more requested or needed fields.

At block browser receives from campaign server a form a QR code a key and a code identifier and displays the form and QR code on a computer display. The code identifier may be encoded in the QR code and not separately identified by browser . The form and QR code may be displayed simultaneously. The code identifier uniquely identifies to campaign server the QR code relative to other QR codes that campaign server generates. The key uniquely identifies to campaign server browser relative to other browsers with which campaign server interacts.

Block may first involve campaign server receiving the campaign identifier generating a key that identifies browser generating or at least identifying a code identifier and generating a QR code that includes the code identifier and optionally the key. Additionally or alternatively the key is transmitted separately from the QR code but in the same transmission or response from campaign server .

The example display content of also includes QR code . QR code encodes the fields that are required or requested by the party that operates or owns partner server . QR code also encodes the code identifier. The code identifier is used for campaign server to associate user profile data with the appropriate QR code which is associated with a particular campaign.

In an embodiment each display of a QR code that is sent from campaign server is unique. Thus if browser displays a second QR code in the context of a webpage provided by partner server or another partner server not depicted then the second QR code is different than the first QR code. QR codes in this filling form scenario are unique because a key code identifier pair which is encoded in each QR code is unique. The key is the way in which campaign server identifies the browser and the code identifier is the way campaign server identifies the QR code.

In order to transmit the data between campaign server and browser a e.g. HTTPS communication channel is established and kept open so that the form may be eventually filled in by campaign server as described below in block . After block browser may periodically send e.g. every five seconds to campaign server a request for user profile data where the request includes the key. Campaign server may or may not eventually send to browser user profile data. In the following example campaign server does send browser user profile data.

At block mobile application scans the QR code that is displayed. In an embodiment the QR code is designed so that a generic scanning application or scanner can decode at least a portion of the data encoded in the QR code. However the scanner will not be able to communicate with campaign server . Nevertheless the QR code may begin with a URL such as http www.quickmii.com url ENCRYPTEDDATA followed by encrypted data that the generic scanning application is unable to decrypt. Upon reading the URL the scanner will redirect the user to page from where mobile application can be downloaded. If the user chooses mobile application is downloaded to the user s mobile device after which mobile application is activated to perform the scan of the QR code again. Thus a scanner believes that the QR code encodes just a URL and redirects the user to that URL. Therefore the process of using mobile application the first time is almost transparent for a generic scanner only user. This is possible because not all of the data in the QR code may be encrypted.

At block mobile application identifies based on the scan multiple data items that are encoded in the QR code such as the needed requested fields the key and the code identifier.

Block may also include displaying on the mobile device that executes mobile application the requested fields and optionally the user profile data associated with the requested fields. depicts an example display of user profile data pertaining to the requested fields. If the screen size of the user s mobile device is not large enough to display all the requested fields then the user may need to scroll down to view the other requested fields. Alternatively to displaying the requested fields and or the requested user profile data process may proceed to block or once the data items encoded in the QR code are identified based on the scan.

In an embodiment the QR code also includes certification data that indicates whether the partner associated with the form is a certified partner. Campaign server may perform one or more checks to determine whether to certify a partner. If a partner is certified then that signifies a level of trust given to the partner. The user of mobile application may be more willing to share his her profile data especially more personal information such as birthday mailing address and current geographic location with a certified partner as opposed to an non certified partner.

At block mobile application performs a privacy check to determine whether one or more requested or required fields indicated in the QR code conflict with a policy associated with a user s profile data. For example the policy may indicate that birthday information should not be shared. The privacy check involves determining that this policy exists and that one of the requested or required fields is a birthday field. The user may be allowed to manually override this policy and provide input that indicates that the birthday information or a portion thereof such as birth year only may be shared. Block may be optional especially if the user profile data is not associated with any policy that indicates that certain profile data is not to be shared without explicit user approval.

At block mobile application sends to campaign server user profile information or a portion thereof and the code identifier extracted from the QR code.

Block involves campaign server receiving the code identifier and the user profile information identifying the key that is associated with the code identifier and identifying the appropriate browser in which to send the received user profile information. Thus campaign server may store mapping data that associates code identifiers with keys. Thus campaign server uses the code identifier received from mobile application to look up the appropriate key in the mapping data.

At block campaign server causes the form to be filled in based on the received user profile information. Embodiments are not limited to how the form displayed by browser is filled in. For some browsers JSONP JavaScript Object Notation with Padding may be used. For other browsers CORPS Cross Origin Request Policy may be used.

Embodiments are not limited to any particular communication protocol that is used to send data between different components depicted in such as between mobile application and campaign server and between browser and campaign server . One example communication protocol is HTTPS or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure which is a communications protocol for secure communication over a computer network with especially wide deployment on the Internet. HTTPS is the result of layering HTTP on top of the SSL TLS protocol thus adding the security capabilities of SSL TLS to standard HTTP communications.

In an embodiment the encoded data within a QR code is cryptographically compressed prior to transmission from campaign server to browser . This means that mobile application implements a decryption technique in order to read and identify the content of the QR code such as the code identifier the requested required fields and optionally the key.

Partner is a computing device operated by a user that represents a partner or client of Campaign server . Partner may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or other mobile device. Partner interacts with campaign server to retrieve a QR code for a QR code campaign that partner desires to initiate.

Partner server may be implemented as a server that accepts data from campaign server or as a client that requests data from campaign server . Partner server may be implemented on a single computing device or multiple computing devices.

At block partner transmits to campaign server a request to retrieve a QR code. The request may specify which user profile data is required and or requested. For example the request may indicate that first name last name gender email address and birth year are required and that job title and current geographical location are only requested.

Block may be preceded by partner visiting a web page provided by campaign server and a user of partner providing input into the web page about user profile data items that are required or requested in order to establish a QR code campaign that campaign server will support on behalf of the partner.

At block campaign server in response to the request transmits to partner a QR code that encodes information about the requested required fields and a code identifier that uniquely identifies to campaign server the QR code relative to other QR codes. The QR code may be a limited use QR code. For example only 95 scans of the QR code or successful transmissions of user profile data are allowed before the associated QR campaign terminates. For example a QR code campaign may be to register people in a rewards program where the first one hundred people who register in the rewards program using the QR code are given 1 000 reward points that may be redeemed for one or more prizes such as a paid trip electronics or cash. Campaign server stores scan limit data in association with one or more QR codes that indicates for each of the one or more QR codes a number of registrations a time period or other termination criteria that indicates when scans of the QR code or registrations using the QR code are no longer allowed. Campaign server may also store scan limit data or QR code campaign termination criteria that indicates when QR codes of a QR code campaign will no longer be created or when receipts of user profile data using the QR codes will no longer be accepted. 

At block partner or one or more separate computing devices causes the QR code to be printed or displayed on encoded data medium . For example the QR code may be printed on a flyer or a poster. As another example the QR code may be inserted in digital displays of a web pages or advertisements.

At block mobile application identifies the requested fields and code identifier encoded in the scanned QR code.

At block mobile application identifies user profile data based on the requested fields and transmits the user profile data and the code identifier to campaign server . Campaign server uses the code identifier to associate the user profile data received from mobile application with the QR code which is associated with partner server or other data that identifies the partner or client that initiated the QR code campaign associated with the QR code.

At block campaign server sends to partner server the user profile data received from mobile application . Campaign server may send the user profile data immediately upon receipt of the user profile data and determination that the user profile data is associated with partner server . In this scenario partner server implements a web service in order to collect user profile data from campaign server . In a related scenario campaign server stores user profile data of one or more users and sends the user profile data for example every ten minutes or every five user submissions. In an alternative scenario campaign server stores the user profile data in association with the QR code or the partner and waits for partner server or client device to send a request for the user profile data. When partner server requests user profile data campaign server may send user profile data of multiple users.

In an embodiment a mobile application e.g. mobile application stores scan history data that indicates information about one or more scans that were performed previously by the mobile application. The scan history data may include for each QR code scan the partner e.g. individual or company that initiated the QR code campaign a name associated with the QR code campaign which name may be encoded in the QR code the fields or user profile data item types that were required or requested the date and or time on which the QR code scan occurred a geographic location where the scan occurred e.g. a city a zip code or geographic coordinates and a password that a user of the mobile application may need to provide along with his her profile data when for example registering for a rewards program a contest or a discount. Some partners may require a password during registration in which case the mobile application determines that requirement and automatically generates a password. Thus the mobile application may store the generated password in association with the campaign so that the user can later locate the password. Alternatively the mobile application may prompt the user to provide the password after which the mobile application stores the user provided password in association with the campaign.

The mobile application may provide a user interface to allow a user to view a list of previous scans which may be ordered based on date select any of the previous scans and view the details of any previous scan. Thus a user is allowed to know what where when and to which organization partner the user allowed his her profile to be sent.

In an embodiment a partner or client of the provider of QR codes is able to customize one or more QR codes for a QR code campaign. Through a user interface a partner may add a logo to the QR code change the color and sign of the QR code add text etc. depicts an example customized QR code which includes QR code and background design . In the first scenario where each QR code of a single QR code campaign may be different each QR code may include the same customized features even though the actual QR code is different.

A mobile application e.g. mobile application that is configured to communicate with a provider of QR codes e.g. campaign server may provide a user interface that allows a user to manually specify user profile data for each of multiple types of user profile data. The manually inputted user profile data or a portion thereof will be transmitted to a Campaign server.

Additionally or alternatively user profile data or a portion thereof is imported into the mobile application. In this way entry of user profile data is simplified for users. For example user profile data stored by one or more social networks may be imported to the computing device upon which mobile application executes. Example social networks include Facebook LinkedIn Google Twitter and Viadeo. User profile information may be imported from one or more social networks using REST Representational state transfer SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol and or Open Graph.

In an embodiment a mobile application identifies conflicts between corresponding user profile data items. If multiple social networks are used to import user profile data then one or more conflicts may exist. For example if a birthday indicated in user profile data from social network A is different than a birthday indicated in user profile data from social network B then a conflict exists. A conflict may also exist between a user profile data item inputted by a user of the mobile application and a corresponding imported user profile data item. The mobile application determines that a conflict exist by comparing corresponding user profile data items e.g. two birthday dates or two job titles . The mobile application may then notify a user of a conflict through one or more notifications such as an audible notification or a visual notification. In this way the user is apprised of the conflict and is able to address the conflict by selecting or inputting the correct information.

The mobile application that imports user profile data from multiple social networks may visually indicate for each user profile data item which social networks provided data pertaining to that user profile data item. In the example of interface four of the five displayed profile data items are associated with social network identification data that indicates through logos two social networks from which the profile data items originate.

Based on the conflicts indicated in interface it can be deduced that a first conflict exists between LinkedIn and the user s input and a second conflict exists between Facebook and LinkedIn.

In an embodiment the mobile application maintains time data that indicates when an import of user profile data occurred and or when a manual input of user profile data occurred. For example if an import from social network A occurred on a particular date and time then that particular date and time are stored in association with the imported user profile data. The time data may be used by a user of the mobile application to quickly determine which information is more accurate. Additionally or alternatively the time data may be used by the mobile application as a tie breaker. For example if the job title information from social network A is associated with a later import date relative to the job title information from social network B then the mobile application selects the job title information from social network A as the most accurate or relevant job title for the user s profile.

In an embodiment the mobile application that is configured to decode the requested needed fields from QR codes provides security and or privacy with respect to a user s profile data.

If an ON button is displayed adjacent to a profile data item type e.g. Headline in then a manual confirmation is required to allow the corresponding profile data item to be transmitted to a campaign server. If a scanned QR code indicates that one or more of those profile data items are required or requested then the mobile application may first notify the user of the privacy setting and prompt for user input to a allow the one or more profile data items to be transmitted to a Campaign server or b terminate the process so that the one or more profile data items are not transmitted to a Campaign server. In interface manual confirmation is enabled with respect to the user s headline birthday and current location.

Conversely if an OFF button is displayed adjacent to a profile data item type e.g. Last Name in then a manual confirmation is not required to allow the corresponding profile data item to be transmitted to a campaign server. Thus if no manual confirmations are enabled then a user s profile data may be sent automatically to a Campaign server without requiring any input from the user. In interface manual confirmation is not enabled with respect to the user s first and last names biography and website.

If a user selects the ON button of a profile data item type then manual confirmation with respect to the corresponding profile data item will be disabled. Conversely if a user selects the OFF button of a profile data item type then manual confirmation with respect to the corresponding profile data item will be enabled.

In an embodiment a campaign server e.g. campaign server does not persistently store user profile information. Instead the Campaign server deletes user profile data received from a mobile application as soon as or shortly after the user profile data is a filled into a form or b transmitted to a partner server e.g. partner server . In this way the only persistent copies of a user s profile data is stored on the user s device which may be secured with one or more layers of protection and on one or more partner servers.

In an embodiment if a partner manually exports from a campaign server user profile data pertaining to one or more campaigns then the campaign server stores the user profile data persistently at least until the user profile data is exported. Until then the user profile data or a portion thereof such as first and last names and birthdays may be encrypted by the Campaign server.

In an embodiment if a partner desires to use a push mechanism to send messages to e.g. women only end users of the partner s campaigns then the Campaign server stores user profile data persistently even if the partner implements a callback web service that the campaign server uses upon receipt of user profile data.

In an embodiment a provider of QR codes provides an interface that allows partners or clients to create QR code campaigns and interact with users who have scanned their respective QR codes. The interface may be a web interface that is accessible to any web enabled computing device.

In interface one dynamic campaign or operation is displayed. Each dynamic campaign has certain attributes including a name a website on which the corresponding QR code is found a creation date and an update date if one exists . In this example selection of the name of an existing dynamic campaign i.e. test2 causes interface to be displayed.

In this example the name of the campaign is test2 the website on which a form with the corresponding QR code is found is www.cnn.com the creation date of the QR code campaign was Jun. 24 2014 and the latest update date if there are more than one is also Jun. 24 2014.

Interface also includes a link an edit button and a delete button that when selected deletes the corresponding QR code campaign. Selection of link causes an interface to be displayed that allows a user to view information about the QR code campaign. In this example user selection of link causes interface depicted in to be displayed.

Interface displays the name of the dynamic campaign a campaign or application ID that uniquely identifies the dynamic campaign the number of scans of QR codes of the dynamic campaign in this example zero scans have been performed a status of the availability of the QR codes in this example the QR codes are currently available and a button to obtain integration code to insert into a webpage of the partner or creator of the dynamic campaign. Selection of button causes a window depicted in to be displayed.

Window may be displayed over the display of interface . Window includes the campaign ID an optional JavaScript callback method and HTML code. The callback method is used to update the user interface on a web page as part of a dynamic scan. This is used in cases where a partner desires to update the web page after a scan by mobile application .

A user copies the HTML code and inserts the HTML code on a web page of the user s website. When the web page that includes the HTML code is rendered by a browser e.g. browser the browser will call a campaign server e.g. campaign server and pass the application ID which identifies the QR code campaign to the campaign server. In reply the campaign server will generate and send a QR code to the browser for display so that one or more end users that are viewing the browser can initiate a scan of the QR code.

Returning to interface if one or more scans of the QR code have been performed and user profile data was received from mobile devices based on the one or more scans then interface may include information about each of the scans such as the actual user profile data e.g. first and last name birthday address email address etc. and time data that indicates when each set of user profile data was received at the campaign server.

Information about scans may be aggregated and displayed on interface or another interface . Example aggregate information includes a number of scans aggregated over time e.g. per day or per month a number of scans aggregated based on location e.g. number of scans in the United States and number of scans in France and a number of scans aggregated based on attributes of the users e.g. number of scans by users who were born in December or number of scans of users who reside in a particular zip code .

Returning to interface of selection of edit button causes an interface to be displayed that allows a user to edit the corresponding campaign. In this example user selection of edit button causes interface depicted in to be displayed. Interface may be identical to a interface that is displayed if the Add new button in interface is selected.

Interface indicates the name of the campaign and allows a user to select a file to upload. The selected file can be used to customize the display of a QR code of the campaign such as customized QR code in .

Interface also allows a user to specify a callback web service provided by the user or the partner represented by the user. The campaign server that receives user profile data based on scans of QR codes of this campaign will send the user profile data to the specified web service.

Interface also includes a website text field that specifies the website upon which QR codes of this QR code campaign will be displayed. If this text field is filled in then a mobile application will display the website name in response to performing a scan of a QR code that is generated based on that campaign.

Interface may be displayed in response to selecting the Fixed link in the left pane of interface or . In this example interface indicates that two fixed QR code campaigns have been created and provides an opportunity to view the details of the fixed QR code campaigns edit the fixed QR code campaigns and delete the fixed QR code campaigns.

Interface also includes information about the two fixed QR code campaigns. Such information includes a created date that indicates when the corresponding QR code campaign was created an updated date that indicates when one or more attributes of the QR code campaign have been last updated a begin date for the corresponding QR code campaign which may be days or weeks after the creation date an end date for the corresponding QR code campaign which should be after the begin date and a limit that indicates a number of times the corresponding QR code may be used to upload user profile data. If the limit has been reached then the corresponding QR code campaign may end prior to the end date.

Interface also includes an Add new button that when selected causes interface depicted in to be displayed.

Interface is of an interface that allows a partner to specify 1 a name to a new fixed campaign 2 a file to upload for customizing a QR code for the fixed campaign 3 a callback web service to which user profile data received using the QR code will be sent 4 a begin date for the fixed campaign 5 an end date for the fixed campaign 6 a scan limit that limits the number of times the QR code may be used by mobile applications to transmit user profile data and 7 attributes or profile data item types such as first name last name email address phone number birthdate and current geographic location.

In an embodiment based on user profile data transmitted from one or more end users of the mobile application a partner can create messages that target those end users. The messages may notify the end users of deals bargains or discounts related to a product or service provided by the partner.

Interface depicted in is of an interface that allows a partner to view and create messages that can be pushed or sent to computing devices that have installed the mobile application e.g. mobile application . Interface may be displayed in response to selecting the Push Management text in the left pane of interfaces and .

In this example interface includes information about a push message that has already been created by a registered partner. Such information includes a name of the message text included in the message the campaign or operation as indicated in interface with which the message is associated the date on which the message was created and the date on which the message was last updated which may be the same as the creation date . Interface also includes buttons to send the corresponding message edit the corresponding message and delete the corresponding message. The interface also includes an Add new button that when selected causes interface depicted in to be displayed.

Interface allows a user to specify a title for a new message the message itself and one or more campaigns or operations . Thus if user A scanned a QR code for campaign 1 user B scanned a QR code for campaign 2 and a partner specifies both campaigns for a particular message then the particular message is sent to both users. The message may be emailed to an email address if the email addresses of the end users are known. Alternatively the message may be sent to the mobile applications e.g. mobile application of the end users when the corresponding mobile devices are connected to the Internet.

A message may include a URL that is user selectable to allow an end user to for example visit a webpage of the partner of the corresponding QR code campaign.

Interface depicted in may be displayed in response to user selection of the Pools text in the left pane of interfaces and . The interface of interface is similar to the interface of interface . Both interfaces allow a user to create a message that will be sent to end users of the mobile application. One difference is that the interface of interface allows a user to create a pool message which includes multiple options that an end user of the mobile application may select when viewing the message on his her mobile device. For example a pool message may be What destination for a vacation would you be most interested in Options that a partner may specify through the interface may include Europe the Caribbean Ak. China the Middle East and Africa. Again the pool message may be transmitted as an email or as a notification that mobile applications receive and store when the corresponding mobile devices are communicatively coupled to the Campaign server that maintains the pool message.

Interface depicted in may be displayed in response to user selection of the Feeds text in the left pane of interfaces and others. Interface allows a user to create a feed to which end users of the mobile application may subscribe. For example the mobile application may provide an interface that displays feeds to which a user may subscribe. Each feed is associated with a campaign in which the user participated by scanning the corresponding QR code. Interface allows a user to specify 1 a title for the feed which may be displayed to end users of the mobile application 2 a short message 3 a long message 4 a public option 5 a file and 6 one or more campaigns or operations . Short messages from different feeds are shown on an end user s mobile device in a list view. If a specific feed or short message is selected then the corresponding long messages will be displayed for example independent of any long messages of other feeds. The file is an image or graphic e.g. a logo that is associated with a feed and may be displayed in response to the feed being selected.

If the public option is checked for a particular feed then any user of the mobile application can view and subscribe to the particular feed regardless of whether the user has scanned a QR code of a campaign associated with the partner that established the particular feed. If the public option is not checked for a particular feed then only users that have scanned a QR code of a campaign associated with the partner that established the feed will be able to view the particular feed. The mobile application may include an interface that displays public feeds and private feeds if the mobile application scanned QR codes of campaigns associated with the private feeds .

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

