---

title: Online gaming tournament system having prizes for players in winning categories and method therefor
abstract: Disclosed herein is a video gaming system having a server and including a processor for executing computer program instructions and having a memory coupled to the processor for storing the computer program instructions, the programming instructions comprising: establishing at least one online video gaming tournament; accepting participants entry into the online video gaming tournament; establishing a tournament pool, which includes a system of rewards and wherein a percentage of rewards is distributed as winnings; distribution of winnings upon completion of the video gaming tournament the distribution being based upon the player's statistical game performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123205&OS=09123205&RS=09123205
owner: GAMING GRIDS, LLC
number: 09123205
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140529
---
The present patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 831 045 filed Jun. 4 2013 entitled GamingGrids.com Tournaments in the name of the same inventors and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The present patent application is further related to U.S. Pat. No. 8 663 012 entitled Networked Electronic Game Tournament Method and System in the name of Gary Weingardt and is hereby specifically incorporated herewith by reference for all purposes and in all sections of the specification.

This invention relates generally to an online video gaming system and more particularly to a video online gaming tournament that utilizes groups of players receiving prizes in their winning category s progressive jackpots and other features designed to increase the attractiveness and excitement of the game to the players

With the advent of wired and wireless communication networks i.e. Internet online computer gaming has become increasing popular with many people. Online services may allow for video game players to play against other players from all over the world. With such a large pool of potential players there is a correspondingly large range of player abilities ranging from the first time or occasional player to the daily devoted fan and even on to the ranks of professional video game players.

Some organized competitions such as tournaments may attempt to match players of equal skill. These online multi player tournaments have typically been in a Bracket or tree diagram or Ladder format which has limited availability consisting of the top players or teams. Because of this many people who may wish to participate opt not to as these players may not qualify or may feel that they are not good enough to participate. Further these online multi player tournaments generally only award the winning players or teams. Some consolation prizes may be awarded. However the vast majority of players generally have no realistic chance of winning any prize. As one can imagine the really large global tournaments under the present system provide the average player with a very small opportunity of success. In fact the most lucrative market currently is the Massively Multiplayer Online game tournament or MMO. These MMO tournaments attract huge gamer interest but also presently provide little opportunity for the average player to be rewarded. Additionally the Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game tournaments MMORPG require huge amounts of computer Attention time and storage space. There is no presently known computer system including hardware and software capable of handling the statistics required and thus the vast majority of players are left without proper customer service creating a significant issue in the industry. This is has been long felt and has been present since the inception of such games.

Therefore it is desirable to provide a new system and method that overcome the above issues. The new system and method should preferably be open to the massive public audiences MMO with rewards being presented to the majority of participants and at the same time rewarding the few outstanding players with progressive jackpots as well as other rewards systems. What is also needed to overcome existing issues is the computing ability to handle the massive amount of statistics for example present in an MMORPG.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts of the present invention in a simplified form that are further described in detail below in the DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION. This summary is not intended to identify each and every key feature of the invention which remains the exclusive purview of claims nor is the Summary intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present application a video gaming system is disclosed. The video gaming system has a server having a processor for executing program instructions and a memory coupled to the processor for storing the program instructions the programming instructions comprising establishing at least one online video gaming tournament accepting participants entry into the online video gaming tournament establishing a tournament pool which includes a system of rewards both monetary and non monetary a percentage of the rewards is distributed as winnings distribution of the winnings upon completion of the video gaming tournament. Additionally this embodiment uses a statistical server to keep track of gamer information including results of particular battles or engagements as well as skills achieved and levels earned as well as the result of each contest and the opponents relative strength.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present application an online video gaming tournament system is disclosed. In this exemplary embodiment the online video gaming tournament system has a plurality of video gaming servers for hosting a plurality of online video gaming tournaments wherein the plurality of online video gaming tournaments comprise at least one global online video gaming tournaments and at least one regional online video gaming tournaments. A statistical server is coupled to the plurality of video gaming servers having a processor for executing program instructions and a memory coupled to the processor for storing the program instructions the programming instructions comprising accepting of entry fee by participants in the online video gaming tournaments establishing a tournament pool wherein a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected is distributed as winnings establishing a dynamic participant ranking grid wherein a position of the participant on the dynamic participant ranking grid moves during and after the online video gaming tournaments wherein performance of the participant in game and skill ranking differential between at least two participants determine movement on the dynamic participant ranking grid establishing at least one progressive jackpot the at least one progressive jackpot is awarded based on skill based on one of achievements in the online video gaming tournament or combinations of skill sets or sequential skills or skill sets performed in the online video gaming tournament and payment of winnings after the video gaming tournaments have expired.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present application an online video gaming tournament system is disclosed. The online video gaming tournament system has a plurality of video gaming servers for hosting a plurality of online video gaming tournaments wherein the plurality of online video gaming tournaments comprise at least one global online video gaming tournaments and at least one regional online video gaming tournaments. A statistical server is coupled to the plurality of video gaming servers having a processor for executing program instructions and a memory coupled to the processor for storing the program instructions the programming instructions comprising accepting of entry fee by participants in the online video gaming tournaments establishing a tournament pool wherein a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected is distributed as winnings and a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected is distributed to predetermined non winning participants establishing a dynamic participant multi level multi tier ranking grid wherein a position of the participant on the dynamic participant ranking grid moves during and after the online video gaming tournaments wherein performance of the participant in game and skill ranking differential between at least two participants determine movement on the dynamic participant ranking grid establishing a plurality of progressive jackpots wherein at least one of the plurality of progressive jackpots is awarded based on skill based on one of achievements in the online video gaming tournament or combinations of skill sets or sequential skills or skill sets performed in the online video gaming tournament establishing virtual participant bank accounts payment of winnings distributed sand contained within the virtual participant bank account of the winning participants and payment of winnings after the video gaining tournaments have expired payment of winnings based on statistical game performance.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present application an online video gaming tournament system is disclosed which includes a server having a processor for executing program instructions and a memory coupled to the processor for storing the program instructions. The programming instructions include establishing at least one online video gaming tournament accepting an entry fee by participants in the online video gaining tournament establishing a tournament pool. In this exemplary embodiment a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected are distributed as winnings and there exists at least one progressive jackpot. The one progressive jackpot is awarded based on skill based achievements

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present application an online video gaining tournament system is disclosed. The video gaming system has a server having a processor for executing program instructions and a memory coupled to the processor for storing the program instructions the programming instructions comprising establishing at least one online video gaming tournament accepting of entry fee by participants in the online video gaming tournament establishing a tournament pool wherein a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected is distributed as winnings and establishing a consolation prize system to pay non winning participants a percentage of monies from the entry fee collected.

It will be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to games requiring an entry fee in any of the above or below described exemplary embodiments. Rather the invention covers both fee and non fee games. In fact it is envisioned that the invention herein may well be used with so called subscriber services. These are games where a subscriber pays the fees involved and not the participant. The participant merely pays the subscriber organization a regular fee be it monthly yearly or one time fee or the like. The subscriber may then put on his own tournaments and all of his subscribers are automatically invited for example.

The description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a detailed description of presently known exemplary embodiments of the disclosure and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present invention can may or could be constructed and or utilized. The detailed description sets forth the functions and the sequence of the steps for constructing and operating the disclosure in connection with the illustrated embodiments as well as the best mode of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions and sequences can be accomplished by different exemplary embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the spirit and scope of this invention.

The present system and method provides an online video gaming tournament. The present system and method utilizing the hundreds and thousands or even millions of existing multi player garners and creates tournaments around them where not only are the players competing indirectly against other players in other regions and countries but the players can also directly compete against other players while in the same game server on opposite teams or even on the same team. Players may not get eliminated horn a tournament and continue to play until the tournament expires. The present system and method may provide two types of tournaments non entry fee tournaments and entry free tournaments. Sometimes a subscriber service offers free tournaments that are put on by a particular subscriber service. These too are covered within the spirit and scope of the invention.

Referring to the exemplary embodiment of the invention the system is illustrated in schematic and generally denoted by the numeral . The system includes a plurality of game servers . The servers are divided based upon certain criteria. As shown in the servers may be divided based on geographic location region. However other criteria are possible and such is not meant as limiting the disclosure of the invention in any way. The system includes both regional contestants who may wish to play in a regional online gaming tournament as well as global contestants who may wish to play in a global online gaining tournament. The system may allow regional contestants and global contestants to have the option to enter both global and regional online gaming Tournaments. Alternatively within the spirit and scope of the invention the system may only include regional or exclusively include global tournaments. There may even be servers dedicated to particular game manufacturers or a particular category of games. In system the tournaments are played on the same game servers at the same time but displayed on separate grids as will be more fully appreciated below. Thus players can join a server in Atlanta and participate in a global and regional online gaming tournament because a player s performance statistics can be used in each online gaming tournament individually. In the system a contestants performance statistics is calculated and compared against the other online gaming tournament contestants or and that calculation may be used to determine the player s grid ranking and their price winnings.

The system in the exemplary embodiment shown uses servers which are public servers. By having public gaming servers the system allows contestants or of the online gaming tournaments to play with non tournament participants. This allows online gaming tournament contestants or to earn game statistics regardless of the amount of actual tournament participants. The use of public servers in the exemplary embodiment is not meant to be limiting of the invention. Within the spirit and scope of the invention the system uses private servers semi private servers and any other possible server presently known or to be invented and discovered that would accomplish the purposes herein.

Referring now to a global tournament is described in detail. For a global tournament global contestants are able to access one or more gaming servers . In the exemplary embodiment shown in the gaming servers are coupled to an application programming interface API . The API is used to calculate statistics related to the game being played on the servers . Global tournaments include gathering performance statistics for the global contestant from all the game servers around the world from a given game and game type and compiling then into a single ranking system determined by the API to be displayed on the grid. For example Player A located in Los Angeles Calif. USA can indirectly compete against Player B located in London England UK without directly playing against one another.

In a Global tournament the global contestants generally pay an entry fee. As shown in the exemplary embodiment of the entry fee is taken from a player s bank account . The player s bank account includes any type of account set up by the player be it real brick and mortar store or virtual. The player s bank account does not have to be an actual bank account but may be an online gaming account virtual game account a Paypal account or the like. Once an entry fee has been paid from the player s bank account the global contestants may be directed to an official server list of games on the game servers located around the world.

The global contestants may then play on one or multiple official game servers to obtain performance statistics. Those statistics may be calculated by the API and that may be used to determine a global contestants ranking and consequently their winnings. Once determined the API may transfer the winnings to the player s bank account of the global contestants .

As illustrated in a regional tournament will be described in more detail. For a regional tournament regional contestants access one or more regional gaming servers . The regional tournament consists of gathering performance statistics from specific regional game servers in a given geographical location such as United States West specific states in the United States or United Kingdom and compiling them via the API into a single ranking system to be displayed on the Grid. Player A located in Los Angeles Calif. USA can indirectly or directly compete with another player in the same region such as Seattle Wash. USA.

In a regional tournament a regional contestant may be required to pay an entry fee. The entry fee may be taken from a player s bank account . The player s bank account may be any type of account set up by the regional contestants . The player s bank account does not have to be an actual bank account but may be an online gaming account virtual game account a Paypal account or the like. Once an entry fee has been paid from the player s bank account the regional contestants may be directed to an official server list on the regional game servers located within a specific region. In this example this regional online gaming tournament is taking place across Central United States. The player may then play in one or multiple official regional game servers within a region to obtain performance statistics. Those statistics may be calculated and compared against other regional contestants through the API and may be used to determine a regional contestants ranking and consequently their winnings. Once determined the API may transfer the winnings to the player s bank account .

For a paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament all contestants or pay an entry fee to enter a tournament. After paying the entry fee the contestants or are presented with an official server list in which those players play in order to qualify for the tournament and become eligible for rewards. The entry fees are used to establish a tournament pool in one exemplary embodiment. A percentage of the money from entry fees may be collected and distributed from and to players. Once the tournament has expired the contestants or may receive their winnings based on their statistical game performance. All funds may be distributed and contained within a player s bank account until the contestants or submit a withdrawal request.

Referring now to description of one embodiment of a tournament pay table will be disclosed. In accordance with one embodiment approximately sixty percent of all tournament players may receive winnings with an approximate eighty five to ninety five percent game return. There may be a range of consolation groups from one to one hundred that may be paid out. Each consolation group may be populated by a percentage of the winning players.

As may be seen in the embodiment shown in Consolation Group One A may contain the top one percent of all paid contestants or participating in a tournament i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament and may split eight percent 8 of the Tournament Pool Consolation Group Two B may contain the next top two percent of all paid contestants or participating in the paid tournament i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament and may split eleven percent 11 of the Tournament Pool Consolation Group Three C may contain the next top six percent of all paid contestants or participating in the paid tournament i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament and may split thirteen and one half percent 13.5 of the Tournament Pool Consolation Group Four D may contain the next top eleven percent of all paid contestants or participating in the paid tournament i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament and may split nineteen percent 19 of the Tournament Pool Consolation Group Five E may contain the next top forty percent of all paid contestants or participating in the paid tournament i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament and may split forty four percent 44 of the Tournament Pool. This embodiment is not meant to be limiting it s merely descriptive of one embodiment. There could of course be more or less than five groups different monetary percentages for each group and different percentages for the number of players being paid in each group without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The system allows progressive jackpots. Progressive jackpots in the gambling industry are generally based on a predetermined winning combination s that is generally difficult to obtain and all having an element of chance. In video game tournaments chance is not allowed or it may be considered to be gambling which is currently illegal in all jurisdictions in the United States and most Countries. These tournaments i.e. paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament are generally based entirely on skill based achievements. The progressive jackpots are also be based on skill based achievements or combinations of skill sets or sequential skills or skill sets. For example being the first person to win a predetermined winning combination s of skill based achievements could be a first progressive jackpot based on non gambling scenarios. The above is given as an example and should not be seen in a limiting manner.

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram schematic illustrating an exemplary embodiment of the tournament pool distribution. In this embodiment the contestants or in the paid regional tournament or a paid global tournament pay the entry fee to participate. The entry fee may be placed into a tournament pool . In this embodiment a small percent of every tournament pool is reserved and divided between a plurality of progressive tournament pools A. In the exemplary embodiment of three progressive tournament pools A Primary Pool Secondary Pool and Tertiary Pool are visible and obtainable by tournament players and there are hidden tournament pools which are created to replenish the Primary Pool once it has been paid out or hit. A percentage of the Primary Pool may be reserved for the Secondary Pool and the Tertiary Pool . The above is only shown as an exemplary embodiment. There may be more or less Progressive Tournament pools A as well as different means for allocating distribution of the rewards without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

It accordance with another embodiment of the present invention the Secondary Pool and Tertiary Pool pools may have Hidden Pools .

Progressive tournament pools A may be won in different manners. For example to win the Tertiary Pool a paid player Places third or better four times in the same game and tournament type. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment the Secondary Pool may be awarded after the Tertiary Pool has been won. Once the Tertiary Pool has been won to in for the Secondary Pool a paid player may have to Place in second or better three times in the same game and tournament type. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment once the Tertiary Pool and Secondary Pool have been won to qualify for the Primary Pool a contestant may have to Place in first two times in the same type of tournament for the same game. The above are only given as examples and should not be seen in a limiting manner.

Referring to there is shown an exemplary embodiment of the tournament pool distribution. In a Contestant A from one of the paid regional tournaments or paid global tournaments wins the Tertiary Pool . Then Contestant B may win the Secondary Pool only after the Tertiary Pool has been hit. Then any contestant can win the Primary Pool but only after the Tertiary Pool and Secondary Pool have been hit.

In the event that the Primary Pool is won Hidden Pools are allocated. For example Hidden Pool 1 in one exemplary embodiment is allocated to the Primary Pool Hidden Pool 2 is allocated to Hidden Pool 1 and Hidden Pool 3 is depleted to zero. This may be used to help prevent the Primary Pool from starting at an insignificant dollar amount. This progressive embodiment is not meant to be limiting its merely descriptive of one exemplary embodiment. In Game skills and skill sets could also be used in competing scenarios to form progressive jackpots.

In an exemplary embodiment of the system the API is stored on a server A within the system in accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments of the present invention. The server can take the form of a computer server and more specifically a web server. The server A can include ROM operating system and software instructions RAM central processor unit CPU network interface to connect the server storing the API to the gaming servers and a data storage device. A conventional personal computer or computer workstation with sufficient memory and processing capabilities can be used as the server A. Alternatively multiple interconnected servers can also serve as the server.

In another exemplary embodiment using the cube of the API factors into the ranking the player s or team s performance in game and skill ranking differential between the two players or teams in determining actual grid movement during and after a match and a player s or team s post match ranking. Skill ranking and new skills are earned during a match and those skills are updated during the match and reflected in the cube . Post match performance algorithms assign a percentage of the losing players skill ranking to the winning player or declares an in game performance score multiplier which effectively transfers skill rating from a losing player to a winning player or rewards a winning player with additional skill ranking rating points based on an outcome with a higher ranked player in addition to any already calculated performance data from the match game statistics.

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary embodiment of the grid . In this embodiment the API generates a ranking grid . The grid is a unique multi level multi tier grid. In accordance with this embodiment the grid has 100 positions 10 levels with 10 tiers player ranking grid per tournament per game.

The grid is used for rating and ranking players skill based on live and real time or past performance within the given game and or tournament by means of skill rating algorithms and mathematics that are processed during and after each tournament match. The higher of a players skill the higher they are visually seen and programmatically ranked on the grid high being towards upper left L1T1 Level 1 Tier 1 as may be seen in .

The grid has the ability to function in a dynamic mode enabling the Level 1 Tier 1 position to have a minimum numerical skill ranking equal to that of the highest ranked player and then allow for an exponential decrease in minimum maximums required per each level tier combination until the bottom level 10 tier 10 is reached which in most cases is at 0.

During a tournament players may join via one of two methods 1 manually by using a user interface of a website mobile applications or other deemed user interface applications or 2 automatically by having enabled an Auto Join Feature which may intelligently join a user to a tournament based on defined and agreed upon criteria once the system detects that the player is playing in a sanctioned tournament server location .

Players may play throughout the tournament within one or multiple Game Servers locations from this point the system may handshake with the game server and pull real time or near real time game play performance and commit to the grid via use of the API exposing public facing methods to allow for on demand grid calculation algorithmic processing for player performance data obtained within the aforementioned server s .

Once player performance data has been fed from the game server s of the tournament s the API processes gamer performance into numerical rating and ranking scores which are then plotted on the appropriate tournament grid s from this point once a tournament has expired or otherwise completed based on the allotted play time the system calculates player positions rewards and progressive jackpot s tournament pool s issuance based on the player rating ranking as demonstrated per the placement on the actual tournament gaming grid . The grid has the ultimate responsibility of determining player skill ranking within the game and determining what player s get rewarded as well as visually showing to players users and bystanders the progress and performance of players within.

The system may operate a unique 100 position 10 levels with 10 tiers player ranking grid per tournament per game. The grid is responsible for rating and ranking players skill based on live and real time or past performance within the given game and or tournament by means of unique skill rating algorithms and mathematics that are processed during and after each tournament match. The higher of a player skill the higher they are visually seen and programmatically ranked on the grid high being towards upper left L1T1 Level 1 Tier 1 .

The grid has the ability to function in a dynamic mode enabling the Level 1 Tier 1 position to have a minimum numerical skill ranking equal to that of the highest ranked player and then allow for an exponential decrease in minimum maximums required per each level tier combination until the bottom level 10 tier 10 is reached which in most cases is at 0.

Players may play throughout the tournament within one or multiple sanctioned Game Servers locations i.e Game Server running Game A or Game Server running Game B from this point the system may handshake with the game servers and pull real time or near real time game play performance and commit to the grid via use of the API exposing public facing methods to allow for on demand grid calculation algorithmic processing for player performance data obtained within the aforementioned server s .

Once player performance data has been fed from the game server s of the tournament s the system processes gamer performance into numerical rating and ranking scores which may then be plotted on the appropriate tournament grid s i.e Grid for Game A or Grid for Game B from this point once a tournament has expired or otherwise completed based on the allotted play time the system may calculate player positions rewards and progressive jackpot s tournament pool s issuance based on the player rating ranking as demonstrated per the placement on the actual tournament gaming grid . The grid has the ultimate responsibility of determining player skill ranking within the game and determining what player s get rewarded as well as visually showing to players users and bystanders the progress and performance of players within.

The system may be expanded to so that the grid technology can incorporate millions of players that will be playing from around the world. The grids may be configured into a 3 Dimensional Cube as shown in which can have a multitude of functions. i.e. player ratings types of games amounts of the various progressive prizes or any other functions of the games that need and or players want displaying. In addition to ranking players a portion of the 3 Dimensional Cube may in an exemplary embodiment be dedicated to ranking the game itself comparing the instant game to other games on the 3 Dimensional Cube . Since the 3 Dimensional Cube is capable of serving many games the various games may be compared to one another and ranked against one another.

As illustrated in exemplary embodiment of the 3 Dimensional Cube of the cube includes a plurality of stacked grids . The stacked grids having a plurality of levels and each level having a plurality of tiers A

In the exemplary embodiment of the 3 Dimensional Cube in the cube gives the tournament the functionality and the flexibility to allow players of multiple level skills to compete against one another on a generally level playing field. As a player progresses through the game s skill levels and acquires new skills the player receives increasingly greater challenges. However as a result of using the ranking functionality of the 3 Dimensional Cube players mostly compete against players of equal Or lesser skill levels for example within 5 to 10 level range based on Cube schema 1 or Cube schema 2.

With particular reference to there is illustrated an exemplary embodiment of the 3 dimensional cube . In the embodiment illustrated the 3 dimensional cube includes a plurality of stacked grid levels resulting in a minimum and maximum of 10 levels of difference in the player skill during play on that level of the cube section. As the player progresses to the next cube level 10 in game experience levels are earned prior to attaining the next cube level. This repeats itself until a player goes as far as possible based upon the player s skill level.

Interlaced and offset cube level layers produce a fixed effect for the player as the player enters the next cube level at the middle of the skill levels thus having a or 5 level difference in actual skill as the player proceeds through the cube levels. The same format pertains to this cube level as in Schema 2. As the player progresses to the next cube level 10 in game experience levels are earned. These levels must be earned prior to attaining the next cube level. This repeats itself until a player goes as far as possible based upon the player s skill level.

While embodiments of the disclosure have been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the claims.

