---

title: Extended connectivity multimedia apparatus, multimedia presentation system, and method of transporting credentials obtained via near-field communication (NFC)
abstract: Credential data are obtained by a remote control from a credential-bearing device through a near-field communication (NFC) data exchange. The credential data are transmitted by the remote control and are received by an extended connectivity device through its wireless communication interface. A transaction is conducted with a network-connected service through the wireless communication interface of the extended connectivity device using the received credential data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232260&OS=09232260&RS=09232260
owner: 
number: 09232260
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141113
---
This application is a continuation application claiming benefit of U.S. patent application No. 14 469 884 filed with United States Patent and Trademark Office on Aug. 27 2014 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application No. 11 689 365 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 887 212 filed with United States Patent and Trademark Office on Mar. 21 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 783 825 filed with United States Patent and Trademark Office on Mar. 21 2006. The disclosures of the foregoing patent applications are incorporated herein in their respective entireties by reference.

The present general inventive concept relates to a point of deployment POD module and a method thereof. More specifically the present general inventive concept relates to a wireless point of deployment POD module and a method thereof.

Broadband communication systems such as satellite and cable television systems are now capable of providing many services in addition to broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the set top terminal STT otherwise known as a set top box has become an important computing device for accessing various video services. In addition to supporting traditional broadcast video functionality many STTs now also provide other functionality such as an Interactive Program Guide IPG video on demand VOD subscription video on demand SVOD and functionality traditionally associated with a conventional computer such as web browsing e mail and instant messaging. Some newer STTs also have the ability to record an incoming video stream in digitized form onto a storage device such as a hard disk drive and playback that recorded video as desired by the user. This functionality has become known as a digital video recorder DVR or personal video recorder PVR and is viewed as a superior alternative to conventional video tape recorders for capture and subsequent playback of programming content.

Furthermore digital televisions that are capable of receiving signals directly from the communications systems are now available in the market. In this case the television does not necessarily require the STT. Typically the signals are encrypted prior to sending them through the communications systems so a point of deployment POD module is required in order for the television to display the encrypted signals. Cable Television Laboratories Inc. CableLabs a research and development consortium has defined specifications for a POD module CableCARD for use with a host device such as a television or STT.

A CableCARD is a PCMCIA Type II form factor device which plugs into the conditional access CA slot on a host device and decrypts input signals received via cable. Cable providers distribute these modules to better ensure that the owners of the host devices have paid for the services and programs being accessed.

The CableCARD will selectively descramble the content only if the customer is authorized. CableCARDs are designed to descramble scrambled content into a clear format for viewing and or listening and may impose constraints and conditions on the recording and playback when the content is copy protected through re scrambling as it flows back to the host device.

The POD module may be one way i.e. decrypts incoming signals only or two way i.e. decrypts incoming signals and transmits signals to the headend . A two way CableCARD is also referred to as an advanced multi stream CableCARD or AMS CableCARD.

The use of POD modules such as CableCARD is not limited to use with cable systems. In Europe for example POD devices called Common Interface Modules are used in the satellite industry. These modules are also PCMCIA Type II form factor based devices. The invention described herein applies equally to all types of POD modules including but not limited to CableCARDs and Common Interface Modules.

While POD modules obviate the need for STTs that perform the same functions described above the current generation of POD modules has several limitations which have impeded their widespread use. For example the current generation of CableCARDs deployed in the United States are one way and do not provide for an Interactive Program Guide Video on Demand control functions interactive and enhanced services pay per view and other capabilities. While two way CableCARDs have been developed and should provide some of these features in the future there exists a backward compatibility problem with existing host devices that only support one way CableCARD modules. Accordingly there is a need in the art for a two way POD module that can work with an older generation of hosts that only support one way communication.

Even with the newer CableCARDs that support two way communication consumers are still faced with having to purchase multiple media devices in order to satisfy their entertainment needs. These media devices include for example digital video recorders e.g. TiVo and ReplayTV terminals network entertainment systems e.g. Microsoft Media Center based devices datacast receivers e.g. MovieBeam Internet based set top terminals e.g. MSN TV and Apple TV and gaming terminals e.g. Microsoft Xbox 360 . These devices tend to be expensive and take valuable real estate within the home. With an ever increasing number of media devices available in the market there is a need in the art for a POD module that can perform the same functions as many of these media devices as possible thereby eliminating their need. This benefit is also important in context of the increasing availability and demand for liquid crystal display LCD televisions plasma televisions and other types of display devices that can be mounted on a wall. Consumers that acquire these types of display devices would generally prefer to eliminate visible set top boxes and cabling for simplification and esthetic reasons.

In a separate trend an increasing processing speed and a reduced size of electronic components has contributed to a proliferation of personal computers capable of handling digital media. The explosive growth of the Internet and the World Wide Web have resulted in a correlative increase in the downloading and sharing of audio visual files including videos music and photos. As powerful personal computers become a repository for digital content and offer functionality such as Internet file sharing digital recording content editing multimedia time shifting network gaming and other capabilities it is increasingly desirable to provide a seamless interconnection between the personal computer and television to allow the capabilities of the personal computer and content stored therein to be made accessible through the television. Such connectivity would further obviate the need for STTs that provide functionality capable of being delivered by personal computers within the home.

A problem remains in getting personal computers to communicate with television sets. In some cases a direct physical connection must be established between the television and the personal computer using for example a FireWire connector Universal Serial Bus USB connector or some other type of input. Often the two devices do not have compatible connectors to allow for direct connectivity. When compatible connector types are available such connectivity methods are limiting in that the personal computer must be tethered to the television while communicating. If a desktop computer and television are in different locations it is sometimes not possible to connect the devices via cable due to the distance that may be involved. Even if the devices can be connected while in different rooms there is generally no way to remotely control the personal computer.

The use of network connected STTs obviates some of these problems. An STT can be used to access digital content stored on a personal computer over a data network for viewing on a television to which it is directly interfaced. Such STTs can be expensive and often provide functionality that overlaps with personal computers. Accordingly there is a need in the art for an improved method apparatus and system that allows personal computers to connect with and stream digital content to a television over a data network without the need for a STT.

Wireless connectivity offers one of the most flexible means by which to connect a television and a personal computer. Short range wireless capability using standards such as IEEE 802.11 all current and future subsections BLUETOOTH Ultra Wideband UWB and others are presently being integrated into personal computers. Wireless technology obviates the need for cables and adapters provides for mobility within a certain range and also allows data to be remotely accessed from another location. LAN connectivity via Ethernet or powerlines within the home could also allow television sets and personal computers to interconnect. Unfortunately a large base of installed digital televisions and those being sold on the market today do not provide for either wireless or wireline access to a data network. As such there is a need in the art for a POD module that provides add on network connectivity to existing television sets and other hosts thereby eliminating the need for STTs that perform this function. There is a further need for a POD module that is capable of processing digital content e.g. IPTV video downloads etc. received via a data network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet. There is a further need for a POD module that facilitates the remote control of a media player device such as a personal computer over a data network in order to manipulate the transmission of digital content between the media player and television.

CableLabs OpenCable specification defines the Point of Deployment module POD or CableCARD module used in conjunction with the host device such as the television or a set top terminal STT as depicted in . The OpenCable specification defines an interface between the host device and the CableCARD module that allows the host device and the CableCARD module to interoperate with each other even if the host device and the CableCARD module were produced by different vendors.

As illustrated in the CableCARD module is interfaced with the host device via a CableCARD or POD interface. The cable is used as a transmission medium to send the cable signal such as content or data to and from the host device . The content is supplied as a stream of modulated data e.g. a modulated multiplexed MPEG 2 data stream to the tuner that selects a particular channel of the incoming content. The tuned content is provided to the demodulator which is then provided to an inband INB data port of the CableCARD . The demodulated data stream is supplied to the Conditional Access CA decrypter module .

After the demodulated data stream is processed by the CA decrypter module the demodulated data stream is re encrypted by the Copy Protection CP encrypter and is returned to the host device . Within the host device the encrypted data is decrypted at the CP decrypter and then supplied to the demultiplexer which separates the multiplexed data stream into a MPEG compliant A V signal. The demultiplexed data from the demultiplexer is provided to the MPEG decoder that decodes the MPEG data and presents the decoded MPEG data to the graphics controller to process the MPEG data and output the processed data to the digital display unit and the stereo audio codec module processes an audio signal and outputs the processed audio signal to the speakers which are integrated with the host device .

Out of Band data OOB can also be communicated via the cable using the OOB modem which for example may have a Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK transmitter and receiver . The CableCARD module can also send and receive commands and information using the CPU which communicates with the second CPU of the host device via the CPU port of the CableCARD module . The host device may have a DOCSIS compliant modem not illustrated that further allows data received from a cable provider to be transmitted to the CableCARD module . Data transmitted from the CableCARD module to the host device may also be forwarded to the service provider through the DOCSIS compliant modem.

As described above CableCARDs are one way and do not provide for an Interactive Program Guide Video on Demand control functions interactive and enhanced services pay per view and other capabilities. Although two way CableCARDs have been developed to provide some of the above features a backward compatibility problem exists in that the host devices support only one way CableCARD modules. Accordingly there is a need for a two way POD module that can work with an older generation of hosts that only support one way communication. Even with a newer CableCARD that supports two way communication consumers are still faced with having to purchase multiple STTs that provide digital video recording and playback multimedia time shifting gaming Internet downloading and a remote access to digital content stored on network connected media player devices such as personal computers and the like.

However a conventional POD module cannot properly communicate with other personal electronic devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs cellular phones music players video players game players etc. Such media player devices frequently store large amounts of digital content are able to connect to the Internet and exchange data with other electronic devices via a wire or wireless interface. As it may be desirable to view and or listen to the digital content stored in the above devices through a television there is a need for a POD module that can provide the necessary connectivity options and functionality to facilitate such operation.

Credential data are obtained by a remote control from a credential bearing device through a near field communication NFC data exchange. The credential data are transmitted by the remote control and are received by an extended connectivity device through its wireless communication interface. A transaction is conducted with a network connected service through the wireless communication interface of the extended connectivity device using the received credential data.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present general inventive concept examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present general inventive concept by referring to the figures.

Conditional Access CA devices such as CableCARDs are typically built in accordance with prescribed physical and electrical standards to ensure compatibility with host devices manufactured by different vendors. The wireless POD module which is described herein is embodied in a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA Type II form factor device that can be inserted into a CA slot of a host e.g. television . The Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA has published an industry standard corresponding to physical designs dimensions and electrical interfaces of PC cards. For example the PCMCIA standards acknowledge among other things Type I Type II and Type III form factors where each form factor is characterized by specific dimensional and electrical attributes. All cards which conform to the various form factors of the PCMCIA standards have the same length and width. More specifically all cards which conform to the various form factors of the PCMCIA standards are 85.6 millimeters long and 54 millimeters wide. However a distinguishing physical characteristic among the various form factors of the PCMCIA standards involve thicknesses of each particular card. More specifically Type I cards are 3.3 millimeters thick Type II cards are 5.0 millimeters thick and Type III cards are 10.5 millimeters thick.

The PCMCIA standard also defines a requisite electrical interface requirement corresponding to the card and the host device. The requisite electrical interface requirement includes a specified bus interface and the host device must include at least one PCMCIA card slot which includes one 68 pin electronic connector that is adapted to physically and electronically receive a card which conforms to a particular PCMCIA electrical and physical standard.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present general inventive concept may be integrated in or adapted to various other peripheral form factors PC cards memory cards computer systems STTs and other devices.

In this embodiment the wireless POD module is designed and configured to CableLabs CableCARD specifications in order to allow CableCARD compliant host devices to interoperate. Other specifications could be utilized while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

The wireless POD module includes a housing that encloses internally various electrical components which are integrated on a printed circuit board PCB . In the present embodiment the housing has a thickness or height which conforms to the PCMCIA Type II standard. The wireless POD module includes an extending portion that protrudes outwardly when the card is received in the CA slot of the host. A recessed portion of the wireless POD module incorporates among other components various types of connectors which allow compatible cables to be interfaced with the wireless POD module while the card is inserted in the CA slot of the host. In the present embodiment one or more RF antennas which are integrated into the wireless POD module are housed within the recessed portion thereof.

A connector may be a PCMCIA connector having 68 standard sockets. The connector communicates with electronic circuitry of the wireless POD module is disposed at one end of the housing and is configured to connect to a corresponding 68 pin connector of a CA card slot of a host of . The wireless POD module is inserted in the CA slot of the host so that the connector of the wireless POD module is engaged by the connector of the CA slot. In this way the wireless POD module is physically and electrically connected to a host computer of the host to facilitate communication between the electronic circuitry of the wireless POD module and the host . Such communications are performed over an interface PCMCIA POD interface Logic and an interface of a card host i.e. the host . The card host interface of the host may include three sub interfaces such as a CPU interface an inband interface and an out of band interface. The card host interface may support a myriad of different CableCARD specifications. For example the CableCARD Interface 2.0 Specification defines a CableCARD device host interface CHI which contains the three sub interfaces supported herein. The card host interface of the host includes the CPU interface to support a command channel and an extended channel the out of band OOB interface to receive out of band OOB data under two different delivery methods ANSI SCTE 55 1 2002 and ANSI SCTE 55 2 2002 and the inband interface for MPEG 2 Transport Stream input and output.

The CPU interface carries all the communication between the application s running in the wireless POD module and the host . This functionality includes an ability to support complex combinations of transactions between the wireless POD module and the host and an extensible set of functional primitives objects which allow the host to provide resources to the wireless POD module . The wireless POD module can send and receive commands using a CPU e.g. processor microprocessor etc. which communicates with a CPU of the host via a CPU port of the connector of the wireless POD module .

The interface and or the card host interface may have an extended channel interface to enable information to be exchanged between the host and the wireless POD module . For instance the host may transmit a message to indicate its device type e.g. television set top box receiver etc. . Similarly the wireless POD module may transmit a message to indicate its type. After the exchange of information and determination that the host is in communication with the wireless POD module certain bits of the interface and or the host interface of the host are reconfigured to support out of band signaling and operate as an OOB interface.

The OOB interface may be implemented as a unidirectional communication path from the host to the wireless POD module . Program data e.g. system information Entitlement Management Message etc. transmitted over the OOB interface may be modulated in accordance with any of a variety of modulation schemes. For example the program data may undergo QPSK modulation. However other modulation schemes may be performed according to the program data. The OOB interface may support bi directional communications e.g. 2 way QPSK signaling as illustrated in . Messages from an out of band processing circuit of the host can arrive at an OOB processing block .

The extended channel interface enables one or more copy protection keys to be established. The copy protection key is derived by an exchange of information between the host and the wireless POD module . Either the host or the wireless POD module may initiate generation of the copy protection key.

The inband interface includes one or more multi bit communication paths. For example the inband interface can carry MPEG 2 transport packets in both directions. One or more scrambled streams of digital content may be received by the wireless POD module from the host to perform descrambling. Accordingly one or more copy protected bit streams may be transmitted from the wireless POD module to the host. The copy protected bit stream features descrambled content which is received from the host that is encrypted with the previously negotiated copy protection key.

One or more streams of digital content received by the wireless POD module via one of its other interfaces e.g. cable wireless Ethernet etc. may be copy protected and transmitted to the host via the inband interface.

Transport stream formats other than MPEG 2 could be supported by the wireless POD module while remaining within the scope and spirit of the present general inventive concept.

Referring still to the wireless POD module may include a media processing module which may further include the CPU an OOB processing block a transcoder a 2D 3D graphics engine and a media switch . The CPU controls and coordinates all wireless POD module functions. All the components of the Media Processing Module represented in could be integrated onto one chip. The wireless POD module may further include a PCMCIA POD Interface block a memory controller a non volatile memory i.e. Flash a volatile memory i.e. RAM a hard disk drive controller a hard disk drive a cryptographic block a tuner a demodulator an OOB modem a cable connector and support circuitry an . radio transceiver an . antenna a BLUETOOTH radio transceiver a BLUETOOTH antenna an Ethernet transceiver and an RJ connector and support circuitry .

While not depicted the wireless POD module may integrate a coin cell. The coin cell is a battery that supplies power to battery backed memory which is deployed within the wireless POD module . For instance a portion of volatile memory in the unit may be battery backed to operate as non volatile memory.

The cryptographic block includes a CA decrypter and a CP encrypter . Cryptographic block may be configured as a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP etc. The cryptographic block may be designed and configured to support multiple conditional access CA operations according to the teachings of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 815 484 filed on Mar. 31 2004 and incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

In the present embodiment the Media Processing Module incorporates a processor i.e. CPU or microprocessor which is embodied in a chip with multiple cores. Single and dual core chips could also be used while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept. The processor runs a real time operating system to enable an efficient and predictable response to real time events. The processor is configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with the wireless POD module . For example using instructions retrieved from memory the processor may control reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of the wireless POD module . The processor may execute an instruction while under control of an operating system or other software. The processor can be a single chip processor or can be implemented with multiple components.

The processor may operate together with an operating system to execute computer code and produce and use data. The computer code and data may reside within a program storage block that is operatively coupled to the processor . The program storage block may include Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM a hard disk drive HDD flash memory etc. RAM is conventionally used by the processor as a general storage area and as scratch pad memory and can also be used to store input data and processed data. ROM can be used to store instructions or program code to be executed by the processor as well as other data. Hard disk drives can be used to store operating system software application software media content and various other types of data and can permit fast access to large amounts of stored data.

The Media Processing Module further includes a transcoder which may be an embedded software based transcoder within the CPU . Alternatively a transcoding function could be performed by a separate ASIC FPGA or DSP. Any suitable hardware software firmware or other transcoding method and or apparatus can be utilized to accomplish the transcoding function without limitation.

The transcoder is a multimedia transcoder to receive and process a plurality of television video audio and image formats including MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 3 MPEG 4 SP ASP MPEG 7 MPEG 21 DV DivX 3 4 5 AVC H.264 WMV9 H.323 Dolby Pro Logic Dolby Digital AC 3 MP2 MP3 L2 AAC WMA9 JPEG GIF BMP and PNG. The transcoded data which is output from the transcoder is in an MPEG 2 data format. The transcoder could support incoming data in formats other than those mentioned herein and can output data in a format other than the MPEG 2 format while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept. Video transcoder functionality corresponding to POD or CableCARD modules is outlined in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 774 870 filed on Feb. 9 2004. The transcoder functionality specified herein incorporates elements of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 774 870 but is designed to accommodate processing of multimedia streams television video audio and image . The streams which require transcoding may either be received from the host via the PCMCIA connector interface of the wireless POD module or externally via any of the wireless or wired interfaces of the wireless POD module . The wireless POD module can capture media processing capability information of the host and the transcoder can use this media processing capability information to produce an output that is compatible with the host .

A discussion of how input media streams are processed by the wireless POD module is now provided as a way to illustrate the function of various components. Television media streams received by the wireless POD module via any of its interfaces may first be decrypted by the CA decrypter and then transcoded to MPEG 2 by the transcoder .

The Media Switch mediates between the microprocessor CPU the hard disk drive or other storage device and the memory . After input streams are transcoded the MPEG stream is sent to the Media Switch . The Media Switch buffers the MPEG stream into memory. The Media Switch subsequently performs two operations if the user is viewing real time programming through the host television . More specifically the MPEG stream is simultaneously supplied to the CP encrypter to transmit the MPEG stream to the host via the PCMCIA connector interface in accordance with the OpenCable specifications and is also written to the integrated hard disk drive or other storage unit.

The Media Switch can parse the resulting MPEG stream and can separate the resulting MPEG stream into video and audio components before storing the video and audio components on the hard disk drive . The Media Switch then stores the video and audio components into temporary buffers. Events are recorded that indicate a type of component that has been found where the component is located and when the events occurred. Program logic is notified that the event has occurred and the data is extracted from the buffers.

The buffers allow the CPU to not be required to parse the MPEG stream in real time thereby resulting in slower CPU and bus speeds which translate to lower system costs.

Stored media can be manipulated using a multimedia time warping functionality of the wireless POD module . The multimedia time warping functionality allows users to view live programs with an option of instantly reviewing previous segments within a particular program by using an integrated digital storage unit e.g. the HDD and operating software of the wireless POD module . In addition the present general inventive concept allows a user to store selected television programs in the wireless POD module while the user is simultaneously watching or reviewing another program.

As mentioned above the video and audio components are stored on the integrated hard disk drive . When a desired program is requested to be displayed on the display unit of the host the video and audio components are extracted from the hard disk drive and are reassembled by the Media Switch into an MPEG stream. The MPEG stream is then sent to the CP encrypter to be processed and subsequently returned to the host .

An accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control or keyboard which is designed to operate with the wireless POD module can be used to access stored content to be viewed on the display unit of the host and to manipulate the content during viewing. Command signals which originate from the remote control are accepted via the BLUETOOTH transceiver of the wireless POD module and are processed by the CPU . These command signals affect a flow of the MPEG stream and allow the user to view stored content with at least the following functions reverse fast forward play pause index fast slow reverse play and fast slow play.

In the present embodiment the Media Switch includes a data bus that connects to the CPU and RAM . An address bus is also shared between the Media Switch the CPU and the RAM . The hard disk drive is connected to one of the ports of the Media Switch . The Media Switch may output content to the CP encrypter e.g. to output the content to the host or to one of the wireless or wired interfaces e.g. to output the content to a network connected media device .

The Media Switch can be implemented in hardware using a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP discrete logic or other configuration.

The multimedia time warping system of the wireless POD module is similar to the functionality available in consumer DVRs such as those offered by TiVo and ReplayTV . A multimedia time warping system is described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 233 389 assigned to TiVo Inc. and hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference. Other multimedia time warping systems and methods could be incorporated in the wireless POD module while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

Referring to the wireless POD module includes the hard disk drive that gives the wireless POD module a massive storage capacity. The hard disk drive capacity may be widely varied e.g. 10 20 50 100 GB etc. . In the present embodiment the internal hard disk drive is an ultra high performance drive that interfaces with the Media Switch via a serial ATA SATA hard disk drive controller . The wireless POD module supports simultaneous reading and writing of multiple media streams from and to the hard disk drive .

The hard disk drive could use any number of disk storage technologies capable of holding encoded information including optical magnetic holographic etc. Other types of integrated or removable storage devices could be used in lieu of the hard disk drive while remaining within the scope and spirit of the present general inventive concept. A designated storage unit may be used to store data applications programming or any other suitable information.

The wireless POD module further integrates ultra fast Random Access Memory RAM . In the present embodiment the RAM is Double Data Rate II DDR2 memory. Other types of RAM could be used also. The RAM interfaces with the Media Processing Module through a memory controller .

The wireless POD module also integrates a flash memory module that provides non volatile storage. The flash memory also interfaces with the Media Processing Module via the memory controller . The CPU executes programs stored in the non volatile flash memory .

Referring to an explanation of various interfaces of a wireless POD module is provided to illustrate how media content may be received processed and further transmitted. As previously mentioned the wireless POD module can be designed and configured to receive and process content from a host in accordance with the OpenCable specifications. A cable television network cable is connected to the host e.g. television to provide the host with cable television network content from a cable network as illustrated in . The cable television network content is supplied as a stream of modulated data e.g. a modulated multiplexed MPEG 2 data stream to a tuner within the host .

In accordance with the present general inventive concept the wireless POD module may be able to direct the tuner within the host to tune to a specific channel or out of band frequency. The wireless POD module may direct the tuner to tune to a channel or out of band frequency when a user utilizes an accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control to send a signal to the wireless POD module which further directs the host to change channels when a digital recorder of the wireless POD module is set to begin recording a program or when an interactive television application operates on the module . When the host has multiple tuners the POD module may direct the host to tune multiple channels or out of band frequencies at the same time. For example having multiple tuners within the host allows the user to view a channel record another channel and obtain information from an out of band frequency at the same time.

Once the tuner selects a particular channel of incoming content based on instructions from the POD module the tuned content is further provided to a demodulator which is then provided to the inband INB data port of the wireless POD module . Within the POD module the demodulated data is provided to the CA decrypter and is decrypted as previously described with reference to . The decrypted data is then supplied to a transcoder if required which transforms the data into a format e.g. MPEG 2 that is compatible with the host .

The Media Switch then buffers the media stream into memory and performs two operations if the user is viewing live television. More specifically the media stream is simultaneously supplied to a CP Copy Protection encrypter to be transmitted to the host and the media stream is also written to a hard disk drive or other storage unit. Stored media can be accessed and manipulated using the BLUETOOTH remote control and the multimedia time warping system of the wireless POD module as described above with reference to .

However the host may not be configured to allow a CA module to tune the tuner . As certain CA modules like the current generation of CableCARD s do not provide for an Interactive Program Guide a user may only be limited to recording programs that are being viewed during recording. As a way to address such problems the wireless POD module may allow the host to directly input output to an antenna satellite system cable network or other suitable source. The wireless POD module may integrate multiple connectors in its housing and may be configured to process analog and digital signals received directly from a plurality of sources. Accordingly the wireless POD module may include multiple tuners and a demodulator which can a plurality of signal types.

The wireless POD module may support National Television Standards Committee NTSC Syst me lectronique pour Couleur avec M moire SECAM Phase Alternating Line PAL and digital standards such as Digital Satellite System DSS Digital Broadcast Services DBS and Advanced Television Standards Committee ATSC . The wireless POD module may also support other input standards without being outside the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

While not represented in wireless POD module may include an analog decoder such as an NTSC PAL SECAM decoder to decode analog channels. In such an arrangement input signals enter through a tuner and are decoded by the NTSC PAL SECAM decoder. The decoded video and audio streams are encoded to MPEG 2.

Information may be modulated into the Vertical Blanking Interval VBI of the analog TV signal in a number of standard ways. More specifically the North American Broadcast Teletext Standard NABTS may be used to modulate information onto lines 10 through 20 of an NTSC signal while the FCC mandates the use of line 21 for Closed Caption CC and Extended Data Services EDS . The wireless POD module may include a Vertical Blanking Interval VBI data decoder to extract VBI data which is transmitted along with analog broadcasts.

The wireless POD module of allows the host of to directly connect to the cable television network cable via an integrated coaxial cable connector and supporting circuitry . As illustrated in the digital tuner is connected to the digital demodulator which converts the input signals to digital signals or packets. Accordingly content which is supplied as a stream of modulated data e.g. a modulated multiplexed MPEG 2 data stream is input to the digital tuner . The digital tuner could be tuned to a particular channel by a user via the accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control of or by an application running on the wireless POD module e.g. recording scheduler . The tuned content may be provided to the digital demodulator . Digital demodulator may be a or quadrature amplitude modulation QAM demodulator or an ATSC 8 VSB demodulator and decoder. The tuned content is then provided from the digital demodulator to the CA decrypter . The decrypted data is then supplied to the transcoder if required which transforms the data into MPEG 2 media stream or other format .

The Media Switch then buffers the media stream into memory e.g. the hard disk drive and then performs two operations if the user is viewing live television. More specifically the media stream is simultaneously supplied to the CP Copy Protection encrypter to be transmitted to the host and is also written to the hard disk drive or other storage unit. The output of stored media to the host can manipulated using the accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control and the multimedia time warping system of the wireless POD module as previously described with reference to .

In some interactive television application systems television distribution facilities transmit data packets that contain information used by interactive applications. Some systems transmit these packets on an out of band frequency. As illustrated in the wireless POD module includes an OOB modem to receive and transmit OOB data from and to a cable provider s systems. The OOB modem can include a Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK transmitter and a receiver . The OOB data received via the cable system is transmitted to the OOB processing block of the Media Processing Module . The OOB block processes OOB data in the exact same way as when it is received from the host via the PCMCIA connector interface or any other similar interface. The OOB block also handles the transmission of OOB data to the cable system via the QPSK transmitter .

The wireless POD module can also receive digital content via one of its integrated RF interfaces process the digital content and transmit the processed content to the host to be output as described above.

In the present embodiment the wireless CableCARD can have at least two radio transceivers the 802.11 radio transceiver and the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver . The first radio transceiver is compliant with IEEE 802.11 and is used to perform wireless local area network WLAN interfacing. The second radio transceiver is compliant with BLUETOOTH and is used to directly interface a compatible remote control and other electronic devices with each other when in close proximity e.g. cellular phones PDAs video players music players etc. .

The 802.11 radio transceiver and the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver each includes a processor interface and media specific access control protocol MAC layer module and a digital to analog converter DAC and an analog to digital converter ADC and and a physical layer module PHY and respectively. To avoid interference between the 802.11 radio transceiver and the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver the MAC layer modules and of each radio transceiver may communicate with each other to avoid concurrent transmission and or reception of wireless transmissions with corresponding external devices if such concurrent transmission or reception would cause interference. The methods by which the MAC layer modules and communicate are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 387 249 filed on Mar. 12 2003 and incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Other methods to cooperatively transmit data between wireless interface devices could be incorporated into the wireless POD module while remaining within the scope and spirit of the present general inventive concept.

The 802.11 radio transceiver and the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver both include a host interface digital receiver processing module an ADC a filtering attenuation module an intermediate frequency IF mixing down conversion stage a receiver filter a low noise amplifier a transmitter receiver switch a local oscillation module memory a digital transmitter processing module a DAC a filtering gain module an IF mixing up conversion stage a power amplifier and a transmitter filter module. One possible radio transceiver design is specified in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 387 249 filed on Mar. 12 2003 and incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Other radio transceiver designs could be incorporated into the wireless POD module while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

In the present embodiment a transmitter receiver switch of the 802.11 radio transceiver and a transmitter receiver switch of the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver are coupled to separate antennas and respectively. A transmit path and a receive path of each transceiver shares the same antenna. In an alternate embodiment a separate antenna corresponding to a transmit path and a receive path of each transceiver may be incorporated. As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the antennas may be polarized directional and physically separated to provide a minimal amount of interference.

The 802.11 radio transceiver and BLUETOOTH radio transceiver interface with the Media Processing Module via processor interface and respectively. The processor interfaces and provide bidirectional communication between the Media Processing Module the 802.11 radio transceiver and the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver via GPIO General Purpose Input Output interfaces. For example media which is received via one either 802.11 radio transceiver or the BLUETOOTH radio transceiver e.g. inbound data is transmitted to the Media Processing Module via a GPIO port to process and route to an appropriate section.

The wireless POD module could support alternate RF communication protocols e.g. Ultra Wideband WiMedia Wireless USB Wireless 1394 WiMAX etc. while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept. The wireless POD module may additionally integrate one or more RF receivers such as radio receivers e.g. AM FM Shortwave Longwave HD weatherband and Digital Audio Broadcasting satellite radio receivers e.g. Digital Audio Radio Services such as XM and Sirius and television receivers e.g. ATSC UHF VHF . The wireless POD module may additionally integrate a datacast receiver in support of over the air content services. An example of a datacast receiver which may be integrated in the wireless POD module is the dNTSC receiver from Dotcast Inc. The dNTSC receiver may be integrated to enable a subscription based video service such as MovieBeam . Video and other programming content which is delivered over the air to a datacast receiver which is integrated in the wireless POD module is processed by the Media Processing Module and stored in the hard disk drive to be available to be viewed at a future time via the host or other device.

As illustrated in the wireless POD module also provides connectivity to a data network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet via an integrated Ethernet port and Ethernet module . In the present embodiment the Ethernet module is a fully integrated 10BASE T 100BASE TX 1000BASE T Ethernet media access control and physical layer transceiver. The Ethernet module combines a triple speed IEEE 802.3 compliant media access controller MAC PCI bus interfaces an on chip buffer memory and an integrated physical layer transceiver in a single chip.

The Ethernet module is fully compatible with the IEEE 802.3 standard for auto negotiation of speed. The Ethernet module includes a 10 100 1000 Mbps Ethernet MAC with full half duplex capability at all speeds and a 10 100 1000 copper PHY . The MAC supports the following 802.3 functions including VLAN tagging layer 2 priority encoding link aggregation and full duplex flow control.

The Ethernet module provides a PCI v2.2 bus interface and a large on chip buffer memory to allow a stand alone operation. Dual on chip high performance processors enable custom frame processing features including TCP segmentation.

The wireless POD module can receive digital content via an Ethernet interface process the digital content and transmit the digital content to the host of to be output. Content received in the Ethernet module is transmitted to the Media Processing Module via the interface . Digital content which is received by the Media Processing Module is processed in the same manner as content received via another interface of the wireless POD module as mentioned above. For example content e.g. IPTV which is received via the Ethernet interface may first need to be decrypted by CA decrypter and transcoded by transcoder before being simultaneously written to the integrated storage unit i.e. the hard disk drive and output to the host via the PCMCIA connector interface .

The wireless POD module illustrated in interfaces directly with the cable network of . As mentioned above the wireless POD module also includes the 802.11 RF interface the BLUETOOTH RF interface and the Ethernet interface . Any of the above interfaces could be used to connect to a data network and exchange data with the cable provider s systems. Such interfaces could be used to transmit orders user information requests corresponding to billing information requests corresponding to programming information etc. The requests orders and information may correspond to interactive televisions services and transactional electronic services such as ordering pay per view programs requesting video on demand programs subscribing to premium channels at home shopping providing feedback or any other suitable interactive or transactional service.

The above interfaces could also be used to receive programming content and other data from the cable provider or other content provider on the Internet e.g. YouTube Yahoo Apple iTunes Store etc. . The 802.11 RF interface and the Ethernet interface could also be used to connect with other electronic devices directly or over a data network such as LAN WAN or the Internet. The 802.11 RF interface and the Ethernet interface could also be used to transmit stored content or content being processed by the wireless POD module .

The wireless POD module could in an alternate embodiment incorporate a variety of other wired and wireless interfaces. For example the wireless POD module may incorporate in its recessed portion one or more proprietary connectors universal serial bus USB connectors IEEE 1394 connectors i.e. Firewire a small computer systems interface SCSI connector a serial connector a parallel connector RS232 connector optical connector powerline connector to access a data network over powerlines in accordance with HomePlug specifications etc.

The wireless POD module could additionally incorporate a variety of input output connectors for audio and video in its recessed portion. These include but are not limited to connectors such as HDMI video and audio component video analog audio and optical digital audio.

In another embodiment the wireless POD module may include an embedded cable on its outside edge which protrudes out of the card slot and contains all its supported connectors. An end of the embedded cable could additionally contain an infrared IR receiver and an IR blaster connector which could interface with an IR controller within the wireless POD module . The IR receiver may receive commands from a remote control and the IR blaster may transmit commands from the wireless POD module to the POD host or other equipment to which it may be interfaced.

In another embodiment the wireless POD module may integrate a cable modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem optical network terminal ONT RF base modem wireless access point router or other suitable controller to communicate via a communications network. Such communications circuitry would be entirely integrated within the wireless POD module .

The wireless POD module could further integrate a supplementary storage component to allow an insertion and removal of a secondary storage device such as a flash memory card microdrive secure digital SD memory card extreme digital xD card a floppy disk CD DVD etc.

In the present embodiment wireless POD module has the ability to communicate with the host to generate a graphical user interface GUI and related images on a display . The wireless POD module transmits display screen data that is received and processed by the host to display the images on the display . Wireless POD module may transmit the display screen data to the host in a variety of formats. For example the display screen data may be transmitted to the host as a stream of video e.g. MPEG 2 static images e.g. JPG or may use any suitable markup language e.g. Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Dynamic Hypertext Markup Language DHTML pages defined using the Extensible Markup Language XML JavaServer Pages JSP Active Server Pages ASP or any other suitable data formats.

As wireless POD module is designed to work with the current install base of televisions with CA slots e.g. CableCARD slots the transmission of data between the wireless POD module and the host may be limited to MPEG 2. To allow backward compatibility with existing televisions and other host devices the wireless POD module has the ability to receive and process content in a plurality of different formats including the formats mentioned above and can use the processed data to generate and transmit a video stream e.g. MPEG 2 to the host .

In addition the present general inventive concept allows the user to store selected media programming in the wireless POD module . The system also allows stored media assets to be transmitted to the host or to a media device which is connected to a data network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet.

In the present embodiment the operating system of the wireless POD module supports the core functionality of the device as described herein. In the present embodiment the operating system and software that may operate on the wireless POD module can receive updates automatically via a data network such as the Internet. The operating system of the wireless POD module may be stored in programmable logic of the processor or in the hard disk drive .

The operating system can support TCP UDP ICMP RARP ARP DNS DHCP NTP SNTP STUN HTTP and TFTP. Other protocols could also be supported. The operating system supports IPv4 and IPv6 network addressing.

The operating system of the wireless POD module may incorporate various auto configuration protocols and standards which can be employed to establish the wireless POD module on a data network. For example the wireless POD module may employ the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP to automatically obtain network settings and configuration parameters such as an Internet Protocol IP address netmask gateway address and DNS server address.

Bonjour may also be supported by the wireless POD module . Bonjour enables automatic discovery of computers devices and services on IP networks. Bonjour is an open protocol that Apple Computer Inc. Cupertino Calif. has submitted to the IETF as part of the ongoing standards creation process. The wireless POD module may additionally support the Universal Plug and Play UPnP standards Intel Networked Media Product Requirements NMPR and Digital Living Network Alliance DLNA guidelines.

The wireless POD module may employ such auto configuration protocols and standards to establish itself on the LAN and discover media player devices running a media server application software that allows digital content to be streamed to and from the wireless POD module .

The wireless POD module may also allow manual configuration of settings security keys and other parameters via a web browser operating on a computing device which is connected to a data network. An accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control can also be used in conjunction with the host s display to configure the wireless POD module .

The operating system of the wireless POD module or an application running thereon may enable other features including interactive program guide recording scheduler interactive television parental controls multimedia time shifting multimedia location shifting streaming of live content via the Internet voice over Internet Protocol VOIP video over Internet Protocol web browsing instant messaging e mail interactive shopping and video gaming.

In support of voice and video over IP the operating system of the wireless POD module incorporates an open standard call processing module based on SIP v2 Session Initiation Protocol version 2 RFC 3261 open standard which is interoperable with major SIP based call servers and other standard SIP based devices.

The call processing module may be configured to maintain an SIP registration with an SIP based call server on the service provider network. The call processing module may allow the SIP to be used to originate and terminate voice and video calls. According to the present embodiment wireless handset devices that enable two way communication can be configured to interoperate with the wireless POD module . These handset devices may communicate with the wireless POD module directly or through a wireless access point on the LAN using a common wireless standard e.g. 802.11n . Handsets may be configured to enable voice and or video communications. In another embodiment a USB based digital camera with an integrated microphone can be directly connected to a wireless POD module that has an integrated USB port to connect such devices. This USB camera and microphone unit can be mounted on top of the television to facilitate voice and video communication through the network connected wireless POD Module . According to the present general inventive concept incoming voice and video data received during a call is processed by the media processing module of the wireless POD module and is output to the host television in the manner previously described. The USB camera and microphone module in turn capture video and audio which are processed by the wireless POD module and transmitted to an SIP based call server or other SIP client via a network like the Internet. In support of these communication features the BLUETOOTH remote control which accompanies the wireless POD module may integrate specific call control buttons that allow the wireless POD module to answer or terminate communication sessions. Additionally the remote control may include buttons to dial E.164 numbers to perform conference calling and other operations.

The operating system of the wireless POD module supports voice signaling protocols SIP MGCP H.323 SDP RTP RTCP RFC 2833 X NSE Tone Events corresponding to SIP RTP and RFC 2833 AVT Tone Events corresponding to SIP RTP packetizing RTP Jitter Buffer voice processing echo cancellation voice compression DTMF etc. and reference hardware specific drivers corresponding to audio and or telephony devices . The operating system may additionally support fax communication and G.711 Fax Pass Through T.38 Real Time Fax Over IP T.38 using UDP and T.38 using RTP.

In an embodiment of the present general inventive concept the wireless POD module utilizes SIP to perform call signaling and supports numerous SIP extensions and methods. The wireless POD module supports essential routing features including Routing with Network Address Port Translation NAPT and support of Virtual Private Network pass through. The wireless POD module also offers STUN Simple Traversal of UDP Through NAT TURN Traversal Using Relay NAT RSIP Realm Specific IP and outbound proxy support for NAT traversal. Other NAT traversal techniques may also be supported by the unit as various new standards and technologies develop and are deployed. One such NAT traversal technique includes the Interactive Connectivity Establishment ICE developed by the IETF s MMUSIC working group. ICE provides a framework to unify the various NAT traversal techniques. This enables SIP based VOIP clients to successfully traverse the variety of firewalls that may exist between a remote user and a network.

The wireless POD module also prioritizes telephone calls over other Internet traffic to allow users to obtain clearer voice quality comparable to analog voice service over a circuit switched network. The wireless POD module may also offer rich CLASS features corresponding to enhanced telephony services such as call waiting three way calling caller ID etc. With respect to caller ID the wireless POD module can overlay caller ID data with television programming which is to be displayed through the host .

Currently VOIP service providers must maintain an interface to the circuit switched PSTN in order to route calls to and from other carriers. As all circuit switched traffic is likely to migrate to packet networks such as the Internet in the future the need to maintain a PSTN interface will likely be eliminated. In the future Electronic Numbering ENUM may be used to resolve a fully qualified E.164 telephone number corresponding to a particular wired or wireless device to a fully qualified domain name address using a DNS based architecture. ENUM RFC is the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF standard that defines a mechanism which uses the Domain Name Service DNS as a tool to discover services associated with a telephone number E.164 number .

In accordance with the present general inventive concept the operating system of the wireless POD module incorporates an ENUM engine and a built in DNS resolver. The ENUM engine is a standard compliant resolution tool developed based on IETF s RFC 3761. The ENUM engine provides the DNS message processing and network transport mechanisms required to translate a telephone number into a set of ENUM records. The ENUM engine supports DNSSEC and TSIG to address a variety of security issues. The ENUM engine automatically processes NAPTR record s in DNS wire format into application service order preference and URI fields. Additionally the ENUM engine correctly parses the NAPTR service fields and dynamically interprets POSIX Extended Regular Expressions. The ENUM engine can filter the results of the parsing and interpretation based on application protocol and or service type.

As an enabler of voice and video communication via the Internet the wireless POD module may have one or more E.164 phone numbers associated with it.

Users can connect to the wireless POD module over a data network such as the Internet to access the Interactive Program Guide and set recording schedules access media content stored in the integrated storage unit access live programming being processed by the wireless POD module etc. The wireless POD module provides users remote access to live programming being input to the device similar to functionality available with devices such as Slingbox from Sling Media Inc. or the LocationFree base station from Sony.

In accordance with the present embodiment of the present general inventive concept users can target and connect to a wireless POD module using a media player application or device that supports the ENUM protocol and provides a connection with a target device using an E.164 number. A method and system to access stored media assets in a storage device via the Internet using E.164 telephone numbers Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs and other address schemes is specified in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 205 639 filed by the Applicant and incorporated herein in its entirety. A method and system to access live programming via the Internet using E.164 telephone numbers URIs and other address schemes is specified in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 341 715 filed by the Applicant and incorporated herein in its entirety. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 341 715 also specifies methods of using multimedia time warping functionality over a data network which is also supported by the wireless POD module .

Other methods could be used to access the wireless POD module via a data network while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept. For example the wireless POD module can maintain a registration and open connection with a server which is connected to the Internet. When a user desires to connect to his wireless POD module the user may be required to login to the server using a valid username and password. Once the user is authenticated the user is connected to his wireless POD module via the open connection.

In the present embodiment video games may be downloaded from a service provider over a data network to the wireless POD module and run thereon. In another embodiment the operating system of the wireless POD module may provide features to a gaming terminal e.g. Microsoft Xbox 360 Sony PlayStation Nintendo GameCube personal computer etc. over a data network. The gaming terminal may provide for bi directional function calls between the operating system of the wireless POD module over a data network via an application programming interface API . The API may provide functions that for example allow the remote gaming terminal to access wireless POD module resources such as on screen display resources communications channel resources memory function resources controller resources and other resources. The operating system of the wireless POD module provides interoperability with wireless joysticks or other controller devices that may be included with gaming terminals as mentioned above. The wireless POD module may in turn receive control signals from such controller devices process the signals and transmit the processed signals to the respective gaming terminal via a data network.

The recessed portion of the wireless POD module has grooves at opposing sides thereof to allow users to easily remove the wireless POD module from the CA slot of the host when required.

The top panel of the recessed portion may bear the name and or logo of the wireless POD module manufacturer and or other information.

As illustrated in the digital tuner is connected to the digital demodulator which converts the input signals from the coaxial cable to digital signals or packets. Accordingly content supplied as a stream of modulated data e.g. a modulated multiplexed MPEG 2 data stream is input to an integrated tuner . The tuner could be tuned to a particular channel by the user via the accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control or by an application running on the wireless POD module e.g. recording scheduler . The tuned content may be provided to the digital demodulator . The digital demodulator may be a 64 or 256 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM demodulator or an ATSC 8 VSB demodulator and decoder. The content may then be provided to the CA decrypter . The decrypted data is then supplied to the transcoder if required which transforms the data into MPEG 2 media stream or other format .

The Media Switch of then buffers the media stream into memory and then performs two operations if the user is viewing live television. More specifically the media stream is simultaneously supplied to CP Copy Protection encrypter to encrypt the media stream and transmit the encrypted media stream to the host via the inband interface and is also written to the integrated hard disk drive or other storage unit. As mentioned earlier the wireless POD module may function as a digital video recorder DVR and may perform multimedia time warping and location shifting.

As illustrated in the wireless POD module includes an OOB modem to receive and transmit OOB data from and to the cable provider s systems. The OOB modem may include a QPSK transmitter and receiver . The OOB data received via the cable system can be transmitted to the OOB processing block of the Media Processing Module . The OOB block also handles the transmission of OOB data to the cable system via the OOB modem .

Stored media can be accessed using the multimedia time warping functionality of the wireless POD module . The multimedia time warping functionality uses the integrated digital storage unit i.e. the hard disk drive and operating software of the wireless POD module to allow users to view live programming with an option of instantly reviewing previous segments within the program. An accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control which is designed to operate with the wireless POD module can be used to manipulate the content during viewing. Command signals which originate from the remote control are accepted via the BLUETOOTH transceiver of the wireless POD module and are processed by the CPU . Commands which are transmitted by the BLUETOOTH remote control to the wireless POD module can affect a flow of the MPEG 2 media stream and allow the user to reverse fast forward play pause index fast slow reverse play and fast slow play live content.

Upon receiving a signal to access stored content the media switch extracts program material from the hard disk drive and reassembles it into an MPEG 2 media stream which is then sent to CP encrypter encrypts and transmits the encrypted MPEG 2 media stream to the host .

In addition the present general inventive concept allows the user to store select television programming in the hard disk drive of the wireless POD module while the user is simultaneously watching or reviewing another program. For example the user can use the interactive program guide IPG and recording scheduler of the wireless POD module to direct the wireless POD module to record specific programs on predetermined dates and times. The wireless POD module allows users to remotely access the Interactive Program Guide and recording scheduler. As illustrated in and as previously discussed the wireless POD module can connect to a data network via one of its wired or wireline interfaces. In turn users can utilize an Internet enabled cell phone PDA personal computer or other device to access the wireless POD module over a data network and set recording options.

As illustrated in the wireless POD module interfaces with an IEEE 802.11 wireless router . The wireless router enables connected devices on the LAN to exchange data with one another and access the Internet . Such connectivity allows the wireless POD module to receive transmit data from to other network connected devices over a data network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet.

In the present embodiment the wireless POD module can transmit service orders e.g. pay per view programming changes home shopping etc. and requests corresponding to information billing etc. to the cable provider via the Internet . The cable provider could fulfill these requests by transmitting information to the wireless POD module via the Internet using the same path the original request traversed or via the cable network .

The wireless POD module can receive content over the Internet from various content or service providers. In the present embodiment the Interactive Program Guide IPG made available by the wireless POD module through the host provides an option corresponding Internet Content . Selecting this option may further provide the user with an index of Internet content providers and a brief description of their respective programming options. This index may be automatically updated via the Internet at any possible frequency.

The user can select a content provider which offers a video on demand service. Upon selecting the content provider from a list of content providers using the remote control the wireless POD module establishes connectivity with a media switch of the content provider which subsequently authenticates the user and provides the user with access to an index of available videos which are stored in a content server of the content provider . The user can select a specific movie that he would like to view. Content corresponding to the selected movie is subsequently streamed from the media switch over the Internet to the user s router and wirelessly transmitted from the router to the wireless POD module to be output to the host .

Internet content which is received via one of the above mentioned transceivers of the wireless POD module is directed to the Media Processing Module . If the received content is encrypted according to the OpenCable specifications or other standards the content may be sent to the CA decrypter o be descrambled before being directed to the Media Processing Module .

Thereafter the content may need to be converted to another format if it is not compatible with the host . For example if an incoming media stream is in MPEG 4 H.264 AVC and the host can only process MPEG 2 transcoder will convert the media stream to an MPEG 2 media stream. Upon conversion the Media Switch buffers the media stream into memory and simultaneously performs two operations if the user is viewing and or listening to the incoming content which is being received via the Internet . More specifically the buffered media stream is supplied to CP encrypter to be returned to the host and it is also written to the hard disk drive or other storage device. The stored media can be used in conjunction with the multimedia time warping functionality of the wireless POD module to alter a user s viewing and or listening experience. Features of the remote control may be used as described earlier to manipulate the viewing and or listening experience of content which is received via the Internet .

Movies which are downloaded from a video on demand provider and stored in the hard disk drive of the wireless POD module may expire within a certain time period as specified by the provider. The wireless POD module is configured to adhere to such expiration parameters which are embedded in the content and will automatically purge the content from the hard disk drive when the expiration date and time are reached. Movies and other content downloaded from content providers via the Internet may also impose copy restrictions and other digital rights management DRM requirements which can also be enforced by the wireless POD module .

As further illustrated in a personal computer interfaces with the wireless router via an Ethernet cable. The personal computer may be running any operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft Windows Vista Apple OS X etc. The computer serves as a central repository to store the user s digital content including movies TV shows photos and music. A media server application installed and operating on the computer works in conjunction with the wireless POD module and accompanying remote control described herein. The media server application may be downloaded on the computer via the Internet installed from a storage medium such as a CD or diskette or may come pre loaded on the computer from the manufacturer.

The wireless POD module can detect and establish connectivity with the media server application operating on a LAN connected personal computer such as the computer or other compatible media device. The media server application indexes user selected media assets which are stored on the personal computer and makes the index available to the wireless POD module to be displayed through the host . The media server application is further designed to transmit user requested media content to the wireless POD module to be output via the host . The user can navigate the media index using the remote control and can make a specific content selection using appropriate keys.

In another embodiment the media server application described herein could be integrated into available operating systems e.g. Microsoft s Windows XP Media Center Edition Microsoft s Windows Vista Apple s OS X etc. or existing software applications that function as media players e.g. Apple Computer s Front Row Apple Computer s iTunes Apple Computer s QuickTime Microsoft s Windows Media Player RealNetwork s RealPlayer etc. while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

The media server application allows separate user profiles to be created thereby facilitating personalized access by individual users to their content stored on the computer through the wireless POD module .

In addition the wireless POD module can detect multiple computers on the LAN with the media server application operating thereon. If multiple computers are detected the wireless POD module may generate a list of computers to choose from to be selected by the user. The list of computers is presented in a graphical user interface output via the display of the host . The user can utilize the remote control to make the appropriate selection and initiate connectivity with the user s personal computer which runs the media server application thereon. Upon establishing connectivity with the personal computer as it is running the media server application a user may be prompted to input a username password PIN or some other personal security key to be granted access to their media library. Such security keys can be configured in the media server application and are authenticated when connectivity is established.

As the network connected personal computer may reside in another location within the user s home the user can make use of the BLUETOOTH remote control that accompanies the wireless POD module to select specific media assets stored on the computer to view and or listen through the host .

The media server application can receive and process signals transmitted by the BLUETOOTH remote control through the wireless POD module . The BLUETOOTH remote control may be used to initially signal the wireless POD module to establish connectivity with the media server application which operates on the computer . According to the present embodiment a designated button on the remote control is available to initiate connectivity with the personal computer which is running the media server application. When the button is pressed on the remote control a corresponding signal is transmitted from the remote s BLUETOOTH radio to the wireless POD module . The signal is received via the BLUETOOTH antenna and the BLUETOOTH transceiver of the wireless POD module and is forwarded to the CPU . The CPU processes the signal and initiates application layer connectivity with the computer which is running the media server application via the 802.11 transceiver . Certain control signals which are transmitted by the BLUETOOTH remote control are received by the wireless POD module in the same way as described above processed by the CPU and transmitted to the personal computer which is running the media server application via the 802.11 interface. According to another embodiment the wireless POD module could also connect to the LAN via the Ethernet interface in which case the processed control signal would be transmitted via the integrated Ethernet transceiver .

After the wireless POD module establishes application layer connectivity with the computer which runs the media server application a graphical user interface GUI is presented to the user on the television display . The media server application makes available an index of available content categories e.g. Movies TV Shows Photos Music etc. which are presented to the user via the GUI. The operating system of the wireless POD module the media server application which runs on the computer or a combination thereof may drive elements of the GUI presented to the user on the television display .

The user can utilize designated buttons on the remote control to navigate menu options. Within content categories and related submenus the user can further select specific media assets stored on the computer to view and or listen via the host .

The remote control can also be used to adjust the viewing listening experience by using designated keys on the remote control such as play stop pause rewind fast forward etc. These and other buttons on the remote control can be used to issue various commands to the computer with the media server application operating thereon. The media server application receives and processes the signals according to their intended function. For example buttons on the remote control can allow a series of digital images to be cycled forward or backward music to be played paused etc.

Content which is requested by the user is transmitted by the media server application which operates on the personal computer to the wireless POD module . The content can be received via the 802.11 antenna and the 802.11 transceiver of the wireless POD module and is therein transferred to the Media Processing Module . The received content may be transcoded by transcoder into a format compatible with the host .

The content is subsequently transferred to the CP encrypter be processed and is further transmitted to the host via the inband interface to be output via the display and the speakers .

In another embodiment content which is stored on the personal computer and requested by the user as earlier described may be transcoded by the media server application into a format that is compatible with the host before being transmitted to the wireless POD module . The present embodiment assumes that the wireless POD module can capture all media processing capabilities of the host and can further transmit the information corresponding the media processing capabilities of the host to the media server application upon initial connectivity in order to allow the media server application to subsequently transcode requested content to a format that is compatible with the host .

In yet another embodiment the media server application which operates on the personal computer allows users to activate a synchronization feature that works in conjunction with the wireless POD module . The synchronization feature when activated allows the media server application to automatically copy data which is stored on the personal computer such as movies TV shows music photos and other content across a user s home network and onto the hard disk drive of the wireless POD module . This allows users to directly access the content from the wireless POD module thereby providing an enhanced viewing and or listening experience since the accessed content is not being streamed over a data network.

The wireless POD module also comes with its own synchronization feature whereby content stored in its hard disk drive can be automatically copied across a network and onto the hard disk drive of a personal computer or other network connected device running the media server application specified herein.

The synchronization feature contained in the media server application and the wireless POD module both allow users to set their own preferences as to what types of content is automatically copied to target devices e.g. unwatched TV shows new purchases etc. .

In the present embodiment the remote control includes a BLUETOOTH radio and an infrared emitter. The remote control can be programmed to function as a universal remote which allows the user to control other electronic devices with infrared or BLUETOOTH receivers. For example the remote control may be programmed to control the host itself. The accompanying remote control or keyboard device may use other wireless communication options to communicate with the wireless POD module while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

In the present embodiment of the present general inventive concept the remote control integrates Radio Frequency Identification RFID technology. More specifically the remote control may include an RFID Module that can function as both an RFID tag and an RFID reader. The RFID Module can read an RFID tag and can write data to a particular RFID tag.

According to the present embodiment the RFID Module allows interoperability with all RF 13.56 MHz readers and tags which are compatible with existing international standards including ISO 14443 A B ISO 15693 Sony FeliCa and Near Field Communication NFC . NFC technology can be used as a virtual connector system to quickly and securely establish wireless connectivity between the wireless POD module and other electronic devices. Near Field Communication NFC technology which was jointly developed and promoted by Philips and Sony evolved from a combination of contact less identification and interconnection technologies. Underlying layers of NFC technology are standardized in ISO 18092 and 21481 ECMA and and ETSI TS 102 190. Other RFID standards could be supported by the RFID Module while remaining within the scope and spirit of the present general inventive concept.

The RFID Module is provided to allow the remote control to rapidly exchange information with an electronic device that is in close proximity to the remote control and which also has integrated RFID technology. Information which is exchanged between the remote control and an initiating device via RFID can allow for the fast automatic and secure set up of Wi Fi BLUETOOTH and other wireless connections between the wireless POD module and the initiating electronic device in accordance with the NFC specifications. These specifications allow RFID technology to be employed as a virtual connector system. According to the present embodiment data received by the remote control from the initiating device via RFID is automatically transmitted to the wireless POD module via one of its wireless interfaces in order to facilitate an automatic setup of a wireless connection between the wireless POD module and the initiating device using a common wireless standard.

In accordance with the present general inventive concept the wireless POD module also integrates teachings and methods outlined in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 127 979 filed by the applicant of this general inventive concept and incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. The teachings and methods in the referenced Patent Application specify techniques to capture a media processing capability and other parameters of a target device via RFID using RFID to quickly establish a wireless connection with a target device and automatically transmitting certain media assets to it once connectivity has been established and establishment and use of profiles corresponding to target devices that have previously exchanged communication settings and parameters via RFID. Such functionality could be used to allow a media player e.g. cellular phone video player etc. with an integrated RFID module to quickly establish a communication link with the wireless POD module and automatically transmit certain media assets to it once connectivity has been established. The method includes in the present embodiment automatically transmitting media that is being viewed played on the media player at the time of an RFID exchange with its remote control or an accompanying keyboard. Media content to be transmitted to the wireless POD module would be automatically processed and output to the host e.g. TV as described herein. The user can in turn use the controls e.g. play pause fast forward rewind stop skip back skip forward etc. on the transmitting media player device or software operating therein to alter the viewing and or listening experience of the media being output via the host .

In accordance with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 127 979 filed by the applicant a registration of electronic devices via RFID and establishment of profiles to connect devices within the wireless POD module can be used to securely register wireless VOIP handsets. An initial exchange of encryption data and other parameters via RFID allows the VOIP handsets to securely communicate with the wireless POD module on an ongoing basis.

The RFID Module in the remote control can also be used to facilitate electronic payments via a data network such as the Internet by capturing account data from credit cards e.g. MasterCard Paypass American Express ExpressPay etc. fobs cellular phones and other payment devices that have integrated RFID chips. The RFID Module can also be used to facilitate user authentication over a data network such as the Internet by capturing identification data from identification devices with integrated RFID chips e.g. loyalty cards membership cards ID cards cellular phones etc. and transmitting the identification data to a server. The RFID module may be used to authenticate users within the wireless POD module itself allowing users to securely access their profile within the identification device. The wireless POD module may come with RFID tokens that can be assigned to individual users or can allow other RFID based devices to be registered and linked to user profiles within a system using the remote control .

In another embodiment a wireless media player e.g. a cellular phone Apple iPod type device Microsoft Zune etc. can establish BLUETOOTH connectivity with the wireless POD module and can stream stored content e.g. video photos music etc. to the wireless POC module to be output via the host . In the present embodiment the user has the option of using controls on the media player to adjust the viewing and or listening experience of content being output through the host . For example the user can use the media player s hardware controls or soft keys to pause play rewind or fast forward video being displayed via the host . While the example herein illustrates the wireless media player connected to the wireless POD module via BLUETOOTH any common wireless standard could be used to establish direct communication while remaining within the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept.

Media which is received by the wireless POD module from the host via the inband port is processed in a similar manner as content received via one of the wireless or wired interfaces of the POD module as described above. According to the present embodiment the host receives content via its communications link e.g. cable network cable . For example MPEG 4 H.264 AVC format video data may be received at the tuner from the cable and demodulated at the demodulator . The demodulated MPEG 4 H.264 AVC data is provided to the CA decrypter of the wireless POD module via the inband port as previously described. The decrypted MPEG 4 H.264 AVC data is further supplied to the transcoder if required. For example if the host cannot process the MPEG 4 H.264 AVC data then the content may be transcoded by the transcoder to a format that is compatible with the host . In this manner the wireless POD module produces output that is compatible with the MPEG decoder which present in the host without necessitating modification of the host device . The output from the transcoder can be in the form of MPEG 2 data which is directed to the Media Switch . The Media Switch buffers the media stream into memory and simultaneously performs two operations if the user is viewing and or listening to the incoming content being received from the host . More specifically the buffered stream is supplied to CP encrypter to be returned to the host and the buffered stream is also written to the hard disk drive or other storage unit. The stored media can be used in conjunction with the multimedia time warping functionality of the wireless POD module to alter the viewing and or listening experience of the user. The accompanying BLUETOOTH remote control can be used as previously described to instantly review previous segments within the program that is being watched live. As also mentioned before the present general inventive concept allows a user to store selected television programming in the wireless POD module while the user is simultaneously watching or reviewing another program.

After media streams are transcoded in operation the MPEG stream is sent to the Media Switch . In operation the Media Switch buffers the MPEG stream into memory e.g. the hard disk drive . The Media Switch then performs two operations simultaneously if the user is viewing real time programming through the host television . These simultaneous operations are represented in under Branch A and Branch B of the flow diagram. Under Branch A in operation data is encrypted by the media switch before it is written to the hard disk drive . A purpose of encrypting programming content before it is stored is to ensure that the content cannot be accessed and copied by computer pirates or computer hackers that attempt to take apart the wireless POD module in order to access media stored in the integrated storage unit. The data may be encrypted using any number of cryptographic algorithms such as DES 3DES AES RC4 SHA 1 RSA DSA etc. Each wireless POD module may be able to generate its own encryption decryption keys which may be stored in a tamper proof storage component of the device. After the data has been encrypted the Media Switch parses the resulting MPEG stream and separates it into video and audio components. It then stores the components into temporary buffers. Events are recorded that indicate the type of component that has been found where it is located and when it occurred. The program logic is notified that an event has occurred and the data is extracted from the buffers. The video and audio components are written to the hard disk drive or other storage component in operation . As mentioned earlier stored media can be accessed using the remote control and multimedia time warping functionality of the wireless POD module .

The operations under Branch B are performed concurrently with the operations Under Branch A . In operation the stream of data is also supplied to CP encrypter to be encrypted. Once the data is encrypted the data is transmitted to the host in operation . The wireless POD module can transmit processed content to devices other than the host . For example the wireless POD module may transmit programming content to a network connected device on a LAN WAN or the Internet via its wireless or wired interface. Accordingly the transmitted content would be encrypted in operation using encryption keys that were previously exchanged with the target device to a location where the content is being transmitted.

In the process illustrated in the media which is written to the hard disk is in the same format as the media that is transmitted to the host . In another embodiment the input media stream could be transcoded to one format to be stored and another format to be transmitted to the host . In accordance with this embodiment when the stored media is retrieved from the hard disk to be output to the host the media could be transcoded to a format that is compatible with the host prior to transmission. This process is further detailed in .

With IPTV a subscriber may perceive that he is tuning to a particular channel number but what happens when he selects a channel is much different with IPTV than with broadcast TV. When a user tunes an IPTV program he does one of two things depending on whether the channel he is tuning is multicast the IP equivalent of broadcast sent to all subscribers simultaneously or unicast sent only to the one subscriber . If the signal is multicast the wireless POD module requests a copy of the multicast stream which must be found in the network and supplied to this wireless POD module . If the signal unicast the stream is requested from the headend .

After the signal arrives at the wireless POD module the IP transport protocols are stripped leaving the encrypted MPEG transport stream. The process continues with operation where the content is supplied to CP decrypter to be decrypted. The remaining operations which are illustrated in remain in the same.

Many variations of the process illustrated in will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the present general inventive concept.

In operation an appropriate signal to initiate access to stored content is received by the BLUETOOTH antenna and the transceiver of the wireless POD module . The signal is processed by the CPU which notifies the Media Switch to extract stored data from the hard disk drive . In operation the extracted video and audio components are decrypted. As illustrated in the data is encrypted prior to being written to the hard disk drive .

In operation decrypted video and audio components are reassembled by the Media Switch into an MPEG stream. The MPEG stream is then sent to the transcoder and the data is transcoded into a format that can be processed by the host in operation . The transcoding operation is only necessary if the stored content is in a format that is not compatible with the host .

In operation the transcoded data is sent to the CP encrypter to be encrypted. After the data is copy protected the data is transmitted to the host via the inband interface in operation .

In the present embodiment access to the stored content is initiated by the BLUETOOTH remote control and the stored content is subsequently transmitted to the host to be output. The process outlined in could also apply in situations where a network connected media player device connects to the wireless POD module and issues a signal to access stored content and then the stored content is subsequently transmitted from the wireless POD module to the initiating device over a data network.

Many variations of this process will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the present general inventive concept.

Upon establishing connectivity with the media server application on the PC the user can be presented with a list of media categories and sub categories e.g. movies photos music etc. from which to choose. The user can utilize the accompanying remote control to navigate the user interface menu options and further select specific media items stored on the personal computer to view and or listen via the host e.g. television . The user may navigate through the various categories and sub categories and in operation the user may make a selection once the desired media category item is found.

Upon selecting the desired media item s to be accessed the media server application operating on the personal computer begins streaming the selected media assets to the wireless POD module . In operation the wireless POD module begins receiving the media assets via the 802.11 interface of .

In accordance with the present embodiment certain media assets which are transmitted by the media server application may be encrypted. For example the media asset may be a movie downloaded from the user s cable provider. The movie may be encrypted to only allow the movie to be played on the computer running a version of the media server application that is registered with the cable provider or through a television where the movie is first decrypted by a registered wireless POD module . Operation may be required to decrypt such media content when it is received. The content may be decrypted by the CA decrypter .

When the received content cannot be processed by the host because the content is in an incompatible format the data is transcoded in operation by transcoder . Once the data is transcoded the data is passed to CP encrypter where it is copy protected in operation . Finally in operation the data is transmitted by the wireless POD module to the host via the inband port. The data can then be output via the television s e.g. the host display and speakers .

The remote control can be used to manipulate the incoming media stream from the media server application on the personal computer . For example designated buttons on the remote control can be used to stop play rewind fast forward and perform other operations. Such control signals are transmitted from the remote control to the wireless POD module processed by the wireless POD module and transmitted via the data network to the media server application on the personal computer .

A similar process to the process illustrated in also applies to an instance when content is received from a network connected media player device such as a cellular phone PDA video player etc. Accordingly connectivity is established between the media player and the wireless POD module . Upon establishing connectivity the user can use the controls of the media player to transmit select content to the wireless POD module to output the content via the host . The content is received by the wireless POD module in operation and similarly processed from there. The user can utilize the hardware or software controls of the media player device to adjust the media stream being output through the host .

The foregoing disclosure of the preferred embodiments of the present general inventive concept has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the general inventive concept to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the invention is to be defined only by the claims and by their equivalents. Although a few embodiments of the present general inventive concept have been shown and described it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the general inventive concept the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

