---

title: Media delivery platform
abstract: A method of delivering an audio and/or visual media file including, for example, one or more of full or partial master recordings of songs, musical compositions, ringtones, videos, films, television shows, personal recordings, animation and combinations thereof, over the air wirelessly, from one or more servers to an electronic device with or without an Internet connection, said method comprising transmitting and audio and/or visual media file in compressed format to said electronic device, and wherein the electronic device is effective to receive said audio and/or visual file and playback said audio and/or visual content on demand by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892465&OS=08892465&RS=08892465
owner: SKKY Incorporated
number: 08892465
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140611
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 322 615 filed Feb. 4 2009 which in turn is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 183 756 filed Jun. 26 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 548 875 issued Jun. 16 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 301 681 filed on Jun. 27 2001 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 303 115 filed on Jul. 3 2001 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 312 450 filed on Aug. 14 2001 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 343 159 filed Oct. 26 2001 each of which is hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to a method of delivery and play back of sound and image files for wireless and non wireless electronic devices.

The general concept for delivery of sound recordings or clips and visual recordings or clips by way of the Internet is known and described in various U.S. patent applications. See Bernard et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 918 213 Kaplan U.S. Pat. No. 5 963 916 Barbara U.S. Pat. No. 5 926 789 and Doerr et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 949 411. Such methods are typically used to sell products to consumers. For example a web page from Amazon.com allows a user to listen to samples of music for before purchasing compact discs CD s by mail.

Also cell phones may be programmed to ring with a tune of a song or musical composition and have become increasingly popular. However cellular phones currently on the market can only be either programmed to only play music such as conventional MP3 type phones or to deliver ring tones with an electronic chime or ring tone rather than an actual recorded song human voice or musical composition. Additionally these ring tones must be factory installed in the telephone or the delivery methods just directly interface with the Internet and require the consumer to be on line to access and download a particular mechanical ring tone.

At the same time various methods have been developed and are being used to enable a phone user to make more effective use of the variety of telephone service now available. For example caller ID function is one such feature which allows the recipient of an incoming call to identify the caller based on textual information provided on a telephone display panel. A patent to Borland U.S. Pat. No. 6 178 230 discloses an improved telephone system and method that determines the identity of the person being called for a telephone having more than one user and can identify the person being called by sounding a distinctive ring associated with the person being called. A mechanical ring tone is played depending upon the caller ID signal received to orally alert the telephone user as to who is calling without reading the telephone s display panel.

The present invention provides an improved method for delivery and play back of sound and image files which include songs musical compositions and other sound recordings cartoons movies television shows or any other type of performance which may be copyright registered as well as non copyright registered personal recordings e.g. personal sound recordings family photos home movies etc. . This new method includes the use of sound and or image clips which can be snippets or full files as alerts for a variety of electronic devices or for playing on a handheld device. A collection or library of uniquely selected and or edited clips may also be provided to the consumer in a manner far more conveniently on conventional telephone equipment than previously available.

The method provides the consumer with a unique way of accessing and browsing through selectable files which may be Internet based or independent of the Internet. Additionally the unique delivery method provides a seller or service provider with a convenient and more efficient way of promoting and selling entire sound and image files which include downloadable music movies films shows and items such as records cassette tapes CDs videos and DVDs.

Algorithms are provided for the delivery storage and playback of the sound files including a delivery method algorithm a parametric optimization and compression algorithm and an error correction algorithm.

According to one embodiment sound files are accessed by a cellular or landline telephone for allowing the consumer to browse download hear and or purchase sound files or use sound files including sound clips as ringer sounds. In contrast to the conventional ring tones or musical chimes used to ring cellular phones currently on the market the current invention provides a method for ringing cellular phones both analogue and digital and landline telephones with real sound recordings including real music which may be songs lifted from copyright registered CD tracks and may comprise human voice various instrument sounds and other sound effects of a high quality. Instead of simply tones being played the higher fidelity musical composition can be played by the telephone or other handset with a degree of fidelity previously unavailable using conventional methods. The high degree of fidelity is achieved using data compression error correction and parametric optimization algorithms adaptable to conventional telephones and other handheld devices.

A software based system for encoding the hardware of existing cellular phones at the time of manufacturing with delivery storage and playback capabilities in accordance with the present invention is provided such that additional hardware is not required. Only a suitable speaker need be required with most telephones already possessing the necessary quality of speaker. The ability to provide this technology without the need for extra hardware is very significant particularly to the cellular phone industry as it is especially desirable to make cellular phones as lightweight and as small as possible and at the lowest cost.

An accessory attachment to standard telephones can however be incorporated to implement the delivery storage and playback capabilities of the present invention to existing landline and cellular telephones which have not been encoded at the time of their manufacture if necessary. Such accessory attachments are compatible with existing telephones and may be sold separately. Also a micro chip may be embedded in landline telephones for providing the telephone with browsing delivery storage and playback capabilities of the present invention.

The accessory attachment or telephone encoded with software and or including hardware for providing delivery storage and playback capabilities as described herein may be manufactured with embedded sound files including sound clips such that a user can immediately play back the files including use the files as ringer sounds without having to first download any files.

Additionally upon hearing a sound clip on the telephone a user may choose to download the entire unedited sound file for a fee or purchase an item associated with the sound clip e.g. record cassette tape CD video or DVD by pressing a designated button on the accessory attachment or keys on the telephone keypad. As such sound clips which have been downloaded to or preprogrammed on a cell phone may encourage and stimulate the sale of downloadable files and or items associated with the clips by allowing the user to make an impulsive purchase immediately upon hearing the clips.

The accessing of sound and or image files by other electronic devices such as home phones computers pagers doorbells alarms palm pilots watches clocks PDAs etc. for either allowing the consumer to browse download hear view and or purchase sound recordings image files or associated items or to use sound and or image clips as alerts is also part of the invention and not limited to solely telephones. New electronic devices whose independent purpose is to allow the user to browse receive store and play sound and image files including clips according to the present invention are also described.

A security feature may be included on such electronic devices adapted for allowing a consumer to access and use sound and image files according to the present invention. This feature is designed to prevent intellectual property abuse by consumers unauthorized dissemination and reproduction of copyright protected material. The downloaded chips or recordings are coded and cannot be downloadable or transferred to units other than the consumers pre selected layer or telephone.

Also a tracking feature for keeping a record of every song downloaded and or each time a song is played can be incorporated for providing performing rights organizations or songwriters organizations with an accurate method for determining royalty payments to writers and performers of music.

Additionally a website suitable for viewing and selecting downloading sound and or image clips or entire files may be used for giving the consumer and music or image seller a unique way of transacting the sale of such files or other associated items such as records cassette tapes CD s videos or DVD s. The website may allow the clips to be stored on a user s computer providing the user the ability to readily access the clips for downloading the clips to an electronic devise using the clips as computer alerts or playing the clips on the computer. The user may also purchase files or items associated with the clips through the computer and or website.

The system of the present invention may also allow the consumer to browse through hundreds or thousands of sound and or image clips and or files for the purpose of downloading to electronic devices with an option to purchase an associated record cassette tape CD video or DVD or download the full unclipped sound and or image file.

Furthermore the delivery of files including clips is not limited to web based applications. Unlike conventional methods which require computer plug in devices for delivering and transferring digital music the current invention may use a delivery method which allows the user to browse download and listen to or watch sound or image files without the need for hand wired plug in devices or a computer connection to the Internet.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present invention may be constructed and or utilized. The description sets forth the functions and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the invention in connection with the illustrated embodiments. However it is to be understood that the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention uses a unique method for delivery storage and play back of sound and image files which include songs musical compositions or other sound recordings cartoons movies television shows or any other type of performance as well as personal clips e.g. personal sound recordings family photos home movies etc. . This method includes the use of sound and or image clips as alerts for a variety of electronic equipment and provides the consumer with a unique way of accessing these files which may be Internet based or independent of the Internet.

The present invention may include a number of modules for an overall system of delivery of music and audio visual files. These modules include a server of the files accessible by way of a specialized website for viewing selecting sampling and downloading selected files or portions thereof or directly accessible without going through a website. A telephone be it conventional cell phone or other hand held device with access to a communication network can access the server either directly or through the website. Special algorithms allow the transfer of the files to the handset providing the high gravity recording in a file formal which allows for tracking and security against unauthorized reproduction. The individual elements of the invention are unique as well as the overall system of delivery tracking and security. Described below are more detail aspects of the invention and its use.

According to one embodiment the system allows for sound and or image clips which are snippets of a musical and or visual performance piece to be used for sound and or image alerts in electronic devices. A library or collection of uniquely edited clips may be provided to the consumer for browsing and selecting files to be stored on the electronic device. The consumer may also use home made personal clips e.g. personal sound recordings family photos home movies etc. .

The sound and or image clips may be lifted from CD s movies TV shows and the like and are actual recordings which may include human voice instrument sound and other sound effects rather than mere electronic chimes or tones as those produced by conventional cellular phones. Electronic devices which may utilize sound and or image clips as alerts include but are not limited to cellular phones land line phones computers clocks watches pagers door bells car alarms palm pilots and personal calendars. It should be understood that although using clips for alerts is preferable full unedited files may also be used.

According to one embodiment real music sound clips are used to ring a cellular or home phone. A clip or series of clips which the user can select are played instead of the conventional electronic chime or ring tone. Such a system may be implemented on conventional cellular phones which may be analogue or digital by downloading firmwear comprising algorithms for delivery storage and playback of the sound files to the RAM element of the phone. Such algorithms include a delivery method algorithm a parametric optimization and compression algorithm and an error correction algorithm. Alternatively an accessory unit that attaches to the cellular phone for implementing the system of the present invention may be provided.

According to another embodiment sound and or image clips are used for computer alerts such as e mail notification sounds. Clips may also be used to ring a doorbell. Sound clips may further be used by a clock or watch to sound at the beginning of each hour similar to a grandfather clock wherein a different sound clip may be played at each hour.

The present invention allows the user to store hundreds of different alert clips on a device. Unlike conventional electronic equipment which hold a limited number of selectable alerts such as a conventional car alarm or music player alarm clock the present invention allows the user to choose from an unlimited number of clip files including allowing the user to create his own alert clips or to choose from a library of uniquely selected and or edited files including samples taken from CD s movies television shows and the like.

A cellular phone or similar device having a processor RAM and flash elements may be integrated with software at the time of manufacturing for implementing the system of the present invention. Alternatively a chip may be embedded into the device or an accessory unit including a speaker which attached to the device for implementing the system of the present invention may be provided. The accessory unit may have an adapter connection to the device. Such accessory unit may be sold with several adapter outlets to enable it to fit onto a variety of different electronic devices.

Sound and or image clips may be pre stored on the electronic device or accessory unit at the time of manufacturing such that the consumer may be able to used the clips for alerts without first having to select and download clips.

A user of an electronic device according to the present invention may download and store a number of clips off of a website via a plug in connection of the device to the computer or via a wireless network system such as the Apples Airport. Additionally a non Internet based holding system which may be especially adapted for delivering clips to the electronic device or accessory unit may also be provided. Such holding system may be accessed via a phone dial in connection wherein a user may interact with the holding system by using the phone keypads or voice commands. Other controls for interacting with the holding system such as control buttons voice commands or text keypads may be provided on the accessory unit or the electronic device itself which may be especially adapted for interacting with such holding system. The accessory unit or electronic device itself may also be sold preprogrammed with embedded clips for demonstration use.

Additionally such electronic devices may be capable of receiving or sending clips directly from one device to another device. To prevent transferring of entire files from one device to another a security feature may be included on the devices and work in conjunction with the file.

One method of preventing the transferring of files is to encode each electronic device or accessory unit with unique scrambling unscrambling wave capabilities. As such when a user transfers an entire me to his device say a cellular phone for which he pays a fee a scrambling wave which may be a function of his unique telephone number may be encrypted in the file. Upon playing the file the user s cellular phone sends the corresponding unscrambling opposite wave. Other devices purchased by the same user may also include the unique scrambling unscrambling wave encryption capabilities associated with the user s telephone number. As such the files may only be played with clarity on the device or devices owned by the user even if such files are transferred to other devices.

The security lock mechanism allows the original music or its representative to control distribution of music and also provides an opportunity for music distributors to keep track of who plays their music. As such a method of accounting for royalty payments to artists and performers and other parties registered with performing rights organizations such as ASCAP and BMI may include providing a tracking feature on electronic devices used by businesses such as bars restaurants and clubs to play music. In addition to allowing a record to be kept as to which music files have been downloaded and stored on the electronic device the tracking feature may also record information on how many times and when each song has been played. This allows performing rights or music writers organizations the ability to keep an accurate record on which to base royalty payment distributions.

An electronic device having stored sound or image clips may include various features which allow the user to preprogram the clips to play in a set sequence or a random order. For example certain clips which may be from the same or different songs may play in a congruous or back to back order with a fixed silence time between the clips. Additionally the device may have features allowing the user to classify and arrange the clips based on categories such as the type of clip i.e. movie song etc. artist name time period etc.

Thus a user of an electronic device utilizing the clips according to the present invention will be able to arrange the clips either through a website from which the clips can be downloaded onto the device or through the device itself.

Additionally after listening to or viewing a clip the user can choose to download the entire file from where the clip originated i.e. the entire movie song etc. . The server providing the clips and the files may provide the clips for free or for a small fee as inducement for the consumer to ultimately download the entire file for which a greater fee may be charged.

An electronic device according to the present invention may also have the ability to receive clips which are directly transmitted onto the electronic device via audio or visual broadcasts. The user of an electronic device may program the device to sound a specified broadcast as an alert sound. For example a sound segment from a live radio show i.e. a sports show or a commercial may be used to ring a cellular phone by either the caller or the callee.

Advertisements may also be transmitted through the electronic devices according to the present invention. A message such as pick up the phone and don t forget to drink Coca Cola may be used to alert of an incoming call. Such transmitted advertising messages need not necessarily function as alerts.

Additionally this invention contemplates the use of image and sound clips which can be combined such that the user can create a unique clip of both sound and image for use in electronic devices having display screens. For example a phone having an appropriate display screen can be preprogrammed to display a visual clip of a caller accompanied by sound or a computer alert may display an image clip with sound. An image clip may comprise a single image frame or a picture clip as well as an animation.

Website to be Used as a Support Tool for Downloading Clips to Electronic Devices and Method for Selling

According to a preferred embodiment a website for downloading sound and or image clips holds a library of clips each clip having a specific identifying code or icon which may include for example the title of a musical composition or movie from where the clip originated the name of the artist a code number or other type of identification depending on the type of clip. For example a song clip may be listed as barrywhite lovestuff.wav or may display the picture of the song artist or CD cover of the CD on which the song appears along with the name of the song. The list may be organized according to the artist s name by music classification i.e. pop jazz R B hip hop etc. by length of the sound clip by the type of sound clip i.e. song piano music guitar music loud quiet etc. or any combination of these categories or other conventional categories depending on the type of clip image or sound . The website may also include categories of longer clips which may be more suitable for phone rings and shorter clips which may be more suitable for computer alerts. The website may further contain a suggested list of weekly or daily favorite clip picks which may be provided for each category or subcategory. Additionally items or subcategories in a given category may be organized alphabetically by year of copyright or any other conventional order.

Tables 1 and 2 are examples of possible arrangements for sound clips using music classification and artist name. Note that the listings of Table 1 such as barrywhite lovestuff.wav are not websites but use symbols associated with web use such symbols being one of the many arbitrary ways of listing the clips. The symbol driven website like listings may end with other non domain suffixes such as .pop .song etc.

Additionally this invention contemplates the use of website hyperlinks associated with each listing as shown below in Tables 1 and 2.

The clips may also have an identifying number associated with each clip. Such identifying numbers may be used in downloading the clips to an electronic device using a telephone described below or other device having a number keypad. The website may further include a virtual personal locker or storage area for storing a selection of clips personal to a user which can be accessed on the website by a unique user identification name or code. As such a user can store clips for later purchasing downloading to the user s cellular phone playing etc. The website may also allow the user to upload personal clips such as family photos voice recordings home movies and the like to the storage locker for later downloading to the user s cellular phone or other electronic equipment. The storage locker may include an organizer for storing the clips in alphabetical order by various categories or any other order.

The website may allow for direct downloads of the clips from the website to the computer itself or to other electronic devices.

To illustrate how downloading through the website may be carried out a user operating the computer may drag his her mouse over the various listed sound or image clips and click on one or more selected clips. Thereafter a box can appear prompting the user to select the appropriate electronic device onto which the clip or clips are to be downloaded e.g. the box may say CELLULAR PHONE DOWNLOAD OR COMPUTER ALERT DOWNLOAD Assuming that the CELLULAR PHONE DOWNLOAD button is selected a prompt for typing in the appropriate cellular phone number will follow. Thereafter the selected clip or clips may be uploaded to the user s personal locker and made available for downloading to the user s handset.

Other features may also be included such as an option allowing the user to arrange multiple downloads in a specific order create a folder for grouping multiple downloads or a feature incorporated into the phone which causes it to ring a selected clip immediately after it has been downloaded. Additionally clips which have been previously downloaded to the phone may be deleted rearranged or reclassified with or without using the website. There are other methods for storing clips on an electronic device such as a cellular phone some of which are described below including direct downloading access for phones without the need for web phone access capabilities .

Alternatively by clicking COMPUTER ALERT DOWNLOAD the selected clip will be downloaded to the user s computer allowing the user to select many different sound and image clips for computer alerts such as e mail notification computer alarm clock and computer calendar notification.

Additionally multiple clips may be associated with one type of alert such that a different clip is played for each alert event. The user will be able to rotate alert clips and preprogram or randomize their order similar to a CD stereo carousel.

The user will also be able to hear or view a selected clip which will play on the website upon the user s command. Browsing capabilities wherein the user can drag his mouse over the sound clips library of selections and hear the clips without having to click or open a file may be included in the website. According to a preferred embodiment a user simply drags his mouse over various clip samples which light up or flash and play one at a time. Any time the user places the cursor over a category of music the first tune in that category plays and the icon representing that category of music switches to display the name of the artist and title of the song or composition being played. Once the user clicks upon that icon he can select the next song and hear the song while at the same time seeing the name of the artist and song title. The user can cycle through all the songs within that category using this approach very quickly to not only browse but to also hear the music. If the user does not wish to switch over to another category of music he simply moves the cursor to another icon and repeats this procedure. To select a particular song the user double clicks on the song which is then included in a collection of selected songs to be downloaded later.

The website may be used as a shopping forum where consumers can hear or view the clips and click to buy items associated with the clips such as music records cassette tapes and CD s DVD s and movie videos or download the entire sound or image file to their computer for a fee. By allowing the user to sample and download clips for use as alerts in electronic devices the website will provide an attractive forum for selling items associated with the sound and image clips and for allowing the user to download the entire file associated with the clip for which a fee may be charged.

Additionally an identifying mini icon such as the song title or recording artist CD icon associated with a clip or with a group of clips may appear on the computer screen at a fixed location and or at the screen display where the clip plays a computer alert. The icon may include a buy button which will allow the user to purchase an item associated with the clip or download the entire file from which the clip originated by clicking on the button. Such buy button may be a hyperlink to a website for transacting the purchase. Where a CD icon is not used the user may click on the song title to purchase an item associated with the clip. If the clip comes form a song that exists on more than one CD the customer will see more than one CD cover to choose which CD to buy.

The utility of clips as alerts for electronic equipment will provide consumers with incentive to browse the website and sample the clips. After hearing or viewing the clip consumers may be induced to purchase items associated with the clips which they will be able to do instantaneously through the website by the click of their mouse.

The website may further be used as a contest forum. The website may be set up to play mystery clips or short segments of sound recordings which contestants will have to identify in order to win a prize i.e. by being the first to e mail or call with the correct answer . Thus a radio show may set up a game where a short segment of a sound clip is played on the radio or user s phone for contestants to guess and is also available for the listeners who want to hear it again on the website.

The website may include forwarding capabilities such that a sound or image clip can be forwarded as a greeting to a friend. The security feature may be used only to prevent transferring of entire files . Consequently the website will attract customers for the purpose of downloading clips to electronic devices and ultimately purchasing items associated with the clips. Additionally the user may subscribe to a service such as an existing cell phone service provider for downloading files through their telephone without having to be online.

The user may also create a clip e.g. by recording a song or personal clip and store the clip onto a sound storage element in the electronic device. Additionally the electronic device can be preprogrammed with clips selected by the manufacturer retailer of the device.

Sound and or image files which include clips may be downloaded without use of the Internet by allowing a user to access a library of clips via their cellular phone or home telephone or providing other electronic devices with features which allow automatic access to the library. Although Internet free accessing will be described with respect to a telephone it is to be understood that the method describe may be compatible with any electronic device preferably having accessing capabilities similar to a telephone .

The library may be a non web holding unit that has files with associated codes which match the codes associated with the files on the website wherein the website serves as a usable guide for identifying various files according to associated codes such as numerical codes to assist the user in downloading files using voice commands or keypad commands.

Additionally cellular phone or home telephone users may access a non web holding unit with a library of stored files which can similarly be browsed selected and downloaded onto the phone using user voice commands key pad commands or by connection to a live operator. Such unit may be accessed by dialing a phone number e.g. an 800 number . Home telephones and cellular phones may have separate holding units such as a satellite for cellular phones and a ground unit for home phones or a satellite can be used by cellular phones to access a ground holding unit.

To facilitate selection of the files from such holding unit the access system may provide for a code associated with each file which may be obtained by browsing the website as described above. As such a user connected to the holding unit would access the code associated with the file to select and download the file to the user s telephone.

Many other methods allowing a user to select files from the holding unit are possible. For example the telephone may include a voice recognition feature wherein the user can say the name or part of the name of the song he wishes to select e.g. Strawberry Fields or the name of the song artist . The phone may also utilize hierarchical submenus whereby the user may press dial keys with letters corresponding to a selection in a given category which ultimately leads to the selection of a particular song. A phone having a screen display for providing a text listing of the names of songs or categories according to hierarchical submenus may also be used for enabling the user to narrow down to a list of songs and or artists from which he can make his final selection.

A telephone may likewise be used to deliver files stored on the phone to a website an e mail address another telephone or other electronic device. Sound clips which are segments of whole songs musical compositions or other sound recordings will be used mostly with telephones however downloading entire music or image files may also be done subject to the security feature described above. Additional revenues may be generated as the consumer accesses the content library and uses airtime while browsing and downloading clips or entire songs from the library holding unit.

Furthermore cellular phone and home telephone service providers may offer extra features to phone subscribers which would allow the subscribers to download and store sound files for use with the telephone in accordance with the present invention. Such features by service providers may include a personal sound file storage box which may be a file of clips and or entire sound files that the user can access via a personal code. The user may be charged a monthly fee for a subscription to the service and or per downloading of each song whether or not the user is a subscriber. Additional revenue can be generated by the service provider even if the service is provided without a special charge since consumers will use more airtime.

A telephone having stored sound clips which may comprise real music including human voice various instrument sounds and other sound effects may allow the user to select one sound clip or a rotation of several clips to ring the phone. Although it is preferable to ring the telephone with sound clips an entire music file may also be used whereby for example a song may start playing and continue until the user picks up the telephone. Of course entire music files may be played on the telephone solely for the user s listening pleasure . The telephone may also be programmed to ring a conventional chime if the user so chooses. Such a telephone may utilize a storage chip carrying stored sound clips as well as the conventional phone chime programmed onto it.

Additionally the telephone may allow the user to determine how many times a clip is repeatedly played for each ring and the time delay between clips in a given ring. The user may also choose to mix different clips in one ring. A telephone may also include a looping feature which rings the telephone in a looped clip such that the clip plays repeatedly without a pause between repetitions of the clip or a cluster feature which rings a cluster clip comprising a multiple number of clip segments from a single song musical composition or other sound recording played in sequence.

Other features will allow the telephone user to preprogram the telephone to play a certain clip when a specific individual calls thereby allowing the user to identify the caller based on the chosen sound clip. Each person who regularly calls the user may have a unique identifying ring. This will allow a telephone user to have the option of assigning a unique sound caller ID to each of an unlimited number of callers. Other features may include allowing a caller to select his own personal sound clip to ring the telephone of the recipient of the call. For example the caller may sing or record a Happy Birthday song. Also a telephone used by more than one user may utilize sound clips for a callee ID function wherein the caller identifies the intended callee e.g. by dialing a digit or sequence of digits and the telephone plays the clip associated with the callee.

Additionally a telephone may be provided with a caller message recorder feature which allows the caller to record his her own message to send to the number dialed. For example the caller may send a message such as Hey John. It s Mary. Pick up the phone by pressing a record ring button on his her phone to send such a message to John s phone. As described earlier the telephone user say John may have a caller ID feature such that when a certain caller say Mary calls the telephone rings with a predetermined message or sound clip selected by John. The additional caller message recorder feature may cause John s telephone to play Mary s message instead of overlaying the predetermined caller ID message or clip. Additionally John may record his own message such as It s Mary and associate that recorded message with Mary s phone number for a caller ID ring.

A telephone according to the present invention may also include a sensory feature for enabling the telephone to sense the level of ambient noise and adjust the loudness of the ring accordingly. If the phone senses very loud background noise for example a cellular phone located in a loud restaurant the ring volume will increase. A feature for detecting whether a cellular phone is located in a pocket book or a place where the ring sound may be muffled is also contemplated. This feature will also enable the phone to adjust the volume of the ring such that the ring will be loud enough for the user to hear. Such detection mechanism can be achieved by detecting ambient light and other conditions.

Additionally the user may manually adjust the volume of the ring via a tunable volume control mechanism or a multiple fixed settings control. Although the above features are described with respect to a phone it is to be understood that these features may also be provided with other electronic devices utilizing sound and or image clips as alerts where applicable .

The system is described in terms of two main components a storage chip and a server . The storage chip is an element associated with the telephone which may be embedded into the phone or into an accessory unit which attaches to the phone having abilities to interface with the phone. The existing hardware of a cellular phone may also be integrated with a software system which may be downloaded to the RAM element of the cell phone for incorporating the present invention without the need for extra hardware. As such the existing hardware of the cellular phone may be made to perform the same function of the chip.

The purpose of the chip is to store a selection of clips allow for downloading of clips to be stored on the chip and allow for the playback of clips either by the telephone or the chip . Although the description herein refers to sound clips it is to be noted that entire sound files may be stored downloaded and played according to the system described . Additionally the chip can associate the stored clips with a caller ID so that the particular clip to be played back is determined by the calling subscriber ID.

The server which is associated with a collection of stored clip files is designed to execute requests of the chip which may be given through user voice commands or commands using the phone keys. The server may be equipped with a voice adapter no for supporting the ITU T Y.253 standard and telephone lines attached to the voice adapter. The voice adapter can also support some standard modem protocols like Y.32 or Y.34 if required for compatibility.

The server also allows for files to be transmitted to the chip for storage. The system enables a connection to the server upon a request from the chip utilizing the phone and or PSIN Public Switched Telephone Network and or a voice card voice modem attached to the server computer.

The system may have a voice menu which after connection to the server allows the user to listen to the server s menu and navigate through the system of voice menus using the telephone s Dual Tone Multi Frequence DTMF keys. The system may allow the user to select and download clips by allowing the user to listen to the clips presented by the server select a clip and issue a download command to the server . The server then sends the selected clip e.g. in digital compressed form using a Custom Data Transmission Protocol CDTP over the voice channel. Illustrated in .

The system allows for storage of a large number of clip files in the chip s memory. The system s server utilizes a music compression algorithm shown in which converts common music files into compressed files that are downloaded and stored by the chip . For example a chip supporting the storage of about 1000 clips each being approximately a few minutes in length may have a flash memory size of about 40 Mbytes. The chip may also have a sound output element such as speakers.

The server comprises software which can run under Windows 98 Windows NT OS or other suitable system using a voice modem for communications. Additionally the system may use a single modem or a pool of several modems.

Examples of telephone systems utilizing the method of the present invention include a cellular phone which may utilize an analogue voice only system or a digital system and a conventional land line telephony network. A system for using a cellular network infrastructure is shown in . A schematic diagram of a landline transmission system for a home telephone is shown in . Again although the following descriptions make reference to the use of sound clips it is to be understood that entire sound files may also be used as described .

All described examples assume existence of a server preferably dedicated for servicing user requests and providing sound clip data download capabilities. A corresponding chip implementing all required functions is associated with the telephone.

The server may be a computer running Microsoft Windows or other suitable environment such as a Pentium PC Win95 98 NT 2000 128 Mb RAM 4 GB HDD. The server may store or be capable of accessing a sound clip database which may be stored on a website or non web holding unit. The sound clip database is stored in a compressed file format of those commonly known.

A schematic diagram for a server software system is shown in for a cellular phone system and for a landline system. The software may be written in C under Microsoft Windows or other suitable language. The functions of the server software include servicing user requests via a user interface element and transmitting a selected sound clip through the phone line via a music clip transmission element.

According to a preferred embodiment the functions of the user interface element include decoding DTMF keys pressed by the user and playing the voice menu labels to the user. The voice menu interface may include hierarchical submenus leading to different functions. In all examples the user interface element can be unified in the sense that the voice interface and DTMF or voice recognition based interface are independent of the type of network or type of phone s used. Implementations that utilize a single server to process requests originating from different types of networks and or phones can therefore be built.

The system of submenus leads a user to the downloading of the selected sound clip. Thereafter control is transferred to the music clip transmission element for downloading sound clips into the phone. The music clip transmission element interfaces directly with the phone accessory unit independent of the user. The music clip transmission element is dependent on the type of the phone used and the network infrastructure.

The cellular telephone may be any commercially available cellular phone having capabilities for supporting a command set for general telephone control i.e. a Y.25 Ter serial asynchronous automatic dialing and control as recommended by the ITU T International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication sector and for supporting Y.25 Ter C extensions according to the ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETS300 916 standard for obtaining codes of keys pressed by the user and for receiving caller ID information. Additionally the phone should have capabilities for subscribing to a cellular provider with caller ID service support.

A schematic diagram of the board is shown in . In an embodiment where an accessory unit is used the board is implemented in the accessory unit which can be attached to the phone through a standard extension connector where other commercially available accessories such as a hands free ear set and charging adapter are typically connected.

The board includes the following main blocks a Digital Signal Processor DSP a flash memory element a Random Access Memory RAM element an initial bootstrap chip an analogue interface element and a digital interface element .

The processor executes the device firmware provides control for all other blocks and performs the computational tasks for the board . The tasks performed by the processor include control of the board s units monitoring of keys pressed by the user and processing of key press events reception of information from the computer through the computer digital interface reception of caller ID information through the phone digital interface reception of packed sound clips through the phone analogue or digital interface unpacking and then playing back sound clips through a built in speaker connected to the analogue interface of the accessory unit support of a voice menu driven user interface and performance of other auxiliary functions.

The flash memory element contains the device firmware and sound clips which can be pre loaded as well as downloaded from the server. The RAM element enables the processor to run faster and also holds buffers for unpacked sound fragments and processor service procedures. When the power is turned on the initial bootstrap chip loads the device.

The analogue interface element includes a phone interface element and a built in speaker interface element . The phone interface element is used for input and output of signals when downloading sound clips from the server . The speaker interface element with the speaker plays all system sounds heard by the user including voice menus and sound clips.

The digital interface element includes a phone interface element and may include a computer interface element . The phone interface element is used for phone control and for receiving key codes and caller ID information from the phone. The computer interface element is used for various service functions such as downloading preprogrammed sound clips from the computer to the flash memory.

The functions of the server software shown in include servicing a user s requests via a user interface element and transmitting a selected sound clip through the phone line via a music clip transmission element .

A user interface element is provided whose functions include decoding DIMF keys pressed by the user and playing the voice menu labels to the user. The voice menu interface may include hierarchical submenus which lead to the downloading of the selected sound clip. Thereafter control is transferred to the music clip transmission element for downloading sound clips into the phone. The music clip transmission element interfaces directly with the phone accessory unit independent of the user.

The selected sound clip may be transmitted through the phone line to the accessory unit first through the server hard drive then through the server software next through the voice adapter then through the phone line of the network to the cellular service provider to the cellular phone and through the analogue interface of the accessory unit then through the processor of the accessory unit and finally through the flash memory element of the accessory unit . When the sound clip transmission is completed the task of the music clip transmission element is completed. Thereafter the phone line is released and control is transferred to the user interface element .

In an autonomous mode the board may contain a number of pre loaded sound clips. Initially the board is in the inactive state. The board and phone interact such that the phone sends to the board codes of all the keys pressed by the user. Upon receiving a particular sequence of codes or when for instance a particular key is pressed for a prolonged period of time the board switches to the active mode. In the active mode the board may interact with the user via a voice menu driven interface where voice messages via a speaker prompt the user to respond by pressing a selection of phone keys indicating the user s responsive selections. The board reacts to the user s selections by analyzing the keys being pressed.

The clips are stored on an internal clip index which can be retrieved from the internal memory and played back according to key commands provided by the user. Examples of voice menu options provided by the device through a speaker upon switching to an active mode include 1 the user may choose to exit the active mode and enter the passive mode e.g. by pressing 0 2 the user may choose to listen to the current sound clip on the clip index e.g. by pressing I 3 the user may choose to listen to the next clip on the index e.g. by pressing 2 4 the user may choose to listen to a previous clip on the index e.g. by pressing 3 or 5 the user may choose to assign a caller ID number to the current clip on the index e.g. by pressing 4 .

Upon choosing to assign a caller ID phone number to the current clip the device may switch to a sub mode with a sub menu having the following options 1 the user may choose to switch back to the previous menu e.g. by pressing 0 2 if the selected clip was already assigned the user may choose to get information regarding the caller ID already associated with the clip e.g. by pressing I or 3 the user may input a new caller ID phone number for the current clip e.g. by pressing 2 indicating this choice then dialing in the phone number followed by the sign .

In the passive mode the device may analyze messages being received from the telephone . Upon receiving an incoming call the device checks the incoming caller s phone number against the list of assigned caller ID sound clips in its memory and plays back the particular sound clip through the built in speaker if the specified caller s phone number was assigned to this clip. Alternatively the device may play back a default sound if the particular caller ID was not assigned to any clip.

In order to transfer digitally compressed sound clip data through the analogue channel a special method and algorithm to map digits to sounds is used. This method is implemented not only for a cellular telephone using an analogue cellular network but also for a landline transmission system of a home phone shown in .

A data transmission method for transferring data through the phone line and the receiver based on a voice mode connection versus data mode and DIMF signal interpretation is illustrated in . A similar approach can be implemented for a landline telephone that does not have a data transmission mode.

For transmitting data through the phone line the transmission method comprises the steps of a data scrambling b data mapping c conversion of frequency symbols to time samples d addition of cyclic prefix and e digital to analogue conversion . The data is then sent through the receiver following the reverse steps of f analogue to digital conversion g symbol synchronization h conversion of time samples to frequency symbols i decoding frequency symbols to bits and j descrambling the data .

The transmission method is used to provide enough speed for the data transmission. The transmission method allows simultaneous use of the voice communication and data transmission features during one connection session without having to switch the mode of connection. A customer does not need to use a Wireless Internet Service Provider. A user can simply place a regular call to the specific number e.g. an 800 number to gain access to the Server. The dual mode connection allows for voice and push button support as well as voice recognition service.

An orthogonal frequency division multiplex OFDM modulation scheme is used for data transmission. The benefits of OFDM include 1 the modulation can be made robust to Inter Symbol Interference IS by increasing symbol size 2 the modulation can be made robust to impulse noise by increasing symbol size 3 for each individual sub channel the channel s response could be considered essentially flat minimizing the need for channel equalization and 4 different encoding schemes could be used for different sub channels for accommodating frequency selective channel distortions.

The total bandwidth to be used by the method is determined by the worst case of supported audio channel. A suitable algorithm for compression of the voice channel is the GSM RPE LTP algorithm which essentially has a built in down sampling by a factor of 3 in which the allowed bandwidth is limited at 4000 3 1333 Hz. Usually channel response is severely limited at frequencies below about 200 Hz to 250 Hz. No OFDM symbol time windowing is employed to minimize variations of transmitted signal amplitude envelope.

A compressed voice channel can also introduce significant non linear distortions. Therefore it is not feasible to have a large number of sub channels otherwise the algorithm would be affected by significant inter channel interference ICI due to loss of orthogonality between sub channels. About 32 sub channels appear to provide enough symbol size while maintaining satisfactory low ICI.

Each OFDM symbol consists of a minimum number of samples sufficient to represent all sub channels. To increase computation efficiency a Fast Fourier Transform is employed to convert sub channel symbols from frequency to time area. Therefore for 32 sub channels OFDM symbol size should be at least 64 real samples at 2666 Hz rate . A circular prefix of 16 samples is used to improve separation between symbols and minimize ISI Inter Symbol Interference and ICI. Therefore total symbol size is 80 samples at 2666 Hz.

Circular extension prefix redundancy present in the signal is used to facilitate OFDM symbol synchronization in the receiver. A synchronization subsystem effectively computes auto correlation coefficients of the received sequence e.g. at 2666 Hz . The output of the correlator goes through a rectifying phase locked loop like system which outputs synchronization impulses at the proper time instants to sample OFDM symbols correctly.

Synchronization system induced timing jitter leads to rotation of received sub channel phasors by increments proportional to the central frequency of a particular sub channel. This rotation is compensated in the decision scheme.

The output of a scrambler is mapped onto complex symbols amplitude phase of the OFDM sub channels. Individual sub channels use QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying modulation.

Data scrambling is employed in order to provide statistically random distribution of transmitted symbols to reduce peak to average power ratio of OFDM symbols. A self synchronizing scrambler with generating polynomial of is 1 X1B X23 is used which at the transmitter effectively divides the data sequence by the generating polynomial. The coefficients of the quotients taken in descending order form the output data sequence.

The above described accessory unit is provided in this example in the context of analogue providing only voice channel cellular network.

Initially the device is in an inactive mode. A user dials the server number and navigating through a system of voice menus supported by the server software listens to and selects a particular sound clip in the same way as browsing the loaded sound clips in the autonomous mode. Instead of assigning a caller ID the user may choose to download sound clips.

When a user navigating through the server voice menus selects to download the current clip and in the embodiment using an accessory unit activates the accessory unit through the predefined key sequence the process of transmission of the selected sound clip is initiated. After selecting a download option the user may press a specific key combination on the phone to switch the accessory unit from the inactive to the active mode. The unit then begins to interact with the server using the analogue channel provided by phone and network. The already established phone connection is used to receive information. The device may receive the sound clip selected by the user and download it into internal flash memory.

At the end of a session the unit forces the telephone to hang up and switches to the autonomous mode which enables the user to assign a new caller ID to the sound clip just received. When a user navigating through the server voice menus selects to download a clip and activates the accessory unit through the pre defined key sequence the process for transmission of the selected sound clip is initiated.

The selected sound clip is transmitted through the phone line to the accessory unit first through the server hard drive then through the server software next through the voice adapter then through the phone line of the network to the cellular service provider to the cellular phone and through the analogue interface of the accessory unit then through the processor of the accessory unit and finally through the flash memory element of the accessory unit .

Generally the server software retrieves the selected sound clip from a database converts it to the special sequence of sounds modulates transfers codes of these sounds to the voice adapter that converts these codes to actual sounds and transfers these sounds to the phone line . From the phone line the sounds go to a cellular provider through to a radio channel and to the cellular phone itself much like voice sounds are transferred during a normal phone conversation . The sounds then go through the connector and are received in analogue form by the board . The sounds are then converted by the device ADC Analog to Digital Converter to the digital form and are processed by the DSP digital signal processor demodulated to the same digital data form initially stored on the database e.g. in MPEG audio format . In this form the sound clip data are written into the flash memory of the device .

Following a reverse direction going from the board to the server using the same chain the device sends to the server either an acknowledgement of a successful delivery of the sound clip data or a list of data blocks received with errors so that these blocks can be resent in a second try. In order to transmit digital data through the analogue channel a similar procedure is used to convert data to sounds and back.

When all the data is transferred without errors the board signals to the server that the call may be disconnected. Thereafter the server instructs the voice adapter to hang up freeing the phone line for another client and the board switches to the autonomous mode allowing the user to assign a caller ID to the sound clip most recently downloaded.

The above described accessory unit is used in this example in the context of digital capable of providing a dedicated data transmission channel cellular network. Since in this case a digital channel is used for sound clip data transmission no modulation is required on the mobile phone side. The server on the other hand uses a modulation protocol compatible with the protocol supported by the cellular network provider. Usually this can be accomplished by using a standard ITU T approved modem like Y.32 or Y.34.

Initially the unit is in an inactive mode. A user dials the server number and navigating through a system of voice menus supported by the server software listens to and selects a particular sound clip in the same way as browsing the loaded sound clips in the autonomous mode. Instead of assigning a caller ID the user may choose to download sound clips.

When a user navigating through the server voice menus selects to download the current clip and activates the accessory unit through the pre defined key sequence the process of transmission of the selected sound clip is initiated. After selecting a download option the user may press a specific key combination on the phone to switch the accessory unit from the inactive to the active mode. The unit then begins to interact with the server using the digital channel provided by the phone and the network. If possible the already established phone connection is used or a new connection is established specifically for digital data transmission.

The selected sound clip is transmitted through the phone line to the accessory unit first through the server hard drive then through the server software next through the voice adapter modem then through the phone line of the network to the cellular service provider to the cellular phone and through the digital interface of the accessory unit then through the processor of the accessory unit and finally through the flash memory element of the accessory unit .

Generally the server software retrieves the selected sound clip from a database transfers codes of these sounds to the voice adapter modem that converts these codes to actual sounds using one of the standard modulation protocols supported by the cellular provider like ITU T Y.32 or Y.34 and transfers these sounds to the phone line . From the phone line the sounds go to a cellular provider where they are demodulated back into digital sends to the server either an acknowledgement of a successful delivery of the sound clip data or a list of data blocks received with errors so that these blocks can be resent in a second try. In order to transmit digital data through the analogue channel a similar procedure is used to convert data to sounds and back.

When all the data is transferred without errors the board signals to the server that the call may be disconnected. Thereafter the server instructs the voice adapter to hang up freeing the phone line for another client and the board switches to the autonomous mode allowing the user to assign a caller ID to the sound clip most recently downloaded.

The above described accessory unit is used in this example in the context of digital capable of providing a dedicated data transmission channel cellular network. Since in this case a digital channel is used for sound clip data transmission no modulation is required on the mobile phone side. The server on the other hand uses a modulation protocol compatible with the protocol supported by the cellular network provider. Usually this can be accomplished by using a standard ITU T approved modem like Y.32 or Y.34.

Initially the unit is in an inactive mode. A user dials the server number and navigating through a system of voice menus supported by the server software listens to and selects a particular sound clip in the same way as browsing the loaded sound clips in the autonomous mode. Instead of assigning a caller ID the user may choose to download sound clips.

When a user navigating through the server voice menus selects to download the current clip and activates the accessory unit through the pre defined key sequence the process of transmission of the selected sound clip is initiated. After selecting a download option the user may press a specific key combination on the phone to switch the accessory unit from the inactive to the active mode. The unit then begins to interact with the server using the digital channel provided by the phone and the network. If possible the already established phone connection is used or a new connection is established specifically for digital data transmission.

The selected sound clip is transmitted through the phone line to the accessory unit first through the server hard drive then through the server software next through the voice adapter modem then through the phone line of the network to the cellular service provider to the cellular phone and through the digital interface of the accessory unit then through the processor of the accessory unit and finally through the flash memory element of the accessory unit .

Generally the server software retrieves the selected sound clip from a database transfers codes of these sounds to the voice adapter modem that converts these codes to actual sounds using one of the standard modulation protocols supported by the cellular provider like ITU T Y.32 or Y.34 and transfers these sounds to the phone line . From the phone line the sounds go to a cellular provider where they are demodulated back into digital showing three data blocks and for corresponding data indicated in the figure as Data1 Data2 and Data3 with corresponding headers Hdr1 Hdr2 and Hdr3 . Positive acknowledgements Ack1 and Ack2 are sent for packets numbers and . Packet number is originally received with an error indicated by Nack and is subsequently re sent to successfully correct the error whereby a positive acknowledgement Ack3 is sent.

If the phone or network supports only unidirectional data transmission the other protocol can be utilized to minimize the number of channel direction alterations. In this case all data blocks for the sound clip are sent at once by the server without receiving acknowledgements for the individual packets. Then a single control packet is transferred in the opposite device to server direction. This control packet contains a bit mask with one bit for each data block received. Each bit in the bit mask has a 1 value if the corresponding data block was received without errors or a 0 value if the corresponding block was affected by errors. The server then re sends those blocks that were received with errors in the first pass. When all data blocks are transferred and the acknowledgement mask without errors indication is received by the server the sound clip is considered to be completely delivered. Example of such interaction is shown in where the packet number is originally received with an error and is successfully re sent subsequently to correct the error. Note that only two ACK packets were sent during the entire procedure.

The system has two main components a home telephone accessory unit and a server . The accessory unit is an autonomous unit attached to the phone line and to the phone between the line and the phone and powered from the AC power outlet. A chip performing the same function of the accessory unit may instead be embedded in the phone itself. The purpose of the accessory unit is to support selection downloading and playback of sound clips according to the Caller ID of the calling subscriber. The accessory unit may include a speaker system and enables the phone to ring sound clips or perform other functions as described for the cellular phone .

The server which is associated with stored clip files which may be stored on a website or a non web holding unit is designed to execute requests of the accessory unit either through user voice commands or commands using the phone keys and allows for files to be transmitted to the accessory unit for storage. The system enables a connection to the server upon a request from the accessory unit utilizing the phone and PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network and an adapter voice modem attached to the server computer. The system may have a voice menu which after connection to the server allows the user to listen to the server s menu and navigate through the system of voice menus using the phone s DTMF keys. The system may allow the user to select and download clips by allowing the user to listen to the clips presented by the server select a clip and issue a download command to the server. The server then sends the selected clip e.g. in digital compressed form using the Custom Data Transmission Protocol CDTP over the voice channel.

The device may further interface with a home PC for downloading sound files to the device. The interface may be a plug in connection or may use a wireless network system.

The accessory unit may be sold as a unit compatible to most home phones including cordless phones and may connect directly to the phone jack with the phone connected to the device. Similar to the cellular phone a home phone may include an embedded chip instead of the accessory unit for performing functions similar to those of the accessory unit U04 

The handset of a cordless phone utilizing sound clips according to the present invention may ring simultaneously with the box wherein the handset may sound a regular phone ring or a sound clip ring while the box plays a sound clip ring.

The server comprises software shown in which can run under Windows 98 Windows NT OS or other suitable system using a voice modem for communications. Additionally the system may use a single modem or a pool of several modems.

Initially the accessory unit U02 is in an inactive mode. A user dials the server number and navigating through a system of voice menus supported by the server software listens to and selects a particular sound clip in the same way as browsing the loaded sound clips in the autonomous mode. Instead of assigning a caller ID the user may choose to download sound clips.

When a user navigating through the server voice menus selects to download the current clip and activates the accessory unit through the pre defined key sequence the process of transmission of the selected sound clip is initiated. After selecting a download option the user may press a specific key combination on the phone to switch the accessory unit from the inactive to the active mode. The device then begins to interact with the server using the analogue channel provided by the telephone and the network. The already established phone connection is used to receive information.

The selected sound clip is transmitted through the telephone line to the accessory unit first through server next through the adapter then through the telephone line of the PSTN to and through the analogue interface of the accessory unit shown in then through the processor of the accessory unit and finally through the flash memory element of the accessory unit .

A schematic diagram of a board implemented in the accessory unit is shown in . The board includes the following main blocks a processor element e.g. a Digital Signal Processor DSP a flash memory element a Random Access Memory RAM element a bootstrap chip an analogue interface element and a digital interface element .

The processor executes the device firmware provides control for all other blocks and performs the computational tasks for the board. The tasks performed by the processor include control of the board s units monitoring of keys pressed by the user and processing of key press events reception of information from the computer through the computer digital interface reception of caller ID information from telephony service provider reception of sound clips through the phone analogue interface unpacking and then playing back sound clips through a built in speaker connected to the analogue interface of the accessory unit support of a voice menu driven user interface and performance of other auxiliary functions.

The flash memory element contains the device firmware and the sound clips which can be preloaded as well as downloaded from the server. The RAM element enables the processor to run faster and also holds buffers for unpacked sound fragments and processor service procedures. When the power is turned on the bootstrap chip loads the device.

The Analogue Interface element includes a telephone interface element and a built in speaker interface element. The telephone interface element is used for input and output of signals when downloading sound clips from the server . The speaker interface element with the speakers plays all system sounds heard by the user including voice menus and sound clips.

The digital interface element may include a computer interface element and other digital interface elements to the home network. The computer interface element may be used for various service functions such as downloading preprogrammed sound clips from the computer to the Flash Memory.

In an autonomous mode the accessory unit contains a number of pre loaded sound clips. Initially the accessory unit is in the inactive state. The accessory unit and telephone interact such that the telephone sends to the accessory unit codes of all the keys pressed by the user. Upon receiving a particular sequence of codes or when for instance a particular key is pressed for a prolonged period of time the accessory unit switches to the active mode. In the active mode the accessory unit may interact with the user via a voice menu driven interface where voice messages via a speaker prompt the user to respond by pressing a selection of phone keys indicating the user s responsive selections. The accessory unit reacts to the user s selections by analyzing the keys being pressed.

In the passive mode the accessory unit may analyze messages being received from the telephone . Upon receiving an incoming call the accessory unit checks the incoming caller s phone number against the list of assigned caller ID sound clips in its memory and plays back the sound clip through the built in speakers if the specified caller s phone number was assigned to this clip. Alternatively the accessory unit may play back a default sound if the particular Caller ID was not assigned to any clip.

A schematic diagram of the server software is shown in . The server software is used for servicing user requests through user interface element and transmitting the selected sound clip through the phone line via music clip transmission element . The user interface element decodes DTMF keys pressed by the user and plays voice menu labels to the user. The voice menu interface includes hierarchical submenus to lead the user to the downloading of the desired sound clip where control is transferred to the music clip transmission element .

The music clip transmission element downloads sound clips to the phone independent of the user interface element interfacing directly with the phone accessory unit. The music clip transmission element initially transmits the selected sound clip to the adapter for data transmission from the server to the accessory unit. When the sound clip transmission is completed the task of the music clip transmission element is done and the telephone line is released and control is transferred to the user interface element

Generally the server software retrieves the selected sound clip from a server database which is associated with an audio data optimization and compression element converts the clip to the special sequence of sounds modulates and transfers codes of these sounds to the adapter which converts these codes to actual sounds and transfers these sounds to the phone line . From the phone line the sounds go through the PSTN and are received in analogue form by the accessory unit . The sounds are then converted by the device ADC Analog to Digital Converter to the digital form and are processed by the DSP digital signal processor to the same digital data form initially stored in the server database e.g. in MPEG audio format . In this form the sound clip data are written into the flash memory of the accessory unit .

Following a reverse direction going from the accessory unit to the server using the same chain the device sends to the server either an acknowledgement of a successful delivery of the sound clip data or a list of data blocks received with errors so that these blocks can be resent in a second try. In order to transmit digital data through the analogue channel a similar procedure is used to convert data to sounds and back. When all the data is transferred without errors the accessory unit signals to the server that the call may be disconnected. Thereafter the server instructs the adapter to hang up freeing the phone line for another client and the accessory unit switches to the autonomous mode allowing the user to assign a Caller ID to the sound clip most recently downloaded.

The server audio data optimization and compression element utilizes a music compression algorithm outlined in which converts common music files into compressed files in order to reduce the audio clip size for minimizing its download time while maintaining predetermined audio quality. These files are downloaded and stored by the accessory unit .

The method of compressing the files comprises the steps of a conversion b amplitude normalization c sample rate conversion d pre emphasis filtering e amplitude normalization 

and t performance of MPEG audio layer 3 MP3 compression with the selected parameters . The compressed files are then transferred to the server database.

Step of conversion to mono only needs to be performed if the input file is in stereo and if the audio output subsystem of the target hardware is only capable of playing back mono audio. At this step all available information is included into the output audio by summing of the left and right channels to form a single mono output.

After conversion or if the file does not need to be converted to mono. compression begins with the step of amplitude normalization wherein sample amplitudes in the file are normalized. This step is required for enabling audio utilization of all available dynamic range and for improving the computational accuracy of subsequent steps. In order to maximize preservation of original audio range a fixed coefficient for the entire audio file normalization is used. The coefficient is obtained using input file analysis to stretch the input audio range over the maximum available range.

Step converts sample rate of audio files to selected sampling frequency. The original audio clips may have various sampling rates 44100 Hz 48000 Hz 22050 Hz 11025 Hz etc. . After analysis of available hardware capabilities an optimal sampling frequency which provides the most adequate audio quality is selected. Increasing the sampling frequency above the optimal sampling frequency would not significantly increase the perceptual audio quality due to the limitations of the audio output subsystem of the accessory unit. For example for the cellular phone system of after analysis of available hardware capabilities and a series of perceptual tests the 22050 Hz sampling frequency was selected as providing the most adequate audio quality since the audio output subsystem of the accessory unit has a relatively sharp drop in response for frequencies above 10 12 kHz.

In order to avoid aliasing effects when changing from higher to lower sampling rate a low pass pre filtering with a cutoff slightly lower than the new Nyquist frequency is applied before down sampling. For rates that are not multiples of each other cascaded sampling rate conversion schemes are constructed to minimize memory consumption and improve performance.

The step of pre emphasis filtering along with the re sampling of the previous stage takes into account the specifics of the audio output subsystem of the accessory unit to achieve improvement of the perceptual audio quality and to reduce the resulting audio size after compression.

Since the speaker of the audio output subsystem of accessory unit is preferably very small the resulting sound has very low power in the low frequency range. Therefore providing output in the low frequency range is likely to be futile as it would only increase the size of audio file without any perceptual improvements. Additionally providing output in the low frequency range may create undesirable overflow effects for the speaker.

For example for the cellular phone system of all frequency content below about 400 Hz is removed from the audio. In order to make the audio more perceptually rich in the low frequency range frequencies around 600 Hz are increased by about 6 dB. The frequency range from 1200 Hz to 8200 Hz is kept unchanged. Then starting from about 8200 Hz the signal power is gradually increased up to 15 dB at the highest frequency 11 kHz . This compensates for the drop in speaker transfer function at high frequencies and improves the listening experience.

A set of subjective audio perceptual tests with various types of audio contents using the wide spectrum of hardware of the target platform has proved that the above described pre emphasis significantly improves the perceptual quality of resulting audio. At the same time reducing frequency contents in the non significant frequency regions allows reduction of the resulting compressed audio size since the data bits are not allocated to non used frequencies.

The described pre emphasis procedure is implemented by a filtering with a FIR Finite Impulse Response filter according to the formula 

The bcoefficients are fixed and computed for the particular sampling rate and the desired pre emphasis response curve. The filter can be designed to have a linear phase response this is actually guaranteed if the b.sub.1 coefficients are symmetric which would ensure absence of phase distortions to the audio. Since the delay introduced by the filter is not harmful for off line processing the filter size can be made rather large to approximate the desired response curve with a high precision.

After completing the step of pre emphasis filtering normalization of the sample amplitude is once again performed. Since the filtering significantly changes the signal the second amplitude normalization step is required to convert resulting audio loudness to some pre defined value.

Proceeding to step the processed audio clip is compressed into an MPEG Layer 3 bit stream. The resulting bit rate level of compression can be varied to suit different needs. For instance it can be made dependent on the source audio clip length to make the compressed file fit into a pre defined size. Alternatively it can be made dependent on the anticipated delivery method to create for instance a built in audio clip of a very good quality or to make the audio clip of a very small size for delivery through a slow channel . The compression parameters can also be selected so that the clip delivery time is a constant independent of the actual link transfer rate.

Technical Description of a Preferred Embodiment for a Cellular Phone Accessory Unit Electrical Schematics

Firmware debugging is carried out through the JTAG Joint Test Action Group port using standard TI Texas Instruments software. External RAM is mapped both to the program and data space at the same addresses and occupies all lower address space 64 k . Flash memory Serial Data Flash is accessed using software emulation of SPI protocol.

Audio code Coder decoder works at approx. 22 kHz sampling rate both channels . The Mode Control transistor selects the phone interface mode either RS 232

control mode closed state or hands free mode opened state . The phone itself does not support simultaneous usage of these two modes.

Both channels of RS 232 work at 11 5200 baud rate. From the PC side CTS Clear to Send and DTR Data Terminal Ready signals are supported. From the phone side CTS and RTS Request to Send signals are supported with inverted polarities. Both channels employ hardware flow control.

The analogue signal level at the phone input is about 100 mV RMS Root Mean Square . The level at the phone output is about 600 m V RMS.

A cellular phone with an accessory unit according to one embodiment is shown in using the Ericsson R520 as an example. The accessory unit is housed in thin cover see providing a mounting body for attaching the phone to the unit via an interface connector . The accessory unit contains the printed circuit board and speaker preferably along the thin portion of the body.

The accessory unit is attached to the back of the phone using the phone connector . A snap mounting which utilizes a dimpled section on the phone case typically intended for a car phone holder may also be used.

The accessory unit includes the seIVer software and two voice modems attached to the seIVer. The mounting body contains all necessary electronic components.

The tasks of the electronic components include playing back of a pre loaded sound clip upon a caller ID notification reception and downloading new clips from the seIVer.

The body of the accessory unit preferably comprises a base a thin cover and a molded cover . All three body components are preferably made of high quality aluminum magnesium copper alloy duralumin and are chemically covered with a protective oxide film using two different dyes colored and black for the two copies of the device. A dense rubber casing may also be used. Factors considered in selecting the body material include lightness so that the accessory unit would not exceed the phone itself in weight mechanical strength and the quality of electromagnetic shielding properties for protecting the internal components from the waves radiated by the phone.

According to one embodiment the accessory unit that embodies the delivery system for a cellular phone attachment is about 1.5 .times.1.5 .times.0.25 and includes a small high fidelity built in speaker. The accessory unit may connect into the AC adapter fixture in the bottom of a cellular phone. A dense rubber casing or glove may house the device to protect it. The inside of the rubber glove may have a molded cavity that the device will fit into. The glove may have a circle of small holes which line up with the device s speaker to allow full sound penetration. The device and glove may be sold in different design variations both for marketing purposes and for fitting the different cellular phones on the market.

Additionally the accessory unit may connect into a cable connector instead of an AC adapter jack so that different jacks can be used. The device may also be modified with four or five variations to fit the various cellular phone software systems not AC adapter variations currently on the market. The device including a speaker may also be made with several different adapter applications that would attach to a variety of different phonics.

A snap on mount for fastening the accessory unit to the phone may be located in the base body. The main purpose of the thin cover is to provide the electromagnetic shielding. The molded cover contains connectors and some other components.

A simple snap mechanism for attaching the accessory unit to the phone similar to the installation of a cellular phone to a car phone holder may be provided.

The accessory to phone mounting is preferably designed to withstand repeated attachment and detachment without degradation of the snap on mounting or connector. Although the phone body is also durable it is preferable to attach and detach the accessory by shifting the snap on lock upward manually during the attachment procedure like to during detachment to reduce wear of phone body near the latch.

The PCB printed circuit board located inside the accessory unit is a multi layer board which may have 0.2 mm gaps two solder mask layers and a silkscreen layer. The board preferably carries all the components as illustrated in the schematics excluding connectors and the speaker. Two outer layers of the board are signal layers two internal layers are ground and 3.3V power plane. For convenience of the PCB assembly on modem plants most packages are surface mounted but not BGA. The board preferably does not contain any components requiring rare or custom made equipment for their assembly.

The phone connector is preferably selected to maximize the firmness of the attachment taking into account significant dimensions of the accessory unit. It should be mentioned that the connectors are unique to the type of the phone used Ericsson R520 and compatible like R320 and 128 in this example .

Factors in selection of the speaker for music playback included sound quality which is primarily related to the speaker size compactness and weight of the speaker as it is desirable that the speaker not be thicker and heavier than the phone itself. Depending on the available technology there may be some tradeoff between good speaker quality and having a lightweight speaker. Speakers used in professional radio receivers scanners may be a reasonable compromise since such speakers provide better than usual sound quality while possessing reasonable dimensions and weight. Other options include either sacrificing weight and dimensions to increase sound quality or using the new so called ceramic speakers that are now appearing on the market. Mention should be made that although using these speakers could provide better quality special modifications to the device would be required since these speakers could not be directly substituted in place of the standard ones.

It should also be noted that the bandwidth of the acoustic channel of the cellular phone which in turn is non linearly compressed and transmitted over a digital channel of the phone is much less than the bandwidth of the conventional landline phone and can deliver about 150 bytes per seconds data transfer rate. Conventional landline phone could deliver about 3700 bytes per seconds V.34 . Using better speakers in the phone would entail loading sound fragments of better quality and therefore of bigger size which would increase the time necessary to download a melody. The problem could be solved by using the GSM digital data channel directly which would provide a rate of about 1000 bytes per second for existing cellular networks and more than 7000 bytes per second for newly deployed systems. Alternative solutions include having to tolerate an increase in the sound file or sound clip download time downloading a melody from a local computer the melody being delivered to the local computer by some alternate means and redesigning the system to support conventional landline phones. In the latter case due to the significant increase in the device body size it may make more sense to use a stereo effect which is reasonable when the speakers of left and right channels have enough spatial separation .

The server described herein performs the following functions 1 startup detection of the modem detection of the melodies available 2 answering incoming calls and 3 servicing requests of user via D1MF codes.

Upon startup the application requests the user to select which device to work with. Possible options include local test mode 0 modem on COMI port 1 and modem on COM2 port 2 .

If the local test mode is selected all sounds will be played back using the sound card of the local computer and the computer keyboard will be used to control the server via numeric buttons instead of D1MF keyboard . This mode is primarily for system testing purposes.

If one of the modems is selected all sounds will be played back into the phone line using the selected modem and the calling party s phone keyboard D1MF tones will be used to control the server. This is the normal mode of server operation.

The answering of incoming calls is performed differently in the local and the normal modes. In the local mode the application waits for the R key to be pressed to simulate remote party RING while in the normal mode the application waits for the RING signal from the modem. Then in either mode the application initializes the device used sound card or modem . In the latter case the modem goes off hook and plays back the greeting message and the main menu e.g. O End of the session I Current 3 Next 4 Load .

Thereafter the application goes into calling party servicing loop. Exit from the loop is possible upon reception of D1MF code 0 or its simulation using the keyboard or after the 30 seconds timeout if no reaction is detected from the remote user. Additionally if working with the modem the loop is exited when short beeps BUSY condition is detected on the phone line. In the local mode the X key also leads to the immediate exit of the application.

The calling party servicing algorithm may work as follows the software keeps the internal counter or number of the current sound clip. Initially this number is 0 indicating that the clip is at the top of the list. Upon receiving the 1 command the software plays back the clip with the current number. Upon receiving the 2 command the software increases the number and plays back the melody i.e. plays the next melody. Upon receiving the 3 command the software decreases the number and plays back the melody i.e. plays the previous melody. Upon receiving the 4 command the melody download is simulated. For the obvious reason this mode is not implemented yet. Upon receiving the 0 command the application switches the modem on hook releasing the phone line and returns to the incoming call waiting state. Upon encountering any other command the application plays back a standard error message. At any moment the server application can be aborted by pressing C combination on the keyboard.

The server application keeps a log file e.g. named ProgramName N.Log where N is a port number. Therefore if two instances of the application are started one for the modem on COMI and the other for the modem on COM2 two independent log files will be created. The log file contains brief information about user and server actions times of events their main features for example state of the modem or the sound card. These files are intended to be sent to the software developers in case of problems but can be used for other purposes as well for example to estimate the server load.

Due to the fact that the server application always plays a melody with the same quality as one would be able to hear through the conventional phone channel monophonic 8 kHz sampling rate signal bandwidth up to 3.7 kHz the sound quality of the played back clips may be low. This is not related in any way with the quality of sound that would be digitally transferred to the client s phone when the melody is selected since listening to the clips from server through the phone network could not deliver better quality than the phone channel itself. For this reason sound files compressed in monophonic versus stereo form would be preferred since the rate of delivery would be faster with no loss in playback quality from the phone. At the same time when the clips are downloaded into the phone in digital form significantly better quality could be delivered upon playback due to the perceptual compression however this would increase the transfer time.

The server software could also be implemented to track which clips were sent to which user or subscriber. This information could then be tracked and reported to different third parties such as the Copyright Office or performing or artist s rights organizations or societies.

Electronic devices adapted to receive sound and image data according to the present invention may be provided with an attachment or built in mechanism for providing consumers with Internet based or Internet free access to a library of downloadable sound and or image files. Consumers may be allowed to download free clips of a song musical composition or other sound recording or movie or other performance onto any of these devices for use as alerts.

After hearing or viewing a clip the user preferably by the push of a button may transact a purchase of the full file associated with the clip which may be downloaded to the device in its entirety or delivered to the user s address on an independent medium such as records cassette tapes CDs videotapes and DVDs. Such practice is intended to encourage the sales of sound and image files by giving the user the opportunity to quickly make an impulse purchase.

A device for downloading and listening to music files which is similar to a walkman type I Pod device but uses the same delivery method as described for the cellular phone comprises a speaker and or an earphone set for listening to music with volume controls such as Bose or Shure E5 universal earphones and a server access element which may be approximately the size of a credit card . Such a device may be used as a hand held portable music player as well as a car radio or home system and may include larger speakers for use as an audio system by businesses such as bars restaurants and clubs.

In addition to features which allow a user to access the server library the device may include other features common to conventional MP3 players and or Apple I Pod devices. The server access element includes controls which may be buttons for accessing browsing and downloading files from the server to the device. Speed dial technology may be used for accessing the server. For browsing a multi task arrows button which allows the user to browse listen to samples and highlight specific selections may be provided.

The server access element may include a small LCD monitor approximately 1 1.75 for text browsing the server library. A small microphone hole may also be included for allowing the user to browse the library using voice commands. The earphone set or speaker will enable the user listen to downloaded sound files.

Downloaded files may be stored on a device storage list for accessing at all times or deleted. Thus the user may access a library containing a large number of sound files and browse download and listen to music without the Internet or the need to plug into a computer. The consumer may be charged a fee for each download or may be able to purchase actual items for delivery to an address indicated by the user such as records cassette tapes and CD s through the access element. Free clips which the user can download may induce the consumer into purchasing the entire sound file from where the clip originated.

The device may also include a mechanism for allowing a user to store downloaded files on a medium such as a card independent of the device. To this end the device may provide a slot into which a storage card may be inserted such that when the device is full files may be downloaded onto the card for emptying space on the device. A security mechanism may also be included to prevent intellectual property abuse for example by preventing users from playing copied files on other devices as described above. Such devices may further include a monitoring feature which would allow performing rights organizations such as ASCAP and BMI to keep track of music publicly played by business such as bars restaurants and clubs for the purpose of paying out royalties.

A schematic diagram for a media file monitoring system according to a preferred embodiment is shown in for use with an I Pod type listening device wherein a consumer may purchase copyright registered media files which are downloaded wirelessly to the device . The system includes an existing wireless network of 1.5G or more a system monitoring server and a system content server . The monitoring server monitors and counts every file delivered to the consumer device for monitoring and counting every file delivered to the device . The server may track each individually titled file which may include information such as song title and artist name purchase price the consumer s name and other identity information time of delivery and any other pertinent information. The server may also protect encrypted copyrighted files from illegal file copying. The content server stores copyrighted digital media content licensed from multiple entertainment companies. Thereafter monitoring information including statistics may be transmitted e.g. through the Internet to a company or organization. The system described may also apply to a viewer device for monitoring image files.

A portable laptop type viewer device for accessing and viewing image and or sound files may comprise a wireless earphone set and or speaker for listening to programs with volume controls and a Personal Digital Assistant PDA with a monitor which may be approximately the size of a laptop computer. This device allows the user to access a server library containing a large number of movies TV shows cartoons and other files using either text or voice activation without the need to plug into a computer or use of the Internet or other computer based wireless telecommunication system.

The files may be categorized and subcategorized by type of file i.e. movies TV shows then by title or name of main actors. TV shows may further be classified by providing a description for each episode similar to a description provided in a TV Guide Other categories and subcategories of classification may be provided to allow the user to identify the exact file he wishes to access.

The device allows the user to browse download preview store and view his selections using text voice or button commands wherein a fee may be charged by the provider for any or all of these options. The files may be made available as clips as well as in their entirety. The viewer device may include a folder containing previously downloaded image files that can be accessed at any time and deleted when desired. The library may be organized by categories such as type of show i.e. movies TV sitcoms names of actors show titles sitcom description e.g. as appearing in TV Guide . etc.

The method of delivering sound and image files in accordance with the present invention can further be utilized as an advertising tool. To this end any of the above described systems carrying the library of sound and or image files which include a website and non Internet accessible holding unit may be used to expose the user to sponsored advertising messages. For example a user calling the holding unit may hear advertising while the system is accessing the library.

Other advertising opportunities may be provided by utilizing a phone or other electronic device using alerts according to the present invention. For example the phone may ring with advertising gimmicks such as promotional messages. Such advertisement gimmicks may be played as default rings when no clip is selected for the ring. Additionally a phone may be programmed to play or transmit advertisements spontaneously. Clips containing advertising messages such as jingles may also be provided. Advertising messages may be tacked onto a user selected clip of a popular song or the like.

A method of distributing music and audiovisual works to consumers while accounting to copyright owners of the works comprises a Making available on a website various selections of works in various categories for review by identifying information and offering a portion of the work for hearing or listening each work being coded internally with identification to a copyright owner or its representative b Allowing consumers to select the viewable or listenable portion of the work for data storage online or for downloading to the consumers electronic devices at home wherein the downloaded file being encrypted to only play on the consumer s electronic devices first receiving the download c Optionally tracking those consumers who received the download of the portion of the work and reporting to the copyright owners or their representatives information concerning the download d Allowing a consumer to return to the website to purchase and download a complete copy of the copyrighted work previously sampled by the consumer e Conducting an online purchasing transaction and charging the consumer for the download f Downloading a complete copy of the copyrighted work to the consumer in an encrypted fashion so as to be playable only in the consumer s electronic device and not exchangeable with third parties g Tracking those consumers who received the download of the copyrighted work and reporting to the copyright owner of their representatives information concerning the download and h Paying the copyright owners or their representatives a portion of the money received from the consumers for their downloading of the copyrighted work.

The delivery system according to the present invention will also integrate with future wireless technology such as 3 G systems as it becomes available for offering enhanced capabilities for accessing delivering and using sound and image files.

While the present invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment or to particular embodiments it will be understood that various changes and additional variations may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention or the inventive concept thereof. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to particular embodiments disclosed herein for carrying it out but that the invention includes all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a unique method for using sound and image clips as alert sounds for a variety of electronic devices.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method for ringing a cellular telephone using actual sound files including sound clips which may comprise real music with human voice various instrument sounds and other sound effects.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a software system which may be integrated into existing cellular telephone hardware for enabling the cellular telephone to access and utilize sound files including clips without the need for extra hardware.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an accessory attachment for cellular telephones and for landline telephones which will enable the telephone to access and utilize sound files including clips.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a security feature for devices capable of receiving and playing multi media files for preventing consumer unauthorized dissemination of such files.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a tracking feature for devices capable of receiving and playing music files for providing performers and writers rights organizations with an accurate method of determining royalty right payments to registered performers and writers.

It is a further object of the present invention to develop a website for browsing and for delivery of sound and image files including clips.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method for selling and buying products associated with existing copyrighted music movies TV shows and other recorded performances.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a delivery method for allowing a user to access browse and download files that is independent of the Internet and does not require a plug in or hand wired connection.

These and other objects advantages and the industrial utility of the present invention will be apparent from a review of the accompanying specification and drawings.

