---

title: Thermally tuneable optical modulator adapted for differential signaling
abstract: An apparatus for optical modulation is provided. The apparatus includes a modulator structure and a heater structure. The modulator structure comprises a ring or disk optical resonator having a closed curvilinear periphery and a pair of oppositely doped semiconductor regions within and/or adjacent to the optical resonator and conformed to modify the optical length of the optical resonator upon application of a bias voltage. The heater structure comprises a relatively resistive annulus of semiconductor material enclosed between an inner disk and an outer annulus of relatively conductive semiconductor material. The inner disk and the outer annulus are adapted as contact regions for a heater activation current. The heater structure is situated within the periphery of the optical resonator such that in operation, at least a portion of the resonator is heated by radial conductive heat flow from the heater structure. The apparatus further includes a substantially annular isolation region of dielectric or relatively resistive semiconductor material interposed between the heater structure and the modulator structure. The isolation region is effective to electrically isolate the bias voltage from the heater activation current.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235065&OS=09235065&RS=09235065
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09235065
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140109
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

One type of optical modulator that has promise for high speed applications such as exascale computing and next generation optical communications is the resonant optical modulator. A resonant optical modulator includes an optical resonator that is typically a waveguiding ring or disk of silicon although other geometries and other materials are not excluded. An input and output optical beam is coupled to the resonator by directing the beam through a waveguide which may e.g. be a rectilinear planar waveguide situated within an evanescent coupling distance of the resonator.

Within a characteristic wavelength band such a modulator is relatively transmissive when light coupled into the modulator excites a resonant mode of the resonator and is less transmissive when it goes out of resonance with the coupled light. The resonance may be controlled by e.g. thermal or electronic modification of the optical velocity within the resonator.

One of the advantages of resonant modulators relative to competing technologies is that they occupy a relatively small volume and as a consequence are conservative as to wafer real estate and as to power demands. One of the challenges in the area of resonant modulators is to maintain the advantage of small volume while accommodating such features as heaters for thermal tuning and such signal isolation as is necessary in order to accommodate differentially driven modulation signals.

We have developed a resonant ring type optical modulator that incorporates a heater for thermal tuning and that further accommodates differentially driven modulation signals.

As will be seen below our new design uses a radial heater and the heater and the modulator each have a dedicated pair of electrical contacts. The use of dedicated contacts allows for either AC or DC coupling of the input signal with the danger of electrical interference between the heater and modulator substantially reduced or even eliminated.

As known in the art it is possible to provide the input signal with AC coupling even when the modulator and heater share a common ground. However by providing a second ground contact in our radial design we minimize the chance that variations in the heater current will shift the ground potential communicated to the modulator. Such a problem is likely when there is a shared ground contact particularly in a chip densely interconnected with very thin wires.

In our radial design the additional contact offers the further possibility of a DC coupled input signal. As a consequence differential signaling is also possible. Differential signaling has many advantages. Among others it offers compatibility with common signaling regimes already in existence. It also offers noise immunity and it is compatible with contemporary CMOS technology operating with internal logic voltage levels below one volt.

In our radial design the center contact of the heater circuit is also screened so that it is electrically isolated from the modulator circuit. In the differential signaling application this means that the outer heater contact can be made to be at the common mode potential thereby minimizing interference with the differential signaling scheme.

Furthermore the heater contacts will conduct heat into the electrical connection network. Having dedicated heater contacts will allow this network to be isolated from the signaling network. While the signaling network will also conduct heat the ability to isolate the two networks will minimize thermal interference between modulators.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention in one aspect is an apparatus for optical modulation including a modulator structure and a heater structure. The modulator structure comprises a ring or disk optical resonator having a closed curvilinear periphery and a pair of oppositely doped semiconductor regions within and or adjacent to the optical resonator and conformed to modify the optical length of the optical resonator upon application of a bias voltage.

The heater structure comprises a relatively resistive annulus of semiconductor material enclosed between an inner disk and an outer annulus of relatively conductive semiconductor material. The inner disk and the outer annulus are adapted as contact regions for a heater activation current. The heater structure is situated within the periphery of the optical resonator such that in operation at least a portion of the resonator is heated by radial conductive heat flow from the heater structure.

The apparatus further includes a substantially annular isolation region of dielectric or relatively resistive semiconductor material interposed between the heater structure and the modulator structure. The isolation region is effective to electrically isolate the bias voltage from the heater activation current.

An embodiment of the invention in a second aspect is a method for modulating an optical signal. The method includes coupling the optical signal to a ring or disk resonator via evanescent optical coupling wherein the resonator describes a closed curvilinear shape having an interior. The method further includes tuning the resonator with heat flowing radially outward from a heating element situated in the interior of the closed curvilinear shape and modifying an optical length of the resonator through application of a bias voltage wherein the bias voltage is applied by differential signaling.

It has long been known that elements that shift the phase of an optical signal in response to an input signal are extremely useful for the control of optical signals both as such and as components of more complex devices. For example filters switches and modulators can all be constructed at least in part from phase shifting elements.

Useful phase shifting elements have been based on various underlying physical phenomena. Among these phenomena is the free carrier effect in semiconductive optical media whereby the refractive index of the optical medium at a given wavelength is dependent on the density of free carriers i.e. of mobile electrons and or holes in the medium.

The fabrication and testing of free carrier modulators has been reported. For example Michael R. Watts et al. Vertical junction silicon microdisk modulators and switches 19 24 Oct. 2011 21989 22003 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference reports a free carrier modulator implemented in silicon in which the application of a forward or reverse bias voltage modulates the carrier density in the region of a pn junction. Changes in the carrier density lead to changes in the refractive index in the optical path which lead in turn to modulation of the phase of the propagating optical signal.

More specifically the device that Watts et al. describes is a resonant free carrier modulator whose resonant frequency exhibits a shift that is proportional to and depends on the overlap between the change of the depletion width in the junction region and the energy distribution of the guided resonant optical mode. The depletion width in turn is controlled by a bias voltage applied across the junction. Accordingly it will be understood that the same electro refractive effect that modulates the refractive index can also be used to shift the resonant frequency of the device thus leading to applications in spectrally selective modulation and filtering.

As an example of how the refractive index can depend on carrier concentrations we note here that Watts et al. citing work by others provides an empirical expression for the refractive index change n in the junction region in silicon at a wavelength of 1550 nm given by where j 1 N is the electron or hole concentration and the parameters A B C and D are provided in the following table 

As an example of how the depletion width can be varied by a voltage applied across the junction we note here that Watts et al. citing the well known depletion approximation provides the following estimate for the depletion width w 

As will be seen the modulator may be driven by differential signaling. Moreover a heater is provided for thermal tuning of the device. are complementary in that provides a full plan view of the device whereas provides a plan view of only one quadrant of the device together with a cross sectional view. Hence it will be useful to consider the two figures concurrently for a full understanding of the device structure.

Turning now to it will be seen that in an exemplary embodiment an intrinsic silicon pedestal region surrounds a p doped modulator contact region which in turn surrounds a sequence of annular regions that are concentric with a central p doped heater contact region . As those skilled in the art will understand reversing the polarities of all the variously doped regions e.g. replacing n type by p type etc. will also produce a functioning device.

The various regions shown in the figure are formed e.g. on a silicon on insulator SOI substrate. The pedestal and the active silicon regions and are exemplarily 50 nm in height and the remaining regions which include waveguide isolation region and regions that constitute the heater structure are exemplarily 230 nm in height. Rings which constitute the modulator structure including the waveguide are each 0.4 m wide in the exemplary embodiment. Rings are exemplarily 0.5 m wide and region is exemplarily 0.5 m in diameter. It will be understood that the widths provided for the respective regions are by way of example and not limitation and that they can be modified according for example to capabilities of the chosen manufacturing process or to spatial design constraints.

Also shown in but not in are input output waveguide which is situated within an evanescent coupling distance of waveguide and arrows indicating the radial flow of heat from the heater.

The modulator can be driven in forward or reverse bias it can be driven with AC coupling and it can be driven with differential signaling.

With further reference to it will be seen that heater signal level region is an ohmic N region doped e.g. to a concentration of 10cm. Adjacent to and surrounding region is heater resistive region which is an N type region doped e.g. to a concentration of 10cm. Adjacent to and surrounding region is heater ground level region which is N doped to e.g. a concentration of 10cm.

Regions constitute the heater which is effectively a resistor enclosed between two low resistance ohmic contact regions. The ohmic regions are connected to electrical contact pads. In operation the contact pads can be driven for example with a DC current or with a pulse width modulated PWM signal. A PWM drive may be advantageous in at least some applications because it permits the average heater current to be varied by varying the pulse rate while maintaining a constant peak applied voltage.

Isolation region is an intrinsic silicon region adjacent to and surrounding region . Region serves to electrically isolate the heater from the signal that drives the modulator. The modulation driver circuit is represented schematically as feature of . In alternate embodiments region may be replaced by a trench that is etched down to the buried oxide BOX layer of the SOI substrate and back filled with silicon oxide. Such an alternative could provide greater electrical isolation but because it would also be more thermally isolative than the intrinsic silicon embodiment it would also tend to decrease the heater efficiency.

Regions constitute a p i n modulator structure in which waveguide of intrinsic silicon is bounded on one side by an N type region and on the other side by a p type region so that regions operate collectively as a p i n diode when driven by way of the respective contact regions and . In other embodiments waveguide can be doped half p type and half n type as is known in the art.

Modulator N contact region which is adjacent to and surrounds region is ohmically N doped to e.g. a concentration of 10cm. Region provides electrical contact to the N type side of the modulator. In various operative scenarios region may be grounded for operation in forward bias it may receive the positive voltage signal for operation in reverse bias or it may receive alternate signal input for AC coupled operation.

When driven by differential signaling region can be DC coupled with region . DC coupling will be better understood with reference to modulator driver of which has been drawn as a pedagogic aid to illustrate one example of differential signaling. As shown in the figure each of the two differential signal inputs S and is toggled between a signal level and a common voltage level COM. In DC coupling regions and share the same common mode as indicated in the figure.

It is noteworthy that region is conformed as a ring because the analogous structure in earlier designs has been disk shaped.

In the exemplary embodiment region adjacent to and surrounding region is the inner diode region. It is N doped to an exemplary concentration of 10cm. Region adjacent to and surrounding waveguide is the outer diode region. It is P doped to an exemplary concentration of 10cm.

Modulator P contact region is adjacent to and surrounds region . Region is ohmically P doped to an exemplary concentration of 10cm. Although region has been drawn with a rectangular outline such a shape is merely illustrative and subject to variation as design constraints might dictate. The offset distance between the outer edge of region and the outer edge of region is desirably great enough to accommodate a metal contact to be deposited on region and great enough so that the presence of such a metal contact does not interfere with the optical mode guided within waveguide .

In alternate embodiments P modulator contact region can be formed as a raised silicon region or N modulator contact region can be formed as a silicon region lowered by etching.

Those skilled in the art will understand that any of various metallization patterns can be used to effectuate electrical contact to the heater and modulator contact regions. One possible contacting strategy is illustrated in . As seen in the figure first level metallization lines and make contact with region first level metallization lines make contact with region first level metallization line makes contact with region and contact pads and make contact with region . As shown in the figure each metallization line makes contact with its respective contact region by way of one or more vias . In some variations of the illustrative metallization pattern lines connecting to a common contact region may be merged. Vias may likewise be merged.

Numerous variations of the configuration illustrated in may be implemented without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. One exemplary variation is illustrated in . The elements identified in by the reference numerals and are analogous in function and similar in width and height to the respective elements and of . As seen in the heater assembly although still a concentric structure is no longer concentric with the modulator structure . Instead the heater assembly has been laterally shifted to a position still lying within the ring defined by waveguide but farther from the driving electronics not shown and nearer waveguide . Modulator structure describes a semicircular arc and N modulator contact region likewise describes a semicircular arc.

The embodiments described here and others are fabricable by CMOS fabrication techniques that are well known to those skilled in the art and need not be described here in detail. Briefly according to one exemplary process flow a base SOI wafer is patterned and etched to define the waveguide heater and contact regions. The diode contact and heater regions are doped by ion implantation. An oxide layer is then deposited over the entire structure. Vias for electrical contact are then formed by patterning the oxide layer etching the via holes in the oxide and depositing contact metal in the via holes. Standard techniques are then used to form such interconnect layers as are required through patterning etching and deposition of metal and oxide layers.

In the example provided by the composite structure consisting of the heater structure the isolation region and regions of the modulator structure has an outer diameter of 3.45 m. It will generally be possible to provide such a structure with an outer diameter of 10 m or less and in some implementation as little as 4 m or even less. As noted above the offset distance between the outer edge of region and the outer edge of region is desirably great enough to accommodate a metal contact to be deposited on region and great enough so that the presence of such a metal contact does not interfere with the optical mode guided within waveguide . In some implementations it will be possible to satisfy such constraints in a composite structure consisting of all of regions that fits within a footprint having a maximum lateral dimension that is 10 m or less.

It was noted above that the modulator can be driven by differential signaling. is provided as a pedagogical aid to afford a better understanding of what is meant by differential signaling. Shown in the figure is a pair of traces of signal voltage versus time respectively representing a pulse train applied to a principal signal input S and a corresponding inverted pulse train applied to a complementary signal input . Each pulse train is seen to oscillate about an intermediate voltage that has been denominated the common voltage level COM. It should be understood that in practice COM may be a floating voltage level.

We assume for purposes of illustration that each pulse train alternates between a high level that is 0.25V above COM and a low level that is 0.25V below COM. We now consider the differential voltage S S between the respective signal inputs. In time interval A of the figure the differential voltage Swill be 0.5V. Conversely in time interval B the differential voltage Swill be 0.5V. Hence neglecting parasitic voltage losses the total voltage swing S Sprovided by the drive circuit will be 1.0V.

All of the regions shown in are formed in a silicon layer exemplarily 230 nm in height. Because of the uniform height the optical mode is subject to less lateral confinement than it is in e.g. the device of . As a consequence the optical behavior of the device is more characteristic of a disk resonator than of a ring resonator.

Regions are exemplarily 0.5 m wide. Region is exemplarily 0.5 m wide at its base portion and 0.25 m wide in its upper portion. Region is exemplarily 0.25 m wide. The dimensions shown are not meant to be limiting but instead are subject to variation. In total the structure shown as measured by the outer diameter of region will typically be in the range 4 10 m.

