---

title: Medical information display systems and methods
abstract: A computer implemented method of displaying a virtual patient chart. The method includes receiving data relating to a patient and generating, using a processor, a graphic representing at least one attribute related to a characteristic of the patient, wherein the generating uses a plurality of consistent visual modification rules that convey additional information to the graphic. The method also includes displaying the graphic on a virtual patient chart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613445&OS=09613445&RS=09613445
owner: MediVu, Inc.
number: 09613445
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
The instant application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 782 947 filed Mar. 14 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 783 349 filed Mar. 14 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 782 371 filed Mar. 14 2013.

The human brain processes visual images approximately 60 000 times faster than alphanumeric data. In healthcare environments caregivers routinely pore through large amounts of data presented in alphanumeric format which is a time consuming process. Also it is often difficult to correlate significant information from one report to the next and time constraints exist that may result in increased stress and may increase the chances of an error being made by a caregiver.

In a first aspect embodiments of the invention provide a computer implemented method of displaying a virtual patient chart. The method includes receiving data relating to a patient and generating using a processor a graphic representing at least one attribute related to a characteristic of the patient wherein the generating uses a plurality of consistent visual modification rules that convey additional information to the graphic. The method also includes displaying the graphic on a virtual patient chart.

In another aspect embodiments of the invention provide a system. The system includes a database and a visual language engine in communication with the database the visual language engine configured to receive data relating to a patient from a medical system generate a graphic representing at least one attribute related to a characteristic of the patient wherein generating uses a plurality of consistent visual modification rules that convey additional information to the graphic add the graphic to a virtual patient chart and transmit the virtual patient chart to a display device.

In a further aspect embodiments of the invention provide an apparatus. The apparatus includes means for receiving data relating to a patient means for generating a graphic representing at least one attribute related to a characteristic of the patient wherein the generating uses a plurality of consistent visual modification rules that convey additional information to the graphic and means for displaying the graphic on a virtual patient chart.

In another aspect embodiments of the invention are directed to a non transitory computer readable medium including software for causing a processor to 

generate a graphic representing at least one attribute related to a characteristic of the patient wherein the generating uses a plurality of consistent visual modification rules that convey additional information to the graphic and

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods systems and devices for providing actionable patient information to users such as caregivers in an easy to grasp format to improve the quality of care and enhanced profitability. Embodiments are also directed to methods systems and devices for displaying actionable patient information using a visual language referred to as disotypes to intuitively and accurately display large amounts of real time data related to the individual medical characteristics of a patient.

Various embodiments are directed to methods systems and devices for presenting patient medical information in a standard way that reduces comprehension requirements and delivers more information per disotype on for example an information display screen. Embodiments also include methods systems and devices for displaying information in the same visual field so that decisions and subsequent actions may be performed without changing screens to reduce cognitive load. Embodiments include displaying information organized by meaningful relationships to provide cognitive support to the user. Various embodiments are directed to methods systems and devices for displaying patient status using disotypes to inform the user for example at a glance of any specific situational data that could impact the user s or a caregiver s decision making.

In display technologies the cognitive strengths and weaknesses of the human mind may be taken into account such that visualization techniques exploit cognitive strengths to reduce cognitive loading so that higher level problem solving skills may be used more effectively. For example the human brain has the ability to rapidly differentiate and process meanings for a specified set of shapes and colors. Thus if a visualization technique can effectively present data utilizing shapes and colors then the cognitive loading required between seeing and understanding data is reduced.

Many aspects of the human visual processing system are automatic and other tasks can be performed at the same time because automation does not require use of conscious thought. In contrast when interpreting presented data much uninterrupted attention must be applied when translating the data into thoughts mostly conscious in nature which reduces any simultaneous problem solving capacity. In various embodiments of the present invention visualization techniques that use a system of graphics are presented. Such techniques remove the interpretation step of processing data such that the conscious thinking capability of the display operator can be applied directly to automatically understanding the visual representation of the data as it is being viewed.

Automatic visual processing may take place through preattentive vision which refers to those visual operations that can be performed prior to focusing attention on any particular region of an image. This ability allows users to perform certain types of visual analyses rapidly and accurately. This can include detection of specific elements with unique characteristics or patterns.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods and systems for visual language display that use dynamic isotypes referred to herein as DI or disotypes to display large amounts of real time data or attributes related to the individual medical characteristics of a patient. In various embodiments disotypes are complete graphics that are comprised of various affixes that are rendered in whole or in part based on the dimensional metrics that the graphic is designed to convey. In various embodiments the disotypes are positioned on a virtual chart or shield which acts to utilize the visual image processing capabilities of the brain.

Unlike with many visual paradigms that may map shapes colors and sizes to singular metrics with changing rules with no physical mapping of the image to the metric that it represents disotypes are an embodiment of a visual language. As a language in various embodiments disotypes employ logic and real world references to convey process and assign meaning. Semantics may be used to express how meaning is inferred from the disotypes analogous to words and sentences in the English language .

In various embodiments disotypes have a system of rules known as grammar that govern the way disotypes communicate their intended meanings and they may include morphology the formation and composition of disotypes which may be analogous to the formation and composition of words in the English language and syntax the formation and composition of phrases and overall meaning from the disotypes which may be analogous to forming a sentence in the English language . In linguistics morphology is the identification analysis and description of the structure of a given language s morphemes and other linguistic units such as stems base words and affixes.

In various embodiments the lexicon for the visual language consists of disotypes and bound morphemes sub disotypes which are the elements of the language that can t stand alone like affixes for example. An affix is a morpheme or sub disotype that is attached to a base disotype or stem to form or express more meaning for that disotype. Placing several related disotypes together may allow the formation of an overall thought or story that conveys significant meaning to the reader of the language. A specific dialect of the language is specific to a knowledge domain. For example a medial dialect is described herein in various embodiments.

As in the English language the disotype is the main unit of the visual language syntax and disotypes may be related to other disotypes by rules grammars . Visual language users recognize these relations from their tacit knowledge of rules of disotype formation and they may infer intuitively that if a sub disotype that is represented by a blue circle provides the meaning of on order for the disotype that represents medications then if a blue circle sub disotype is also applied to the disotype that represents laboratory tests then that would mean that the lab test is on order due to the consistency of the semantics of the language.

In general the grammars that represent the morphology of the language are what allow the human brain to understand that language and to be able to read it without having to consciously think about the words that make up the language. The rules define specific patterns or regularities in the way disotypes are formed from smaller units in the language as well as how those smaller units interact to form a larger meaning. Words in a language are designed to represent a unit of meaning and in a visual language they represent a metric or a specific monitored thing or characteristic. The metrics or things or characteristics may have multidimensional attributes i.e information that actively impacts the metric or thing or characteristic and which convey a greater meaning to the metric or thing or characteristic. For example if the thing is the concept of Labs in the medical environment there may be multiple associated attributes for Labs such as 1 are there labs on order 2 are any labs that were ordered complete yet 3 are any of the complete labs normal or abnormal 4 is there any history behind the labs 5 is the lab processing running behind and 6 are any of the labs ordered for immediate turnaround Thus for this single thing called Labs there may be six dimensions of data that are associated with Labs that provide far greater meaning for the current status of Labs and current information visualization technologies which are not based on language concepts cannot display those multiple dimensions as a single word. Also such techniques cannot place several of those words each with multidimensional attributes associated with the base into an overall visual structure that represents sentences and that together tell an overall story of the underlying metrics.

In various embodiments the dynamic attributes associated with the DI allow for more information to be displayed about that patient including status and metrics. Embodiments allow a user such as a caregiver to more rapidly process and correlate large volumes of data regarding all of their patient s conditions and better determine priorities.

It can be understood that the user of the methods and systems described herein according to various embodiments may be any type of healthcare professional or healthcare administrator or clerical worker. Non limiting examples healthcare professionals are caregivers such as nurses and doctors. Although the following description uses examples such as laboratory orders prescription orders etc. in describing various embodiments it should be understood that the teachings of such embodiments should not be limited to such examples and embodiments of the invention are applicable to any type of information in the healthcare and other fields.

It can be understood that although various aspects of the invention are described in connection with a hospital environment the teachings of the embodiments described herein may be utilized in any acute sub acute or ambulatory care environment such as hospitals long term care facilities assisted living facilities in home patient care skilled nursing facilities rehabilitation facilities physician offices clinics outpatient surgery centers nursing homes laboratories etc.

In various embodiments dynamic disotypes utilize a consistent set of visual modification rules that convey additional meaning to the disotypes. When the rules are combined with the image processing power of the human brain a user may reach conclusions about patient status relatively quicker than reading for example alphanumeric based data thereby relieving stress reducing time constraints errors and costs and improving the quality of patient care. Various embodiments allow for a user to view multiple patients at the same time and to make decisions not only on a per patient basis but also for multiple patients.

In various embodiments disotypes may include affixes called sub disotypes that may be displayed with the base or stem disotype. For example gender disotypes show two pieces of information the gender of the patient and the general age grouping of the patient. As illustrated in a gender disotype uses the standard for the graphical representation for male and female. The disotype also includes a further level of information the age group of the patient. In various embodiments the disotype affixes the visual affix for the stem that creates a different or richer meaning for age grouping may be pediatric adolescent and senior and adult may be represented by having no disotype affixes affix displayed. The gender disotype shown in instantly shows the user that the patient is a male child in his adolescence.

In various embodiments the communication interface of the present invention uses concepts behavior appearance and layout consistently to promote ease of use and a reduction in training requirements. Once a specific pattern in the way in which colors and graphics are utilized is learned by a user that knowledge can be applied throughout thereby reducing ongoing learning and creating a satisfactory comfort level for interaction with the system. Such an arrangement is possible due to the use of rules as described hereinabove. The embodiments hereinbelow illustrate the use of rules to generate patient shields that display disotypes for various medical metrics or characteristics associated with a patient such as lab orders prescription orders etc. As illustrated in such embodiments a specific disotype may be fully represented as a graphic display of affixes. However less than all of the affixes may be rendered in a disotype if the underlying data represented by the disotype is such that only a subset of the affixes affix needed to convey the intended meaning should be displayed.

In various embodiments disotypes may use colors to provide a specific meaning syntax to the graphics. illustrates a color scheme in which each color has a specific meaning. In various embodiments the meaning of each color stays consistent throughout its usage on the shield i.e. the color becomes part of the syntax of the language . In the embodiments illustrated in white means informational green means complete ready and or normal blue means that there is a pending order such as a lab test or medical procedure yellow is cautionary or slightly above or below a normal value and red is a warning and or notification that results are above or below normal values by a certain threshold.

As shown in in various embodiments the gender disotype gives two pieces of information the gender of the patient and the general age grouping of the patient. The disotype uses the standards for the graphical representation for male and female . The gender disotype may be modified with a sub disotype that gives the age grouping. Examples of sub disotypes for age grouping are pediatrics adolescent and senior . The gender disotype may also have affixes that may be displayed with the disotype to give the caregiver more information about the disotype. Example affixes may be observational patient and non process based observational patient. The information may be used for decision making on for example orders potential roommates in a shared room etc.

Prescription and laboratory lab order disotype may be included in the shield to indicate for example outstanding orders completed orders and orders being either normal or abnormal. In various embodiments the user may select a disotype using for example a pointing device such as a mouse or by touching the disotype on a touch screen to drill down or display more information such as a list of all outstanding orders and their status.

As shown in a gray Rx disotype with a blue circle affix may represent that one or more prescription orders are in the system and not yet complete. As soon as one or more of the prescription orders are complete the disotype may be rendered solid green to show that at least one prescription order has been delivered by the pharmacy. Because there may be multiple prescription orders that are not complete at the same time a blue circle may be rendered as an affix of the green disotype as shown in to designate that some of the orders are complete but others are still being filled. The blue circle may also be used as an affix for a laboratory order disotype to show that some lab orders have been completed but others are still outstanding. When all outstanding prescription orders are complete the disotype may be rendered without the blue circle affix and the green Rx disotype displays as shown in . Such color circles affixes are consistently used with other disotype as described herein.

Another affix that may be incorporated into a disotype is the delayed prescription administration affix. In various embodiments such an affix may be used by hospitals that support direct interfacing with prescription delivery and point of care data entry systems. Such systems may allow monitoring of when prescription medications have been administered and when they are due so that delays in time based delivery may be rendered with an affix that is part of the disotype such as for example a clock affix as shown in

For both the lab disotypes and prescription disotypes affixes may also be rendered with the disotype to display more information about the disotype. Examples of affixes are STAT for prescriptions as shown in orders acknowledged order delayed and time based Rx administration .

The orders acknowledged affix first appears when a caregiver administers a prescription to the patient. The user may view a list of all the prescription orders select one or more that have been administered and acknowledge them. When orders are acknowledged those orders no longer affect the prescription disotype colors. Any outstanding orders that have not yet been acknowledged may still impact the colors. In various embodiments the orders that have been acknowledged show an arrow with the Rx as shown in . The arrow informs the user that orders have been acknowledged and that if they desire to view the acknowledged orders they may select the arrow to view a list of orders and their statuses.

In various embodiments the arrow affix may also apply to labs once the lab results have been reviewed the user may select labs they have reviewed and the lab disotype will show that orders that have been acknowledged by being rendered with the arrow. If there are no more labs on order and all labs have been acknowledged then the arrow may be rendered on the gray lab disotype as shown in

The order delayed affix may show the user that for the orders currently outstanding Rx lab procedure etc. one or more of the orders is taking longer than average to fulfill. shows the disotype that may be used when one or more lab orders are delayed. The disotype uses a yellow circle affix to indicate that the order type that is delayed. The information may help caregivers remain cognizant of delays that may require further attention.

The shield illustrated in shows a core measure disotype that indicates to the user that the patient has a diagnostic code that is being measured under the Hospital Quality Alliance HQA . No disotypes are displayed when the diagnostic code is not one that is being measured by the HQA. If active the disotype is white because the communication is informative. illustrates six core measures that may be used according to various embodiments. In various embodiments when a user views the disotypes the user may select the disotype to view a hospital approved list of measures.

Referring to length of stay LOS disotype and discharge disotype may be displayed on a shield . The user may compare the LOS disotype to the average LOS for a specific diagnostic code so that the user may see if the patient is far enough along in their treatment as compared to the average remaining time left on the LOS disotype . Using the discharge disotype the user can see that based on the amount of time left all of the appropriate steps necessary to release the patient have been completed ensuring no delays for the patient s discharge.

For the LOS countdown timer the LOS disotype represents the average LOS for a diagnostic code and a second number is a timer . Although the time indications herein are represented in hours it may be understood that the time disotypes may be represented in any format using any combination of for example days hours and minutes.

As illustrated in when the timer counts down to zero it becomes a count up timer with the bar turning red to indicate that the average LOS has been exceeded. The discharge disotype represents the total hours from time of order to the scheduled discharge and a second number is a timer . In various embodiments the timer is hidden until a discharge order is issued.

Knowing the procedures that are on order may help a user such as a caregiver in managing the workflow surrounding the patient. For example knowing that surgery or a significant i.e. time consuming test is scheduled may call for changes in the order and timing of treatments preparations for the patient. Situation awareness of these items may extend the decision making capabilities of the caregivers and allow them to be more efficient and more prepared in the management of the overall care of the patient.

If it is known that the patient is out of the room a rectangle around the procedure notification area may turn yellow as shown in . In various embodiments an electronic patient movement system may communicate information to the system that informs the system that the patient has been moved from the room for a procedure. In various embodiments procedures that take a significant amount of time to check in a patient e.g. surgery physical therapy etc. may communicate to the system that the patient is checking in at the location of the procedure. In various embodiments a radio frequency RF tag may be placed on the patient and as the patient moves about the hospital the system is notified of the movement and displayed on the shield.

In the shields shown in a yellow outline denotes that the patient is out of the room. In the patient has a PT order and thus is most likely in that procedure. In there is a nuclear test on order and an other test that is complete. The user may select the other test at any time to see the details of the order to determine what the actual test is. Because the patient is out of the room it can be deduced that their location would be one of the two labs that were ordered. In various embodiments the background of the procedure location where the patient is turns white to indicate that the patient is currently having the procedure performed.

In various embodiments the area may allow for more accurate searches to determine the location of a misplaced chart when a patient returns to their room due to the fact that the area displays the possible prior locations of the patient.

In various embodiments the area may display up to six procedure type disotypes. The disotypes may represent a procedure type so that if there are multiple X Ray procedures on order only one X Ray disotype shows up and a drill down on the disotype shows all of the procedures on order and their current results. If more than six procedure types are ordered an ellipse disotype may be displayed that allows the user to see that there are more types ordered so that the user may select the shield to view all active procedure orders for the patient.

In various embodiments the procedure notification area supports two affixes the STAT affix and the delayed affix. As in the lab and prescription cases described hereinabove the STAT affix may use an exclamation point as shown in

In various embodiments disotypes represent yes no state information e.g. is the patient on oxygen is the patient diabetic is the patient in isolation In various embodiments disotypes may display more information using colors or affixes to the disotype. An example of a disotype that uses color for more information is the vitals status disotype shown in . The vitals status disotype informs the user of the current status of the patient s vital signs. If the patient s vital signs are within the normal healthy range the disotype may be green. If the status of the patient s vital signs is not known the disotype may be white not shown . If the patient s vital signs are mildly above or below normal readings the disotype may turn yellow and the disotype may turn red if the vital signs are significantly above or below normal readings. The user may get the current details of the various vital readings by selecting the disotype and can immediately see which patients have readings that are not normal as well as how far out of normal they are which could impact decisions being made regarding particular patients.

Another example is the diet disotype shown in . A plain apple informs the user that there is some form of diet restriction applied to the patient. However in various embodiments there may be affixes for the disotype. For an NPO nothing by mouth order a red slash may be displayed through the apple . If there is a caffeine restriction a cup with a null may be displayed over the apple . Another example is a fall risk disotype shown in which may be white for a patient with a fall risk and may be yellow for a high risk fall patient . shows various patient status disotypes in a patient status area.

As shown in patient rooms are identified on the screen by room number starting with room right side and ending with room above room . In the example illustrated in rooms can be single rooms such as as indicated by the 1 added to the room number or double rooms such as indicated by 1 and 2 to show which bed each particular patient occupies in the room. The displayed information also includes patient names shown above the patient shields and the nurse assigned to each patient is displayed below the shield. For example room upper left corner is a single room the patient s name is Thune and nurse Lynn is assigned to the patient. When two or more patients have the same name the names may be highlighted in for example yellow. The information on the display screen shows at a glance how many rooms are filled empty who is in each room and who is assigned to each patient.

For each patient one or more disotypes may be displayed as one visual shield as illustrated in . The patient data may be extracted in real time from the underlying medical information system.

In various embodiments the underlying data are available by selecting e.g. by clicking or touching the disotype which drills down to the data to create a visual navigation to the underlying data. is a screen shot illustrating detail on nurse selection with patients sorted by nurse assignment. In the illustrated example the nurse selected is Amy D. as shown by the highlight of the nurse s name and the patients assigned to Amy include the patients in rooms and . The shields of the patients assigned to Amy may remain active and those not assigned to Amy may be faded shown in grayscale in . The selection of a nurse or a technician and the shields corresponding to the selection may be displayed on for example a touch screen display. In various embodiments the screen display remains static until another area of the screen is touched or selected.

In various embodiments the display screen may be used to display patient information. is a screen shot illustrating detail on patient demographic information. In this example the demographic information for Levin in room includes name address date of birth attending physician name date admitted and a reason code. The reason code displays the reason the patient was admitted to the hospital. The drop down may also show disotypes such as prescriptions and labs that may be selected from the demographic screen. The demographic information may be displayed until the user closes the screen by selecting a close icon or an x. 

In various embodiments patient information may be sorted and or filtered for for example caregiver workflow or to focus on specific elements of the information such as LOS diagnostic code lab results etc. For doctors their patients may be scattered all over a hospital campus in which case some type of grid display may be a more effective way for them to understand the status of all of their patients at a glance. As shown in the embodiment illustrated in the patient shields are not displayed according to the floor plan but rather each patient shield is positioned next to the previous one on the screen aligned in rows and columns.

In various embodiments the patient shields are not initially displayed in any specific order. The patient shields may be sorted based on patient name diagnostic code assigned doctor type of labs on order etc. Thus sorting and filtering may be performed on any piece of information associated with the patient shield. The sort criteria may be textual information such as patient name assigned doctor DRG code etc. or visual information such as labs on order procedures on order length of stay LOS etc.

In the embodiment illustrated in patients may be viewed regardless of their location within a facility. The shields may include a title field below the patient shield which may be populated with the patient s name or may be populated with other information such as building room numbers patient codes diagnostic codes etc. which may be definable by the user.

As shown in a user may sort the patient shields according to any information associated with the patient shields. For example the user may sort based on time remaining in the length of stay LOS field. As shown a magnifying glass icon when selected may show a drop down list of sort and filter criteria and the user may select the sort filter of choice. The sort and filter menu illustrated in is for illustration only and should not be construed as a limitation of the sort and filter criteria that may be available for selection. The result of the sort is shown in where the Charts are sorted and displayed based on the LOS time remaining.

In the patients that have exceeded the Average Length of Stay ALOS for their diagnostic code are shown at . The user may choose to filter to the patients that have exceeded their ALOS by selecting the appropriate item from the filter menu for example selecting Filter LOS. In the patient shields are filtered to the patients whose ALOS has been exceeded. Sorting helps all types of users and caregivers to monitor and respond to different types of situations at a glance for for example case management intercession.

According to an embodiment detail or drill down navigation may be available. In the example shown in the user may select a vitals table for a specific patient which shows the highest lowest average and current reading for each of pulse blood pressure respiration rate and temperature.

Embodiments provide many benefits to the viewer. For example users such as a caregiver and or physician may focus on only their patients because only those patients that are assigned to that person may be displayed. The user may then filter or sort those patients displayed based on for example diagnostic codes LOS etc. to provide comparative associations between patients with similar attributes based on the sort and or filter. For example a user may filter out all but pneumonia patients view the vitals and labs and based on that determine the priority and aggressiveness of the treatment programs for each of those patients noting which patients are in a worse condition than the others and focus on them first.

Using the methods and systems of the present invention a user such as a physician may examine multiple campuses to determine based on DRG and treatment results if a specific area of the hospital is having more success for a specific DRG than others and the user may drill down capabilities to determine what treatment options were different if any. An embodiment of a system in which the processes of embodiments of the present invention may be used is illustrated in . As illustrated in a visual language engine VLE may include virtual machines e.g. Java virtual machines that host event driven core EDC instances . The EDC instances may perform two functions core services and the functions of modules and . EDC services are services that may be directly called from a module and and may include clients and servers for transmission control protocol secure socket layer TCP SSL hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and web sockets services to access an event bus timers buffers flow control file system access shared maps and sets logging access configuration servers e.g. Sockjs node and deploying and undeploying EDC instances . Various of the other functionality of the system may be provided by the modules and . The EDC instances may contain two subsystems a worker subsystem and an event loop subsystem . The subsystems may host the various modules within the system . The event loop subsystems may create a thread to execute non blocking modules i.e. modules that do not block other modules from executing . In various cases a module may need to do something either computationally expensive or that might block such as connecting to a database e.g. as may be the case of a persistence manager module in the system which reads and writes to a persistence store . In such a case the worker subsystem may be created and executed by a background thread pool.

Various modules may be utilized within the VLE including the persistence manager module a data normalization aggregation module an FTP TCP listener module a web services module an HTTP web socket server module and a transformative visualization engine module . The modules and may interact through the event bus to deliver functionality to transform data from medical systems and into a visual language for display on various output display devices .

The VLE may be implemented on any type of computing device such as for example a server. The persistence store may be any type of volatile or non volatile memory such as a cache memory. Domain specific knowledge held within the persistence store may be used by the VLE as described hereinbelow. The VLE may be in communication with various systems including one or more information systems such as for example electronic medical records systems hospital information systems electronic health record systems etc. The VLE may also be in communication with one or more imaging systems such as for example digital imaging and communication in medicine DICOM systems picture archiving systems etc. The VLE may also be in communication with one or more financial and billing systems one or more prescription management systems and one or more laboratory systems . The VLE may also be in communication with one or more hospital systems such as for example bed management systems scheduling systems single sign on SSO systems communication messaging systems etc. The VLE may also be in communication with one or more molecular nuclear and pathology lab systems .

The systems and may be in communication with the VLE via any type of network that uses for example health level 7 HL7 an application programming interface API file transfer protocol FTP transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP etc. The systems and may be in communication with the VLE via one or more information systems such as for example electronic medical records systems hospital information systems electronic health record systems etc.

The VLE may be in communication with devices which may display the medical dialect of the visual language as described in connection with various embodiments herein. The devices may be any type of device that is capable of displaying such visual language such as for example handheld devices such as smartphones and tablet computers wearable devices such as smart watches and glasses type devices fixed displays such as desktop workstations and wall mounted monitors displays that are integral with equipment such as x ray machines portable devices such as mobile workstations and holographic and head up display devices.

The VLE may utilize the modules and to convert raw atomic data i.e. the lowest level of detail about a patient system or piece of equipment that provides the base data for data transformations and aggregations within the system from the various medical systems and into the visual language described herein in connection with various embodiments. Each system and may produce atomic data that by itself cannot be transformed into the visual language and therefore it may be desirable to normalize and aggregate the data into the persistence store for further processing. Intake services modules such as an FTP TCP listeners module the web services module and the HTTP web socket server module pathway not shown in drawing may listen for changes on the network. The atomic data may also be received in various embodiments via a web rest service call out module not shown that may use API calls to a centralized information system such as the persistence manager to retrieve atomic data. Such an embodiment may also allow for the retrieval of semi and fully aggregated data that was normalized and aggregated within for example the persistence manager .

In various embodiments as data are received by the intake modules and the data may be pushed onto the event bus so that processing modules that are listening on the event bus may receive the data for further processing. In such an embodiment the data that was pushed to the bus by the intake service modules and are retrieved by the data normalization and aggregation module . The module may use the domain knowledge to determine how the atomic data need to be normalized and then aggregated into a form that fuses the atomic data into aggregate data elements based on the domain knowledge and sent back to the event bus for further processing. Normalization rules may include ensuring that the units of the atomic data are the same that any identification of the specific data elements is mapped to a common identifier based on rules from the domain knowledge that define the mapping from the atomic data to the larger data structures that may be utilized to fuse the atomic data into an aggregate data record that may be transformed into the visual language. As the data normalization aggregation module processes the data events it receives it may make service calls via the event bus to the persistence manager module which may retrieve any normalization and aggregation rules from the domain knowledge as well as any other units of information that may have already been processed by the data normalization aggregation module so that a higher level of fusion may continue with the construction of the aggregate data record. Once finished with the retrieval of the domain knowledge and any partial or whole aggregate data records the current atomic data may be fused with the aggregate data record by the data normalization aggregation module and pushed back onto the event bus for the persistence manager module to process and persist into the persistence store . Such processing may continue every time new atomic data are sent in via the medical systems and . Each time an aggregate data record is updated and placed on the event bus other modules may listen for that event to do further processing. One embodiment includes validation modules that semantically check the aggregation to ensure the validity of the data. Another embodiment may include validation modules that perform lookups into other database systems to fill in missing information driven by keys within the data mapped via the domain knowledge the systems and for lookups. For example the RX management system may only send out a code for a specific medicine type and the validation module may use the code to look up the full name of the medicine from a drug database and validate semantic elements of the aggregate data record to prevent errors in the prescription order process so that the medicine ordered correlates with a specific DRG code and if not a flag may be set in the aggregate data record which may be used by the visual language to add a morpheme to be visualized as a warning indication within a disotype. It can be understood that various validation techniques may be utilized to validate the accuracy and integrity of the data moving through the system.

In various embodiments each time the data normalization aggregation module updates an aggregate data record and places it on the event bus the transformative visualization engine which may also be subscribed to such types of events may retrieve the aggregate data record from the event bus and either use an API call via the event bus to access the persistence manager module to retrieve the domain knowledge about the visual language dialect as well as other information surrounding the aggregate data record so that it can then apply the grammar rules along with the morphology and the syntax of the visual language to create the visual language elements that will be formulated and sent to the display devices .

It should be noted that in various embodiments subject matter experts are utilized in creating a specific visual language dialect which is then translated into the domain knowledge which may then be utilized by the transformative visualization engine TVE to map the aggregate data records to the visual language. The TVE may use three levels of the language construction words disotypes which are put together to create sentences a shield or graphic layout and to tell a story provide situational awareness by combining multiple sentences together to form a display with multiple shields with each shield containing multiple disotypes and each disotype made up of various affixes to express the multidimensional data within a single disotype. As described herein in connection with various embodiments the disotypes may be formed by a set of descriptive rules and visual vectors that represent both the root concept the stem and the vectors that make up the various affixes that add meaning about various states statuses and or conditions of that root concept. This may be matched with a set of rules that define how the aggregate data record is mapped to the root concept as well as the affixes that convey the extra semantic meaning of the supporting root concept affixes. This may be stored within the domain knowledge so that the TVE may apply polyglot transformations on the aggregate data record to generate the appropriate disotype with the stem and appropriate affixes expressed correctly within the visual language. The disotype may be pushed to the event bus so that the display devices may then transfer the vector information to the localized displays and render them. The persistence manager module may also persist the disotype raw vector form so that display devices that do not have a push capability to receive the data directly may utilize other retrieval mechanisms such as for example via HTTP calls to the HTTP web socket server module direct access to the event bus or through web service calls to the web service module . Data may be pulled or pushed to the display devices depending on the specifics of the visualization capabilities of that device. It can be understood that other delivery methods such as hybrid delivery methods may be used to transfer the visual language vector information to the display devices .

Embodiments of the invention may be used with or incorporated in a computer system that may be a standalone unit or include one or more remote terminals or devices in communication with a central computer via a network such as for example the Internet or an intranet. As such the computer or processor and related components described herein may be a portion of a local computer system or a remote computer or an on line system or combinations thereof. The database and software described herein may be stored in computer internal memory or in a non transitory computer readable medium.

In another aspect the invention may be implemented as a non transitory computer readable medium containing software for causing a computer or computer system to perform the method described above. The software can include various modules that are used to enable a processor and a user interface to perform the methods described herein.

Although embodiments have been described herein in the healthcare environment it can be understood that embodiments of the invention may be used to display and manage information in the transportation mining energy human and social services construction health insurance project performance financial cargo tracking and dispatch aircraft maintenance student performance monitoring supply chain management shipping industrial equipment call center management vehicle sales law enforcement and information technology fields.

While the invention has been described disclosed illustrated and shown in various terms of certain embodiments or modifications which it has presumed in practice the scope of the invention is not intended to be nor should it be deemed to be limited thereby and such other modifications or embodiments as may be suggested by the teachings herein are particularly reserved especially as they fall within the breadth and scope of the claims here appended.

Embodiments of the invention may be used with or incorporated in a computer system that may be a standalone unit or include one or more remote terminals or devices in communication with a central computer via a network such as for example the Internet or an intranet. As such the computer or processor and related components described herein may be a portion of a local computer system or a remote computer or an on line system or combinations thereof. The database and software described herein may be stored in computer internal memory or in a non transitory computer readable medium.

In another aspect the invention may be implemented as a non transitory computer readable medium containing software for causing a computer or computer system to perform the method described above. The software can include various modules that are used to enable a processor and a user interface to perform the methods described herein.

Although embodiments have been described herein in the healthcare environment it can be understood that embodiments of the invention may be used to display and manage information in the transportation mining energy human and social services construction health insurance project performance financial cargo tracking and dispatch aircraft maintenance student performance monitoring supply chain management shipping industrial equipment call center management vehicle sales law enforcement and information technology fields.

While the invention has been described disclosed illustrated and shown in various terms of certain embodiments or modifications which it has presumed in practice the scope of the invention is not intended to be nor should it be deemed to be limited thereby and such other modifications or embodiments as may be suggested by the teachings herein are particularly reserved especially as they fall within the breadth and scope of the claims here appended.

