---

title: Providing an answer to a question from a social network site using a separate messaging site
abstract: A question is received on a first social network site from a first user. The question is sent to a second user of a second social network site who receives the question from the second social network site. The first social network site receives an answer to the question from the second user via the second social network site and provides the answer to the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09237123&OS=09237123&RS=09237123
owner: YP LLC
number: 09237123
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 781 589 filed on Feb. 28 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 702 114 filed on Feb. 8 2010 the entire disclosures of which are each incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

At least some embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to the field of electronic messaging and more particularly but not limited to providing an answer in response to a question from a user of a social network site in which the question is sent to another person using a messaging site e.g. the Twitter service that is different from the social network site.

The Internet provides a convenient way to interact by electronic communications and to request various types of information. People can use the Internet to communicate with each other share information and organize virtual communities e.g. a social network .

A social network is typically a social structure in which a network of nodes can be used to represent a network of individuals or organizations and the connections between the nodes in the network represent the direct social connections Web sites can be used to register the social connections of members of a social network and provide features such as automatic address book updates viewable profiles services to introduce members to each other to make new social connections etc. Some social networks are organized around business connections while other social networks are organized around common personal interests.

One way of interacting on the Internet is by use of the Twitter service which is a social networking service that lets its users send and read messages known as tweets. Tweets are text based messages of up to 140 characters that are delivered to the user s subscribers who are known as followers . Users are able to send and receive tweets via the Twitter website. Users can restrict delivery to those in their circle of friends or by default allow open access. Users are able to follow lists of authors instead of merely following individual authors.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Systems and methods to provide an answer in response to a question from a user of a social network site in which the question is sent to another person using a messaging site e.g. the Twitter service that is different from the social network site are described herein. The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

In one embodiment a method implemented in a data processing system includes receiving on a first social network site a question from a first user that is a member of the first social network site. The question is then sent from the first social network site to a second user who is a member of a second social network site. The second user receives the question in a message from the second social network site. Then the first social network site receives an answer to the question from the second user via the second social network site. Finally the answer is provided to the first user from the first social network site. This embodiment permits the first user to for example send a series of questions to the second user and receive answers even though the second user is not a member of the first social network site.

In another embodiment a method implemented in a data processing system includes receiving a question or information request from a user of a social network. The request includes a location. The data for a plurality of other users on the social network is searched. Each of the other users is associated e.g. in a database on one or more storage devices with prior activity on the network. The searching is performed to identify an other user having prior activity related to a subject matter of the information request. A question is formed based on the information request and the question is directed to the identified other user. An answer to the question is received from the other user and the answer is provided to the user e.g. on a web page on the social network site or in an electronic communication such as an email . In some embodiments the question may be sent to other users via a second social network site as described above.

At least one embodiment of the disclosure may use information and or user data content shared among the users of an online social network to assist in providing the answer. The use of the information shared through the social network allows the system to direct answers to other users in an automated and or personalized way. The preferences of the users and the recommendations of their friends in the social network may be considered in directing questions to other users and or in providing the answer.

In one embodiment the social network includes a database that contains data representing the relations between a set of persons i.e. a user seeking an answer and other users . In a social network a person or member may be represented by a node and a direct relation between two members is represented by a connection. After the direct relations between members are specified the database can be used to determine the relations between members that are indirectly connected. For example the member may identify a friend s friend via the service of the database.

In one embodiment the number of connections along the shortest path in the social network between two members is considered the degree of separation between the two members. There may be more than one shortest path between the two members.

In one embodiment the database of the social network further includes information about the members which are considered the profile data of the members. For example a member may edit his her profile data via the user interface provided by the online social network. The profile data can include various information such as the name of the member the location of the member the personal and or business interests of the member the website of the member the education experiences of the member etc.

In one embodiment at least part of the profile data is public and the public profile data is visible to other members and or non members. In one embodiment the member may specify a setting to selectively classify certain information as private profile data and the access to the private profile data is limited according to a set of rules.

In one embodiment the user data content is shared between friends e.g. within one degree of separation in the social network . In another embodiment the user can specify a social distance such that the user data content is shared by users who are within the specified social distance from the user in the social network. In one embodiment the user can specify different social distance for sharing different user data content.

The online social network site is connected to a data storage facility to store user provided content such as multimedia content location data preference data etc. The multimedia content may be associated with the location data to provide a geographic context of the multimedia content . Location data may be provided for example automatically by from a GPS location device or based on other data that is sent from user terminal .

In the users may use the terminals e.g. . . . to make implicit or explicit recommendations. For example an explicit recommendation would be a favorite provided by a user. An example of implicit recommendations would be data collected automatically by a user terminal that is related to travel by the user. Also user selections into a user terminal although not intended as such by the user can be used as implicit recommendations. As another example the user may also explicitly recommend certain locations and routes with or without additional multimedia content such as a still picture or a video clip taken at a recommended location a text message or a sound clip to introduce the location etc.

In one embodiment the user terminal e.g. . . . can also be used to submit multimedia content e.g. tagged with the location data . For example in one embodiment the user terminal includes a digital still picture camera or a digital video camera. At a transition point the user terminal can be used to create multimedia content for sharing with friends in the online social network. In such an embodiment the multimedia content can be tagged with the location data in an automated way.

Alternatively the multimedia content can be created using a separate device and loaded into the online social network using the user terminal e.g. . . . . The users may manually tag the multimedia content with location data. For example the user terminal can be used to associate the user data content with locations and or routes identified by a GPS device in the user terminal.

Although illustrates an example system implemented in client server architecture embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in various alternative architectures. For example the online social network can be implemented via a peer to peer network of user terminals where the multimedia content and the location data are shared via peer to peer communication connections.

For example certain processing may be implemented in the individual user terminals instead of running on one or more centralized servers. In some embodiments a combination of client server architecture and peer to peer architecture can be used in which one or more centralized servers may be used to provide some of the information and or services and the peer to peer network is used to provide other information and or services. Thus embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to a particular architecture.

In one embodiment the explicit or implicit recommendations or other activity of friends in the social network are used to facilitate the automated identification of certain friends to send a question based on a user s information request.

The social network system stores and updates the information about the activity of users on the network including user data content created and offered for sharing by the providing users e.g. favorites or comments . The user content can be recommended by the social network system e.g. comments to other receiving users who have similar preferences as the provider users.

In one embodiment the system performs matching based on user preferences and pre defined rules. Thus the providing users do not have to explicitly indicate the recipients of the shared information and the receiving users do not have to annotate other people s contents for consumption. The social network system can process the preference match to provide the recommendation.

In some embodiments the user may be presented a user interface on a user terminal which may be used to share user data content tagged with location information. This interface may be used to submit an information request or to provide favorites comments or multimedia content e.g. a message a video clip etc. for sharing with friends in the online social network . The user may specifically recommend some locations of interests via a selection on a map presented in the user interface. The user contents may for example be automatically associated with this location information by the user terminal using a GPS location device.

Various user preference criteria can be used to select information to be presented to a user. For example user preference criteria may include a requirement that the provider of the information e.g. an answer to a question is in a preference buddy list of the user or within a predetermined social distance from the user . The user preference criteria may include a requirement that a person in the preference buddy list of the user or within a predetermined social distance from the user has actually had prior activity of a defined type that is related to the information to be presented or has prior activity incidents or events of more than a predetermined number of times e.g. used a service repeatedly .

In one embodiment the user preference criteria are configurable pluggable and tunable by the user. For example the user may select a set of criteria from a set of pre defined criteria or add a custom designed criterion or adjust the parameters of the selected criteria. Thus the users can configure the matching process to obtain the desired recommendations from friends via the operation of the online social network.

Additional information regarding various data processing systems popularity rankings user relationship graphs presentation of information in response to user requests and other hardware and methods for an online social network are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 116 169 filed May 6 2008 titled Systems and Methods to Provide Search Based on Social Graphs and Affinity Groups by David Yoo which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In alternative embodiments online social network site aggregates recommendations of businesses service providers products information entertainment programs merchants etc. and tracks the user identifications of those users making the recommendations. The network site also may provide search results in response to a searching user s search query or other information request. The network site selects businesses that are most relevant based on the search query and the number of recommendations of each business from users that are most closely related to the searching user. In some embodiments the network site counts only the number of recommending users of a predetermined degree of closeness to the searching user. The searching user can use the rank of the business in the search result the number of recommending users and the identity of some or all of the recommending users to influence their decision as to which business to use. Typically the recommendations of more closely related recommending users are more relevant to a searching user than recommendations of more distantly related or unrelated users.

In some embodiments user terminals and may take many forms including desktop and notebook computers mobile phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . For example the user terminals may be configured to be connected through the Internet to the social network site .

The online social network may take various forms. Social networks include online communities where users interact and establish relationships with each other Examples of social networks include the FACEBOOK MySpace and Linkedin web sites. FACEBOOK My Space and Linkedin are registered trademarks of Facebook Myspace Inc. and Linkedin Corporation respectively. Users of online social network may interact with each other in various ways including chat email file sharing blogging and affinity groups. Affinity groups may be groups that people join for any number of reasons such as to express a particular interest engage in discussions about a particular subject or express a relationship with other members. Users of social networks establish relationships with each other in various ways on the social networks including by joining common affinity groups becoming friends or making a connection. 

A person using a user terminal may log into social network to interact and establish relationships with other users. In some cases the same person may access the social networks using different user devices at different times. For example the person may use their desktop computer when at work their laptop computer in a meeting and their mobile phone when on the road. In each case the person is identified to the social network by using a user identification to tog into the social network from one of the user devices.

In some embodiments users log into a social network or their user device using a user identification and password. In some cases the user is somewhat anonymous in that the user identification is a user name or screen name. In other cases the user identification may be associated with more specific identifying information such as the user s real name or social security number. In some embodiments a person is identified by different user names depending on which social network or user device they are accessing. In such embodiments the network site may associate a common user identification with each of the user names on that information associated with this person may be aggregated across multiple information sources.

The first person may click on an input device e.g. a button on a web page in a web page on the social network to indicate that the user prefers or recommends a first business. The input device is a mechanism for allowing the user to interact with the social network. For example the input device may be a button checkbox or drop down list in a web page on the social network. The second person may click an input device in a web page on the social network that indicates that the user prefers or recommends the first business as well. The second person may recommend a second business instead of or in addition to the first business. Similarly other users may indicate preferences for one or more businesses on the social network. Furthermore these users may interact similarly with other social networks.

The context and processes for indicating these preferences and recommendations may be implemented in any of a number of ways on each of these social networks. For example a user may browse a list of businesses from a database and click on an input device associated with a particular business to indicate a preference. In other cases a user may review the recommended businesses of other users and click on an input device to adopt a particular recommendation as their own.

In some cases a user may log into an account managed by the network site using a user identification and make recommendations directly associated with the user profile maintained by the network site . For example the user may visit the web site of a business and click on a button on their browser to add that business to their recommended businesses e.g. favorites as stored in their account on the network site . In other cases the user logs into the social network using a user identification and makes the recommendations within the context of that social network. The network site subsequently retrieves this information from the social network and associates the information with the user profile maintained by the network site .

In some embodiments users of the social networks recommend businesses by clicking on an input device associated with a particular business to indicate that the user prefers or recommends that business. These recommendations and preferences may be available to other users in various ways including by viewing the recommending user s profile on the social network or receiving announcements of new recommendations through a messaging feature of the social network. The social network may employ other methods of indicating and sharing a preference or recommendation for certain businesses.

In some embodiments users select one of several levels of favorites to indicate the strength of a recommendation. For example user may click on one of two buttons to indicate that a particular business is either recommended or highly recommended In other cases a multiple point scale may be used to indicate the strength of the recommendation. Other methods for users to indicate a preference for a certain business may be used. In some embodiments these recommended businesses may be listed in the favorite list in the profile of the user on the social network or internet site

In some embodiments network site includes one or more computers configured to perform the functionality described herein. For example the network site may include one or more computers to implement web server functionality to interface with the user terminals over the internet. Furthermore the network site may include one or more databases configured to manage information including user profiles and recommended businesses and configured to search that information in response to information requests from a user. The databases may be configured to store multiple relationships between user identifications a list of favorite businesses of each user identification and relationships between each user identification and an affinity group or social network.

In some embodiments the network site aggregates recommended businesses and user identifications of people that recommend each recommended business on the social networks. The network site also retrieves one or more relationship graphs that indicate relationships between users of the social network . The relationship graphs include information about the relationships between user identifications on the social network. For example the relationship graph may include information about which users are members of each affinity group which users are directly related as friends or connections and which users are more remotely connected through intermediate friends or connections such as a friend of a friend.

In some embodiments the user terminals may also let persons submit information requests in the form of search queries. For example a person wanting to find someone to fix their Porsche may submit a search query Porsche mechanic on the user terminal using a keyboard or voice input for example. The user terminal sends the search query or other information request over the communication network to the network site . In some cases a location of the searching user is provided to the network site so that the search service can prioritize relevant businesses based at least in part by distance from the searching user. The network site provides the search results or other answer over the Internet to the user terminal to the searching user.

In some embodiments the network site selects businesses in response to a search query based at least in part on the number of recommendations of each business by recommending users of a certain degree of closeness to the searching user in the one or more relationship graphs. For example the network site may select and rank businesses based at least in part on the number of recommendations from recommending users with a direct relationship with the searching user. In other cases the network site counts users with recommendations from recommending users with second degree third degree and higher degree relationships with the searching user and ranks the businesses at least in part based on these counts.

In some embodiments the network site counts only recommendations from users in certain affinity groups or particular social networks. For example if the searching user is searching for a financial advisor the searching user might only be interested in the recommendations of people in a selected affinity group. In some cases the user specifies a particular affinity group or social network to include based for example on their perception of the relevant expertise of members of that group or network. In other cases the selection of groups or networks to include is done automatically based on the search query. For example the network site may only count relationships within finance related groups if the network site determines that the search query is related to a finance related matter.

In some embodiments the network site transmits the search results over the communication network to the user terminal . The user terminal presents the search results with a rating or indication of one or more numbers of recommendations according to one or more criteria hi some cases the one or more number of recommendations may include the number of recommendations overall. In some cases one or more numbers of recommendations are presented for one or more particular categories such as number of recommendations among each of the searching user s first degree relationships second degree relationships and third degree relationships Other categories may include the number of recommending users that are a member of a particular affinity group or a member of a particular social network.

The user terminal may also present the answer or search results with an indication of one or more user identifications associated with recommendations. In some cases all the user identifications associated with the recommended business are presented. The search results may include user identifications selected or prioritized based on the recommending user s relevance to the searching user. In some embodiments the most relevant users may be recommending users with the closest relationships to the searching user. The closest relationships are ones which the searching user may recognize and find most persuasive in influencing their selection of one of the presented businesses. In some embodiments the relevance of recommending users may be based on one or more factors including the degree of closeness of the relationship between the two user identifications the number of independent relationships connecting the two user identifications the number of common group memberships and the relevance of each affinity group to the search query.

In some embodiments the information request or search query is submitted through an application programming interface API to the network site . For example the API may provide for business search queries in their social network profile provide a mechanism for the user to identify and share favorite businesses on that website and also al low the network site to access that user s favorite businesses and relationships on that website.

In some embodiments the network site aggregates recommendations of all users of the website other embodiments the API can be configured to specify that recommendations from a specific subset of users on the website are included. For example the network site might aggregate the recommendations of newspaper editors on the newspaper website and aggregate the recommendations of product review staff on the product review website.

In some cases the recommendations of these the users associated with the website are incorporated into the search results on the website for all searches. In other embodiments the recommendations of these users are only incorporated into certain types of searches such as search queries related to their area of expertise. For example only restaurant recommendations of the restaurant critics on the newspaper website might be incorporated into the search results.

Friends list includes a listing of friends etc. of the user. Each friend has an associated location e.g. as previously provided to network site by the friend . The friends list is accessed by the user clicking on a Friends tab . A legend has an accompanying input box for the input of an information request e.g. associated with a location by user seeking an answer. As an example the user may associate the information request with a desired location by indicating the location for which the user is interested in an answer by inputting a desired location. The information request may be sent to social network site by clicking using a mouse on Ask button . Input box may also be used for making a search query. This query may be requested using search button .

Favorites list includes a list of favorites etc. previously selected by the user. Each favorite is associated with a location . Also each favorite may be associated with a business or service type or category e.g. General Merchandise or Korean Restaurants . These types and categories may have been previously selected by the user when the favorite was created.

Each favorite may have an associated rating and . The rating is based on popularity with direct friends of the user rating is based on popularity with extended friends of the user e.g. friends of friends and rating is based on popularity with all users of the social network. In other embodiments the rating may be based on popularity with all users of the social network within a particular category type e.g. as selected by the user for viewing .

The ratings may also be used for answers provided to the user as discussed further below. Each favorite may also have a time indicating the time period that has passed since for example the favorite was created.

A user submits question What is your favorite French Restaurant in Los Angeles Calif. and requests information about a subject matter e.g. a restaurant generally and a French restaurant even more specifically . The user originally submitted an information request using input box and initiated submission of the request to network site by clicking Ask button . In response to receiving this information request social network site automatically searches its database of network data on other users in order to send a question to selected other users as discussed herein.

Two answers and are received from these selected other users in reply to this question. Each answer has a rating and . Other ratings may be used. Also the answers may be ranked in a display order based on one of these ratings. In some embodiments the answers may be associated with a type or category which may be displayed for the user.

In block network site searches network data of friends on the social network to identify a friend having prior activity related to a subject matter of the information request and to the location. In other embodiments users other than or in addition to friends may be searched. The friends searched may be direct friends or extended friends to any nth degree of relationship. In alternative embodiments the search may be limited to simply a relationship to the subject matter regardless of location. Also in some embodiments the search may be limited to a business or service category or type that has been previously associated with the friends or other users. In alternative embodiments the set of other users considered may be based on the relationship graph mentioned above.

For example a relationship between the subject matter of the information request and network data that has been previously stored regarding one or more friends of the user may be determined by referencing the category and meta data associated with all of the locations businesses and products for which a user has previously provided a favorite or comment.

In some embodiments the prior activity of an other user or friend is related to the location in the information request based on one or more of the following location data previously received by social network site from a user device of the other user or friend and a favorite previously provided to the social network by the other user or friend wherein the favorite is associated with another location that is within a predetermined distance of the location in the information request.

In other embodiments the prior activity data includes at least one of the following a list of favorites provided to network site by the other user or friend a comment provided to the network site by the other user or friend and data forwarded to network site from a user device of the other user or friend.

In yet other embodiments after a first friend is identified using related subject matter network site searches network data to identify a second friend having prior activity related to the location in the information request Network site directs the same question to the second friend and receives an answer to the question from the second friend. The answer is sent to the user e.g. displayed on a web page as discussed above and is indicated as being a response to the information request of the user.

In block network site directs a question regarding the information request to the identified friend or friends or other users . In block network site receives an answer to the question from the identified friend s or other users. In block network site provides the answer to the user. The answer has one or more ratings based on its popularity with the user s friends. In some embodiments network site sends an electronic notification to the identified friend s indicating that a question is being directed to them from the network site .

More specifically social network site receives messages from users e.g. a member such as the user of user terminal . These messages may include questions and answers as discussed above. Also the messages may include favorites and comments as discussed above. The content of these messages may be stored as user provided content on network site .

When the message received from the user is a question social network site determines the intended recipient of the message and forwards the message to Twitter site . For example network site may recognize the recipient as being on a list of friends of a user that are to be communicated with using a Twitter service. Network site sends the question in a message over a communication network to Twitter site . Network site may be integrated with Twitter site using an application program interface API associated with the Twitter site . The message is then converted by Twitter site into the form of a tweet which is then sent to a user on user terminal who is a member of Twitter site . An answer to the question is sent from user terminal in the form of a tweet to Twitter site which forwards the answer to network site . In alternative embodiments user terminal may in addition to the theregoing communicate with user terminal using tweets sent directly to Twitter site .

The network site maintains a record in a data store of user names and corresponding aliases e.g. User A and Alias A . The answer from user terminal is forwarded by Twitter site to an address associated with one of these aliases. Network site uses data store to match the alias to the appropriate user e.g. the user of user terminal for further handling of the message.

As a specific example network site and Twitter site permit two people to have a conversation about a Mexican restaurant e.g. in which the conversation began with a question about the location of the Mexican restaurant . One person is logged onto network site and the second person is only logged onto Twitter site . The second person receives a tweet from the first person and is able to simply send a tweet in reply i.e. answer . Because network site initiated the tweet the answer i.e. reply tweet returns back to an alias of the first person s Twitter account. Network site associates this alias with the original question from the first person.

In an alternative embodiment the question is sent to a messaging site which may implement a messaging protocol different from that used on the Twitter site . Messaging site communicates with social network site similarly as described above. The questions are received from network site and forwarded to user terminal . Answers may be provided similarly as described above.

A natural language module may be used by network site to perform natural language processing on answers received from Twitter site . More specifically the answer may be parsed using extensive natural language processing in order to determine the form of the answer. For example this processing may determine that the recipient was not able to provide an answer or that the recipient desires the question be asked again. This processing may also determine whether the answer includes a location business or business name and then store and use this information on network site e.g. as discussed herein for other embodiments . Thus in some embodiments a user of the Twitter service who is not otherwise associated with network site is able to have an exchange of questions and answers with a member of social network site .

In other embodiments favorites selected by members of a social network site e.g. the user of user terminal are received by network site without the member needing to log into the social network. Instead the user may send for example tweets to Twitter site which are then forwarded to social network site . The forwarded tweets are parsed to identify the favorites which are then added to user provided content as new favorites for that particular user.

In block network site sends the question to a second user through an intermediate second social network site e.g. Twitter site or messaging site of which the second user is a member. In one embodiment the second social network site is Twitter site and network site stores data having records for a plurality of friends of the first user in which the data records include a Twitter user name for each respective friend. These friends may include the second user. In another embodiment the first user is a member of the second social network site and network site has previously received an indication from the first user permitting network site to send questions received from the first user to the second social network site for forwarding to members of the second social network site.

In block network site receives an answer to the question from the second user through the second social network site. In block network sends the answer to the first user e.g. for display on a web page on user terminal . In one embodiment the answer is presented to a user on a list of questions and respective answers provided for presentation in a web page on a display of a user device e.g. as described above .

In another embodiment network site provides an activity feed to the first user. The activity feed includes answers received to prior questions of the first user in which the answers are received by network site from the second social network site. The activity feed may further include a plurality of favorites received from other users of the second social network site and each of the other users may have previously provided a respective one of the favorites in a message sent to the second social network site.

In the system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment a data processing system as illustrated is used to implement an online social network site a navigation engine and or other servers such as a server to match user preferences and or to select candidates for transition point. For example the data processing system may be used to implement Twitter site or messaging site .

In one embodiment a data processing system as illustrated in is used to implement a user terminal which may receive or compute a navigation route and present the navigation route together with user data content shared via a social network. A user terminal may be in the form of a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular phone a notebook computer or a personal desktop computer.

In some embodiments one or more servers of the system can be replaced with the service of a peer to peer network of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or a distributed computing system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

In the position identification unit is used to identify a geographic location for user content created for sharing. The position identification unit may include a satellite positioning system receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to automatically identify the current position of the user device. Alternatively an interactive map can be displayed to the user and the user can manually select a location from the displayed map.

In the communication device is configured to communicate with an online social network to provide user data content tagged with location data. A location solution can be computed and presented at least in part via the processor and the presentation device .

In one embodiment the user input device is configured to generate user data content which is to be tagged with the location information for sharing. The user input device may include a text input device a still image camera a video camera and or a sound recorder etc.

In some embodiments the machine is a user terminal or according to an embodiment as described above. In other embodiments the machine is a portion of a social network e.g. a machine supporting some or all of online social network site .

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a nonvolatile memory which communicate with each other via a bus . In some embodiments the machine may be a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA or mobile phone for example. In one embodiment the machine also includes a video display an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

In one embodiment the video display includes a touch sensitive screen for user input. In one embodiment the touch sensitive screen is used instead of a keyboard and mouse. The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the machine the main memory and the processor also including machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . In some embodiments the machine readable medium also includes a database including aggregated businesses associated user identifications and user relationship graphs.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be Obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. White some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

