---

title: Medical communication hub and associated methods
abstract: A patient communication system having a medical sensing device operable to collect medical data, a network communication module operable to transmit the medical data onto a data network, a controller operable route the first medical sensing data to the network communication module, and a power source operable to provide power to the first medical sensing device, the controller, and the network communication module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09606601&OS=09606601&RS=09606601
owner: Volcano Corporation
number: 09606601
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140210
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 238 026 filed Feb. 10 2014 which is a U.S. national stage application Patent Cooperation Treaty Application No. PCT US2012 052241 filed Aug. 24 2012 which claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 526 990 filed Aug. 24 2011 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of medical devices and more particularly to a medical communication system and associated methods of use.

Innovations in diagnosing and verifying the level of success of treatment of disease have migrated from solely using external imaging processes to now including internal diagnostic processes as well. In particular diagnostic equipment and processes have been developed for diagnosing vasculature blockages and other vasculature disease by means of ultra miniature sensors placed upon the distal end of a flexible elongate member such as a catheter or a guide wire used for catheterization procedures. For example known medical sensing techniques include angiography intravascular ultrasound IVUS forward looking IVUS FL IVUS fractional flow reserve FFR determination a coronary flow reserve CFR determination optical coherence tomography OCT trans esophageal echocardiography and image guided therapy. Each of these techniques may be better suited for different diagnostic situations. To increase the chance of successful treatment health care facilities may have a multitude of imaging and sensing modalities on hand in a catheter lab during a procedure. However each imaging modality in a catheter lab traditionally requires its own special purpose diagnostic equipment. For instance an imaging modality may require a catheter a patient interface module PIM a user control interface a display a specialized power unit and a processing unit such as a customized personal computer. Traditionally all of this equipment is located in the catheter room itself during a procedure and depends on a substantial wiring infrastructure for data transport and dependable power. Physical space is typically at a premium in catheter labs and each additional imaging modality employed in a catheter lab complicates the pre procedure setup and limits the movement of health care professionals during procedures. For example typically each additional imaging modality may require its own communication cable and its own power cable. These cable assemblies are often coiled under patient tables and are prone to being damaged from either being stepped on by personnel or equipment rolling over them. Cleaning the cables after a procedure is also very time consuming and difficult.

While the existing devices and methods have been generally adequate for their intended purposes they have not been entirely satisfactory in all respects. The medical sensing systems and associated methods of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the shortcomings of the prior art.

In one exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a powered medical communication hub. The hub includes a housing and a rear interface assembly disposed at a distal end of the housing. The rear interface assembly includes a first data link configured to transmit first medical data associated with a first modality to a processing system and a power link configured to receive a first amount of power. The hub also includes a power distribution module disposed within the housing electrically coupled to the power link and configured to convert the first amount of power into a plurality of power levels and a forward interface assembly disposed at a proximal end of the housing the forward interface assembly including a first connector communicatively coupled to the first data link and electrically coupled to the power distribution module the first connector being configured to provide a first medical sensing device coupled thereto with a second amount of power equal to one of the plurality of power levels and receive the first medical data from the first medical sensing device.

In some instances the housing may be fluid resistant and an interface between the rear interface assembly and the housing and an interface between the front interface assembly and the housing may be fluid resistant. Also in some instances the second amount of power may be different than the first amount of power. Additionally in some instances the front interface assembly may include a second connector electrically coupled to the power distribution module the second connector being configured to provide a second medical sensing device coupled thereto with a third amount of power equal to one of the plurality of power levels and receive second medical data associated with a second modality different from the first modality from the second medical sensing device.

In another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a medical communication system including a powered medical communication hub having a mounting portion thereon. The hub includes a plurality of connectors each connector in the plurality of connectors being configured to receive medical data associated with a different medical sensing modality and to provide power to a medical sensing device coupled thereto and a rear interface assembly configured to receive a plurality of cables the cables communicatively and electrically coupling the hub to a processing system. The system also includes mounting means releaseably coupled to the mounting portion of the powered medical communication hub the mounting means being configured to mount the powered medical communication hub within a medical environment and a cable protection assembly releaseably coupled to the rear interface assembly of the powered medical communication hub the plurality of cables extending through the cable protection assembly.

In some instances the cable protection assembly may include an elongate and flexible housing enclosing the cables therein. Also in other instances the mounting means may include a rail clamp configured to releaseably couple to a rail in a medical environment. In yet another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of collecting medical sensing data including receiving at a powered medical communication hub a first amount of power from a power source converting with a power distribution module in the powered medical communication hub the first amount of power into a plurality of power levels providing with the powered medical communication hub a second amount of power equal to one of the plurality of power levels to a first medical sensing device receiving at the powered medical communication hub first medical data associated with a first modality from the first medical sensing device and transmitting with the powered medical communication hub the first medical data to a processing system.

In some instances the method of collecting medical sensing data may include providing with the powered medical communication hub a third amount of power equal to one of the plurality of power levels to a second medical sensing device receiving at the powered medical communication hub second medical data associated with a second modality different from the first modality from the second medical sensing device and transmitting with the powered medical communication hub the second medical data to the processing system.

In one exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a patient communication system. The patient communication system includes a first medical sensing device operable to collect first medical data associated with a first modality and an analog to digital converter communicatively coupled to the first medical sensing device and operable to digitize the first medical data. The system also includes a network communication module communicatively coupled to the first medical sensing device and a data network the network communication module operable to transmit the digitized first medical data onto the data network. Further the system includes a controller communicatively coupled to the analog to digital converter and the network communication module and operable route the first medical sensing data to the network communication module. The system also includes a power source operable to provide power to the first medical sensing device the controller and the network communication module.

In some instances the patient communication system includes including a hub having therein the analog to digital converter controller and network communication module. Further in some instances the system includes a first patient isolation module communicatively coupled to the first medical sensing device and the hub and operable to receive the first medical data from the first medical sensing device and transmit the first medical data to the hub the first patient isolation module being further operable to route power from the power source to the first medical sensing device.

In another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of collecting medical sensing data. The method of collecting medical sensing data includes collecting with a first medical sensing device first medical data associated with a first modality and digitizing with an analog to digital converter the first medical data. The method also includes routing with a controller communicatively coupled to the analog to digital converter the digitized first medical data to a network communication module and transmitting with the network communication module communicatively coupled to a data network the digitized first medical data onto the data network. Further the method includes providing power with a power source to the first medical sensing device the controller and the network communication module.

In some instances the digitizing with the analog to digital converter the routing with the controller the transmitting with the communication module and the providing power with the power source are performed by a hub communicatively coupled to the first medical device. Further in some instances the collecting first medical data includes transmitting the first medical data through a first patient isolation module to the hub.

In another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a patient communication system. The patient communication system includes a first control module operable to receive first medical data associated with a first modality from a first body sensing device and a second control module operable to receive second medical data associated with a second modality from a second body sensing device. The system further includes a first power module operable to dynamically supply a first amount of power to the first body sensing device based on a power requirement of the first body sensing device and a second power module operable to dynamically supply a second amount of power to the second body sensing device based on a power requirement of the second body sensing device. Further the system includes a communication module operable to transmit the first and second medical data to a data network.

In another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of using a patient communication system. The method of using a patient communication system includes coupling a first body sensing device to a first patient isolation module the first body sensing device including a first sensor disposed thereon and coupling the first patient isolation module to a hub the hub communicatively coupled to a data network. The method further includes coupling a second body sensing device to a second patient isolation module the second body sensing device including a second sensor disposed thereon and coupling the second patient isolation module to the hub. Further the method includes utilizing the first sensor to collect first medical characteristic data associated with a patient the collecting including transmitting the first medical characteristic data to the hub and also utilizing the second sensor to collect second medical characteristic data associated with the patient the collecting including transmitting the second medical characteristic data to the hub. The method also includes transmitting with the hub the first and second medical characteristic data to the data network and receiving at a user interface processed first and second medical characteristic data from the data network the user interface being communicatively coupled to the hub.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the disclosure is intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described devices instruments methods and any further application of the principles of the disclosure as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. In particular it is fully contemplated that the features components and or steps described with respect to one embodiment may be combined with the features components and or steps described with respect to other embodiments of the present disclosure.

In the illustrated embodiment the medical sensing communication system is deployed in a catheter lab having a separate control room isolated by an intervening wall . In other embodiments however the medical sensing communication system may be deployed in an operating room diagnostic room or other medical environment used to perform any number of patient procedures. The catheter lab includes a sterile field but its associated control room may or may not be sterile depending on the requirements of a procedure and or health care facility. The catheter lab and control room may be used to perform on a patient any number of medical sensing procedures such as angiography intravascular ultrasound IVUS virtual histology VH forward looking IVUS FL IVUS intravascular photoacoustic IVPA imaging a fractional flow reserve FFR determination a functional measurement determination a coronary flow reserve CFR determination optical coherence tomography OCT computed tomography intracardiac echocardiography ICE forward looking ICE FLICE intravascular palpography transesophageal ultrasound or any other medical sensing modalities known in the art. For example in catheter lab a patient may be undergoing a multi modality procedure in which IVUS data will be collected with an IVUS catheter and OCT data will be collected with an OCT catheter . The IVUS catheter may include one or more sensors such as a phased array transducer. In some embodiments the IVUS catheter may be capable of multi modality sensing such as IVUS and IVPA sensing. The OCT catheter may include one or more optical sensors.

The communication system includes a number of interconnected medical sensing related tools in the catheter lab and control room to facilitate this multi modality workflow procedure including an IVUS patient interface module PIM an OCT PIM an electrocardiogram ECG device a bedside control surface a processing system and a boom display . The hub in the catheter lab consolidates the multitude of cables extending from these medical sensing related tools and communicatively couples them to the processing system . That is the hub is an intermediary through which the tools in the catheter lab connect to the processing system . In general the hub is coupled to the processing system via a plurality of power and communication cables. To alleviate the problems associated with loose cabling in a crowded medical working environment the cables coupling the hub to the processing system extend through a protective hose and a trench in the floor of the catheter lab . The cables enter the trench through a trench entry port . In this manner the cables are aggregated and protected the entirety of the distance from the hub to the processing system . Of course the cabling between the hub and processing system may be oriented in many other configurations depending on the specific catheter lab configuration. For instance the cabling may extend through the protective hose and enter a wall or a ceiling through a termination plate before travelling to the processing system. In the illustrated embodiment the hub is mounted on the floor near the patient to reduce the amount of cabling located in high traffic areas near the patient. In some instances the hub may be located in the sterile field surrounding the patient . The hub and its associated cabling and mounting solutions will be described in greater detail in association with .

In the illustrated embodiment the processing system is a computer workstation with the hardware and software to acquire process and display multi modality medical sensing data but in other embodiments the processing system may be any other type of computing system operable to process medical data or assist in computer aided surgery CAS . In the embodiments in which processing system is a computer workstation the system includes at least a processor such as a microcontroller or a dedicated central processing unit CPU a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive random access memory RAM and or compact disk read only memory CD ROM a video controller such as a graphics processing unit GPU and a network communication device such as an Ethernet controller. U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 570 entitled MULTI MODALITY MEDICAL SENSING SYSTEM AND METHOD discloses a computing resource capable of processing multi modality medical sensing data and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As mentioned above the ECG device is also communicatively coupled to hub via a wired or wireless connection. The ECG device is operable to transmit electrocardiogram signals from patient to the hub . In some embodiments the hub may be operable to synchronize data collection with the catheters and using the ECG signals from the ECG .

The bedside control surface is also communicatively coupled to the hub and provides user control of the particular medical sensing modality or modalities being used to diagnose the patient . In the current embodiment the bedside control surface is a touch screen that provides user controls and diagnostic images on a single surface. In alternative embodiments however the bedside control surface may include both a non interactive display and separate controls such as physical buttons and or a joystick. In the illustrated embodiment the bedside control surface and hub communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link but alternatively the control surface and hub may communicate wirelessly. The bedside control surface includes an integrated processing unit to drive a graphical user interface GUI based workflow presented on the touch screen. U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 591 entitled DISTRIBUTED MEDICAL SENSING SYSTEM AND METHOD and filed on Apr. 8 2011 discloses a bedside control surface that executes GUI based workflows using a software framework and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The system further includes a boom display . The boom display may include one or more monitors capable of displaying information associated with a medical sensing procedure. In the illustrated embodiment the boom display is coupled to powered and driven by the hub .

With reference now to illustrated is an aspect of the medical sensing communication system . Specifically is a diagrammatic front perspective view of the powered medical communication hub of installed in a medical environment such as catheter lab and is a diagrammatic front close up view of the hub . is a diagrammatic rear perspective exploded view of portions of the hub . As mentioned above the hub is a intermediary through which the medical sensing related tools receive power and communicate with processing system . In one general aspect the hub is operable to provide power and instructions to medical sensing devices and transfer medical sensing data from connected medical sensing devices such as the IVUS PIM and OCT PIM to remote computing resources such as processing system to be processed. Once processed the medical sensing data may be returned to the hub where it is routed to the control surface and boom display to be displayed and analyzed by clinicians.

The hub includes a cylinder like housing . In the illustrated embodiment the housing is constructed of a impact resistant and fluid resistant metal and has a height of approximately 3.5 inches a width of approximately 10 inches and a depth of approximately 8 inches. In alternative embodiments the housing may be constructed of a different suitable material and or be of different dimensions. The housing includes a bottom mounting surface and a top mounting surface both of which are planar. The bottom mounting surface includes a set of threaded mounting apertures and the top mounting surface includes a set of threaded mounting apertures . As will be described in association with any number of mounting brackets may be releaseably coupled to the housing using either set of threaded mounting apertures and . In the illustrated embodiment each set of mounting apertures is configured to conform to the Video Electronics Standards Association VESA MIS D hole mount pattern. In alternative embodiments the mounting apertures and may conform to a different standard or may conform to a proprietary pattern. Further the mounting surfaces and may alternatively include different mounting solutions such as channels slots clips or magnetic elements.

The hub further includes a front interface panel coupled to the front of the housing and a rear interface panel coupled to the rear of the housing . Each of the interface panels and includes a complementary gasket disposed on the side facing the housing such that when they are secured to the housing as shown in they create a fluid resistant seal. The gaskets may be formed of rubber silicone or other sealing material. In one embodiment the hub may have a rating of IPX4 against fluid ingress as defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC standard 60529.In other embodiments in which the hub may be used in different environments the hub may have a different fluid ingress rating. As shown in the rear interface panel includes a cable aperture through which cables extending from the hub to the processing system may pass. As shown in the front interface panel of the hub includes a plurality of connectors to which a plurality of medical sensing related tools may connect. In the illustrated embodiment the front panel includes an IVUS PIM connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer power ground data and control signals a functional measurement FM tool connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer power ground data and control signals an first fiber optic connector and a second fiber optic connector each configured to pass power ground and light based data signals an OCT PIM connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer 48 volts DC ground and Ethernet based data a bedside control surface connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer 12 volts DC ground and Ethernet based data a FLIVUS PIM connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer 48 volts DC ground and Universal Serial Bus USB based data and a FLIVUS footswitch connector with conductive contacts configured to transfer foot actuated control signals. The connectors and are push pull ring style connectors that are configured to allow for one handed connection and disconnection of cables. Further the connectors are fluid resistant sealed color coded for easy identification and keyed differently for example in shape and pin count so as prevent misconnected cables. For example as shown in the FM tool connector includes 18 pin holes in a circular configuration but the bedside control surface connector includes 12 pin holes in a linear configuration. In the illustrated embodiment the connectors and are JBX series connectors commercially available from Souriau SAS of Versailles France. However in alternative embodiments other commercially available or proprietary connectors may be utilized and the connectors may be configured to include any number of additional features. Although the connectors and as labeled are associated with specific modalities it is contemplated that medical tools associated with additional and or different modalities may connect to one or more of the connectors provided that the medical tools connectors are compatible i.e. number of pins shape .

The front panel further includes an auxiliary power connector configured to provide 24 volts DC a ECG aortic device connector two USB connectors and a VGA display connector . In one catheter lab configuration the auxiliary power connector may provide power and the VGA display connector may provide a video signal to a bedside display monitor such as the boom display . Further the USB connectors may couple to and receive control signals from bedside controller devices such as joysticks touchpads hand gesture motion capture input devices or any other suitable controller devices. In the illustrated embodiment because the USB connectors and the VGA display connector are standardized it is contemplated that any number of USB based and VGA based tools may communicate with the processing system via the hub . Additionally the USB connectors may be fluid resistant. Further in alternative embodiments the VGA display connector may be another type of display connector such as a DVI connector an HDMI connector a DisplayPort connector an S Video connector or other video based connector and the USB connectors may be other types of data ports such as IEEE 1394 FireWire Thunderbolt serial parallel eSATA or proprietary connectors. Additionally the front panel includes an LED indicator configured to indicate when the hub is powered on. The front interface panel and the connectors and may together be considered a forward interface assembly.

As mentioned above shows the hub installed in one example configuration in a medical environment such as catheter lab . Specifically a vertical mounting bracket is coupled to the top mounting surface via the set of threaded mounting apertures . The mounting bracket is in turn mounted to a floor stand which is configured to sit on the floor of a catheter lab with a plurality of stabilizing feet. Further cables extending from the hub to the processing system exit the hub through the aperture in the rear panel and extend through an angled coupler the flexible protective hose a second angled coupler and an aperture in a termination plate . The angled coupler releaseably couples to the rear panel and includes a rubber seal around its periphery such that when it is coupled to the panel the interface between the coupler and the panel is fluid resistant. The flexible protective hose is configured to protect the cables extending therethrough and may be resistant to bodily fluids and cleaning chemicals typically found in medical environments. The flexible protective hose is further pliable such that it may be routed in a convenient manner in a catheter lab. The termination plate includes an aperture sized to approximately match the diameter of the second angled coupler and also includes a set of mounting apertures configured in a standardized pattern on the face of the plate. The mounting apertures permit the plate to be mounted around an aperture e.g. a wall exit point floor exit point etc through which the hub connected cables exit the catheter lab. In the illustrated embodiment the termination plate and the set of mounting apertures conform to the GE Termination standard. However in other embodiments the termination plate and apertures may conform to another standard such the Phillips Termination standard the double gang standard or the single gang standard. As shown in a straight coupler may also be releaseably coupled to the rear panel and the flexible protective hose . The straight coupler directs the protective hose away from the hub at a different angle than the angled coupler to provide for additional placement options in a catheter lab or other medical environment. The angled coupler or straight coupler flexible protective hose and second angled coupler may together be considered a cable protection assembly.

With reference now to illustrated are different configurations of the medical communication system in a medical environment. Specifically is a rear perspective view of the hub with the angled coupler coupled to the rear panel and is a rear perspective view of the hub with the straight coupler coupled to the rear panel . As shown by the couplers and direct the flexible protective hose away from the hub at different angles. As shown all cable based connections to the rear of the hub including power and communications are contained within the flexible hose . Examples of the cables exiting the rear of the hub within the hose are shown in .

With reference now to illustrated are four mounting brackets that may be coupled to the hub so that the hub may be dynamically mounted in a medical environment such as catheter lab . is a diagrammatic perspective view of a horizontal rail mount . The horizontal rail mount includes a mounting surface that is configured to couple to either the bottom mounting surface or the top mounting surface on the hub . The mounting surface includes a set of mounting apertures that align with either the set of mounting apertures or on the hub . In the illustrated embodiment the set of mounting apertures on the mounting surface conforms to the VESA hole mount pattern but alternatively may be configured to conform to a different pattern depending on the pattern implemented on the mounting surfaces of the hub . When the mounting apertures on the mounting surface are aligned with either the set of mounting apertures or on the hub connectors such as screws nay pass through the aligned apertures and releaseably couple the horizontal rail mount to the hub . The horizontal rail mount further includes a rail clamp that is configured to releaseably couple to a rail on or near a patient table in a catheter lab. In the illustrated embodiment the rail clamp is physically configured to mate with a standardized rail and when the clamp is so mated the attached hub will be in a horizontal position. is a diagrammatic perspective view of a vertical rail mount that is configured to be coupled to the hub . Specifically the vertical rail mount is similar to the horizontal rail mount in that it has a mounting surface with a set of standardized mounting apertures and a rail clamp . However when the hub is coupled to the mounting surface and the rail clamp is clamped to a patient table rail the hub will be in a vertical position.

Referring now to is a diagrammatic sectional side view of the IVUS PIM connector on the front panel of the hub and is a diagrammatic perspective view of the protective cap . As noted above the interface between the front interface panel and the connector is fluid resistant. This is due in part to a pair of complementary washers and . The washers and are disposed around the connector on either side of the front panel to create a fluid resistant seal therebetween. As shown in the protective cap is configured to removeably mate with the connector to keep dust fluid and other particles out of the connector. The cap includes an inner ring and an outer ring that are configured to create a fluid resistant seal when engaged with the connector . The cap also includes a retaining portion configured to fixedly engage an outside portion of the connector . When so engaged the cap is tethered to the connector via the flexible arm . The cap is just one example of a protective cap that may be used with the connectors on the hub and other caps may be used that are configured in a different manner for instance to mate with connectors with different shapes than the connector .

The hub further includes a MultiFiber Push On MPO link to which the first and second fiber optic connectors and are internally coupled. In general the MPO link is configured to aggregate fiber optic signals and route them over a single fiber optic line. As shown in a single fiber optic cable extends from the processing system through the aperture in the rear panel and to the MPO link where data destined for the first and second fiber optic connectors and is parsed and routed to the appropriate connector. In some embodiments the MPO link may be coupled to a printed circuit assembly PCA disposed inside of the hub near the aperture but in other embodiments the MPO link may be disposed on the rear panel .

The hub includes links and that respectively communicatively couple the processing system to the OCT PIM connector and the bedside control surface connector . As mentioned above the connectors and pass Ethernet based data signals to connected medical sensing tools. Thus in the illustrated embodiment the links and are RJ45 jacks that respectively accept Cat cables and . However in other embodiments the links and may accept Ethernet based data over coaxial fiber optic or some other type of suitable cable. In some embodiments the links and may be integrated into a PCA disposed within the hub and communicatively coupled to the connectors and via conductive traces on the PCA but in other embodiments the links and may be disposed on the rear panel for easy access. The hub further includes a link configured to communicatively couple the processing system to the ECG device connector and thus the ECG device . In some embodiments the link may be integrated into the ECG device connector such that a ECG signal cable running from the processing system to the hub extends through the aperture in the rear panel and couples to one side of the connector link and a cable running from the ECG device to the hub couples to the other side of the connector . But in other embodiments the link may be disposed on the rear panel such that the cable running from the processing system to the hub does not extend into the interior of the hub. Additionally the hub includes a link configured to communicatively couple the processing system to the VGA connector and pass video information to the display . In the illustrated embodiment the link accepts a male VGA connector disposed on the end of a cable coupled to the workstation . However in other embodiments the link may be configured to accept other video based connectors such as a DVI connector an HDMI connector a DisplayPort connector or an S Video connector. Similar to the links and the link may in some embodiments be integrated into the its associated connector or alternatively it may be disposed on the rear panel for easy access.

The hub further includes a link and a wireless communication module that is operable to communicate with medical sensing related tools in close proximity to the hub such as a wireless ready PIM. In one embodiment the wireless communication module may be a wireless personal area network WPAN communication module such as an Ultra wide band UWB module a wireless FireWire module or wireless USB module a Bluetooth module a IEEE 802.11 based wireless module or some other high speed wireless module. In the illustrated embodiment data passes over a data cable to link which forwards it to the wireless communication module to be wirelessly transmitted. In some embodiments the link may be a RJ45 connector through which Ethernet based data passes but in other embodiments it may be another type of connector through which Ethernet based data may pass or may transmit a different type of data. As with the links and the link may be integrated into a PCA disposed inside of the hub in some embodiments or it may be disposed on the rear panel in other embodiments.

Further the hub includes a remote extender . In general the remote extender is configured to extend the range of USB communications by converting USB based data to fiber optic based data so that the data may be transported over long distances e.g. up to 500 meters . In the illustrated embodiment the USB connectors are communicatively coupled to the remote extender which is in turn coupled to the MPO link . As such the processing system may communicate with USB based devices such an input device e.g. joystick mouse keyboard touchpad etc even if the hub is located hundreds of meters from the workstation. Additionally the FLIUVS PIM connector is communicatively coupled to the remote extender and thus may pass USB based data to the processing system via the hub . Further as shown in the FLIVUS foot switch connector and the ECG device connector are communicatively coupled to the FLIVUS connector so that signals from a FLIVUS footswitch and the ECG device may be used to coordinate data collection by a FLIVUS PIM coupled to the connector .

The hub includes a power distribution module configured to distribute power to medical sensing related tools connected to the hub. In the illustrated embodiment the power distribution module is a hardware based module. However in other embodiments the module may be a combination of hardware and software in which software controls power flow through the hardware. In the illustrated embodiment a link electrically couples the power distribution module to a 48 volt DC medical grade power supply in the workstation . In other embodiments however the power distribution module may draw power from another power source such as a wall receptacle. The power distribution module converts the power provided by the processing system into a plurality of power amounts i.e. levels which are appropriately routed to various connectors in the hub . For instance the power distribution module is electrically coupled to the first and second fiber optic connectors and and provides them with 48 volts DC. The power distribution module is also electrically coupled to the OCT PIM connector the bedside control surface connector the auxiliary power connector and the FLIVUS PIM connector and respectively provides them with 48 volts DC 12 volts DC 24 volts DC and 48 volts DC. Additionally the power distribution module provides 12 volts DC to the wireless module and 5 volts DC to the remote extender which in turn supplies the USB connectors with 5 volts DC. In alternative embodiments the power amounts distributed to the connectors may vary. In further embodiments the power distribution module may be operable to determine the amount of power required by medical sensing related tool connected to a connector on the hub and dynamically supply the correct amount of power. In yet further embodiments the hub may include a controller to interrogate newly connected medical sensing tools to determine operational attributes such as voltage requirements. U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 625 entitled MEDICAL SENSING COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD discloses a medical sensing communication system that includes a controller and power supply unit that are operable to dynamically supply different medical sensing tools with different amounts of power based on their needs and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In the illustrated embodiment the processing system provides the hub with 48 volts DC via a power cable that is coupled to the link . In some embodiments the link may be coupled to a PCA disposed inside of the hub near the aperture but in other embodiments the link may be disposed on the rear panel for easy access. Additionally as shown in the hub may be electrically coupled to a ground line via a cable . Although not shown for purposes of clarity the ground is distributed to the various connectors on the front panel of the hub that draw power from the power distribution module so that the connectors may pass along the ground to the connected tools.

As mentioned above the front interface panel and the connectors and described above may together be considered a forward interface assembly. Further the rear interface panel and the links and may together considered a rear interface assembly. Thus as described above in some embodiments the rear interface assembly may include internal portions of the hub e.g. when the links are integrated into a PCA disposed inside of the hub .

With reference now to the rear interface assembly of the hub may be assembled in the following manner. First after cables and have been installed in trench such that they enter the catheter lab through trench entry port they may be threaded through a coupler the flexible hose and another coupler such as straight coupler . With the rear panel and or housing removed from the hub the cables may then be threaded through the aperture in the rear panel and coupled to their respective links inside of the hub . For instance the cables and may be coupled to the links and which in some embodiments may be integrated into a PCA disposed within the hub . Once every cable extending from the processing system has been coupled to the hub the rear panel may be fixedly secured to the hub with connectors such as screws. As noted above when the rear panel is coupled to the hub the gasket creates a fluid resistant interface between the two. Next the coupler may be fixedly coupled around the aperture in the rear panel with connectors such as screws and the flexible tube may be fixedly secured to coupler on its hub end and to another coupler on its trench end. Once assembly is complete the cables connecting the processing system to the hub and their associated links inside of the hub are protected from damaging elements in the catheter lab such as fluids and impact. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the previous assembly scenario is simply one example and other scenarios using different elements and or positioning may be implemented.

In the illustrated embodiment the medical sensing communication system is deployed in a catheter lab having a control room . The catheter lab includes a sterile field but its associated control room may or may not be sterile depending on the requirements of a procedure and or health care facility. The catheter lab and control room may be used to perform on a patient any number of medical sensing procedures such as angiography intravascular ultrasound IVUS virtual histology VH forward looking IVUS FL IVUS intravascular photoacoustic IVPA imaging a fractional flow reserve FFR determination a coronary flow reserve CFR determination optical coherence tomography OCT computed tomography intracardiac echocardiography ICE forward looking ICE FLICE intravascular palpography transesophageal ultrasound or any other medical sensing modalities known in the art. For example in catheter lab a patient may be undergoing a multi modality procedure in which IVUS data will be collected with an IVUS catheter and OCT data will be collected with an OCT catheter . The IVUS catheter may include one or more sensors such as a phased array transducer. In some embodiments the IVUS catheter may be capable of multi modality sensing such as IVUS and IVPA sensing. The OCT catheter may include one or more optical sensors.

The communication system includes a number of interconnected medical sensing related tools in the catheter lab and control room to facilitate this multi modality workflow procedure including an IVUS patient isolation module PIM an OCT PIM an electrocardiogram ECG device a bedside control surface a control room control surface and a boom display . The BUB in the catheter lab interconnects these medical sensing related tools and communicatively couples them to a data network . That is the BUB is a central hub through which the tools in the catheter lab and control room connect to the data network . In the illustrated embodiment the data network is TCP IP based local area network LAN however in other embodiments it may utilize a different protocol such as Synchronous Optical Networking SONET or may be a wide area network WAN . Further in another embodiment the data network may be a data bus network such as a Universal Serial Bus USB network for connecting BUB to a host controller with computing resources. The BUB will be described in greater detail in association with .

In the illustrated embodiment of the IVUS catheter PIM and the BUB together may be considered a patient communication system that is operable to receive medical sensing data collected from the patient by the IVUS catheter and to transmit the received data onto the data network . As shown the BUB is communicatively coupled to the IVUS patient isolation module PIM via a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link and the IVUS PIM is in turn coupled to the IVUS catheter via a similar wired connection. In alternative embodiments however the BUB PIM connection and or the PIM catheter connection may be wired or wireless. In one embodiment the PIM includes an analog to digital A D converter and transmits digital data to the BUB however in other embodiments the PIM transmits analog data to the BUB. Further in some embodiments the PIM and BUB communicate with a standardized data transmission protocol such as Synchronous Optical Networking SONET . Further the PIM provides power to data collection sensors disposed on the catheter via its connection to BUB . Typically different sensory instruments require different amounts of power and thus their associated PIMs may draw different amounts of power from the BUB . As discussed later the BUB is operable to dynamically provide the appropriate amount of power to IVUS PIM via the wired connection.

Further the OCT catheter and PIM may also be considered a part of the patient communication system that includes PIM and BUB . With the OCT catheter and PIM the patient communication system is further operable to receive medical sensing data collected by the OCT catheter and transmit the received data onto the data network . In the illustrated embodiment the OCT PIM is communicatively coupled to BUB via a wireless connection but in alternative embodiments may be communicatively coupled via a wired connection. In one embodiment the PIM includes an A D converter and transmits digital data to the BUB however in other embodiments the PIM transmits analog data to the BUB. Further in some embodiments the PIM and BUB communicate with a standardized data transmission protocol such as SONET. In some embodiments the PIM may include a battery to power catheter may draw power from a wired power connection or may be wirelessly powered.

For convenience purposes the PIMs and may hang from the patient table or may be placed in another location near the patient. Although two PIMs are depicted as communicatively coupled to the BUB additional PIMs associated with different medical sensing modalities may be connected to BUB . Any such additional PIMs may communicate with the BUB concurrently with the PIMs and . Still further a single PIM may support multiple modalities such as IVUS and IVPA. Additionally in some embodiments such as those in which patient data is collected using angiography one of the illustrated PIMs may be replaced with a C arm. In such embodiments the C arm may act as the power and data intermediary between the angiography sensors and the network . Still further in another embodiment the medical sensing communication system may include an adapter device to serve as an intermediary between a third party system such as an angiography system and the BUB . Such an adaptor device may transform data in a proprietary third party format into a format usable by the system . U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0232933 entitled Component Based Catheter Lab Intravascular Ultrasound System discloses a component based IVUS system that includes a PIM and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As mentioned above the ECG device is also communicatively coupled to BUB via a wired or wireless connection. The ECG device is operable to transmit electrocardiogram signals from patient to the BUB . In some embodiments the BUB may be operable to synchronize data collection with the catheters and using the ECG signals from the ECG .

The bedside control surface is also communicatively coupled to the BUB and provides user control of the particular medical sensing modality or modalities being used to diagnose the patient . In the current embodiment the bedside control surface is a touch screen that provides user controls and diagnostic images on a single surface. In alternative embodiments however the bedside control surface may include both a non interactive display and separate controls such as physical buttons and or a joystick. In the illustrated embodiment the bedside control surface and BUB communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link but alternatively the control surface and BUB may communicate wirelessly. Further in some embodiments the bedside control surface may also be communicatively coupled directly to one or both of PIMs and . The bedside control surface includes an integrated processing unit to drive a graphical user interface GUI based workflow presented on the touch screen. In an exemplary embodiment the particular GUI based workflow presented by the bedside control surface depends on the medical sensing modality being used to diagnose the patient . To this end the bedside control surface is capable of displaying multiple GUI based workflows each corresponding to a particular sensor or imaging modality or simultaneous combination thereof. The bedside control surface is further operable to display co registration GUI based workflows for example to integrate sensing data collected by catheters and . An API based software framework executing on the bedside control surface manages the multiple workflows. U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 591 entitled Distributed Medical Sensing System and Method and filed on Apr. 8 2011 discloses a bedside control surface that executes GUI based workflows using a software framework and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The control room control surface in the control room is also communicatively coupled to the BUB and as shown in is adjacent to catheter lab . In the illustrated embodiment the control room control surface and BUB communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link but alternatively the control surface and BUB may wirelessly communicate. In the current embodiment the control room control surface is similar to the bedside control surface in that it includes a touch screen integrated processing unit and multitude of GUI based workflows corresponding to different medical sensing modalities. During a procedure however the control room control surface may be used to carry out a different aspect of the procedure s workflow than the bedside control surface . In alternative embodiments the control room control surface may include a non interactive display and standalone controls such as a mouse and keyboard. Further the processing unit of the control room control surface may be more powerful than the processing unit of the bedside control surface .

The system further includes the boom display . The boom display may include an array of monitors each capable of displaying different information associated with a medical sensing procedure. For example during an IVUS procedure one monitor in the boom display may display a tomographic view and one monitor may display a sagittal view. In an embodiment as described in the boom display may be coupled directly to and driven by the BUB . In other embodiments the boom display may also be operable to receive image data from the bedside control surface or the control room control surface .

With reference now to illustrated is an aspect of the medical sensing communication system . Specifically is a diagrammatic perspective view of the bedside utility box BUB of . As mentioned above the BUB is a hub through which the medical sensing related tools communicate with data network . In general the BUB is operable to collect medical sensing data from connected medical sensing devices such as the IVUS PIM and OCT PIM and send it to remote computing resources to be processed. Once processed the medical sensing data may be returned to the BUB where it is routed to the control surfaces and to be displayed and analyzed by clinicians.

The BUB includes a number of sockets to which the medical sensing related tools connect. In the illustrated embodiment the BUB includes an ECG socket an auxiliary power socket a FLIVUS foot switch socket a FLIVUS PIM socket an OCT PIM socket two USB sockets and a display socket a FFR PIM socket a IVUS PIM socket and a network communication socket . Referring to the ECG device may couple to the ECG socket the IVUS PIM may couple to the IVUS PIM socket the bedside controller may couple to the USB socket and the control room control surface may couple to the USB socket . The USB sockets and to which the control surfaces and connect may alternatively be replaced with other short distance high speed ports such as FireWire ports or Thunderbolt ports. Further in some embodiments the boom display may be coupled to the display socket which in the current embodiment is a VGA port but may alternatively be a DVI port S video port DisplayPort port HDMI port or other type of video display port. Additionally the BUB may communicate with the network through the network communication socket . In the illustrated embodiment the network communication socket is an Ethernet port but alternatively it may be another type of network communication port such as a fiber optic port. Or if the network is a data bus network the network communication socket may be a USB port a InfiniBand port a HyperTransport port a Thunderbolt port FireWire port or other data bus port. In the illustrated embodiment the sockets of BUB providing connectivity to medical sensing related tools are dedicated to a specific medical sensing modality and thus conform to a number of different form factors. However in alternative embodiments the sockets may be substantially similar i.e. are standardized . Further although the BUB includes certain sockets for specific medical sensing related tools in other embodiments it may include additional and or different sockets to connect medical sensing devices controllers and displays.

The BUB further includes a controller and a communication module . In some embodiments the controller may be a low power microcontroller with integrated memory and peripherals i.e. a system on a chip . However in other embodiments the controller may be a general purpose central processing unit CPU . The controller i.e. control module is operable among other things to route data from the sockets and the wireless communication module to the communication module where it may be transmitted to the network via socket . In the current embodiment the controller includes an analog to digital A D converter which the controller may selectively utilize based on whether data incoming from a connected PIM is in analog or digital form. For example the controller may convert analog data from a PIM to digital data before it is routed to the communication module . Additionally in some embodiments the controller may be operable to associate identifying information with the medical sensing data as it is routed to the communications module . More specifically the controller may create a plurality of digital messages from the incoming analog or digital data stream where each message contains a portion of the digitized medical sensing data and a header. The aforementioned U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 591 entitled Distributed Medical Sensing System and Method discloses creating messages that associate identifying information with medical sensing data in more detail.

Further in the event that multiple medical sensing devices are coupled to the BUB as illustrated in the controller may be operable to facilitate time synchronization among the devices for co registration purposes. For instance in one embodiment the controller may be operable to serve as a master time server for the PIMs and using a network based time synchronization protocol such as the Precision Time Protocol PTP or the Network Time Protocol NTP . In another embodiment the controller may be operable to assign a common timestamp to data as it arrives into the BUB from a plurality of medical sensing devices. Further in another embodiment the controller may communicate with connected medical sensing devices using a synchronous protocol such as Synchronous Optical Networking SONET and may assign timestamps to incoming medical sensing data based on the multiplexed communication. Still further in other embodiments the BUB may include a dedicated real time clock to synchronize sampling by connected medical sensing devices. In such an embodiment the real time clock may distribute a synchronization signal to connected sensing devices and also the controller which may act as a co registration processor. In some embodiments the real time clock may be integrated into the controller . The aforementioned U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 591 entitled Distributed Medical Sensing System and Method discloses temporally synchronizing medical sensing data collection in more detail.

Further in some embodiments the controller may be operable to modify the medical data received from the medical sensing devices as it is routed to the communication module . For example in some embodiments the controller may compress the data before it is transmitted over the network . In this manner large data sets produced by imaging modalities such as OCT may be more efficiently moved over the network . In some embodiments the controller may also be operable to filter incoming sensing data in some manner.

The communication module in the BUB is a high speed communication module operable to transmit data received from the medical sensing related tools connected to the BUB and the network . In embodiments in which the network is packet based the communication module is operable to packetize medical sensing data routed by and possibly digitized by the controller address the resulting packets and the send the packets out over the network . In the embodiments in which the controller segments incoming sensing data into messages the communication module may encapsulate the messages into TCP IP packets for transmission over the network . In the illustrated embodiment the communication module is an Ethernet based communication module however in other embodiments the communications module may be a InfiniBand switched fabric communications module HyperTransport communication module a fiber optic link module a USB controller a Thunderbird controller a FireWire controller a high speed wireless module or some other high speed communication module known in the art.

The BUB further includes a graphics controller operable to output images to the display socket . In the illustrated embodiment the graphics controller is a graphics processing unit GPU independent of the controller but in other embodiments it may be integrated into the controller or be a plug in off the shelf component. Further in some embodiments the BUB may include a plurality of display sockets where the graphics controller is capable outputting distinct video signals to each. The graphics controller gives the BUB the capability to independently output images representative of medical sensing data received from the connected medical sensing devices. In some embodiments this capability may be utilized to reduce network bandwidth requirements. For example data associated with a medical sensing modality that requires minimal processing e.g. FFR may be processed by controller and immediately output to a display via graphics controller thereby eliminating the need to send the data over the network to be processed. Further to mitigate against lost connectivity with network during a catheterization procedure the graphics controller may be used to perform some rudimentary image processing of incoming medical sensing data. For example if during an OCT procedure in which the BUB is receiving OCT data from OCT PIM the computing resources on network become unavailable the controller and graphics controller may be operable to perform some minimal image processing on the OCT data and output rudimentary OCT images to the display boom . Further in some embodiments the BUB upon receiving medical sensing data may render basic image data with graphics controller and simultaneously transmit an unprocessed version of the medical data to computing resources on network for more advanced processing and storage. A software framework executing on the controller in the BUB manages the routing analog to digital conversion and image processing of incoming medical sensing data. This software framework will be discussed in greater detail in association with .

The BUB further includes a medical grade power supply unit PSU . The PSU provides power to the controller wireless module and the medical sensing related tools e.g. medical sensing devices control surfaces connected to the sockets and . As mentioned above different connected tools may have different power requirements. For example a phased array catheter for use in IVUS procedures may require more power than a pressure sensor mounted on the distal end of a guide wire for use in a FFR procedure. Thus in the current embodiment the PSU is a multi stage power supply that includes an isolating transformer to step down an input AC voltage and a plurality of switching power converters PC to dynamically output a desired voltage at a specific socket. For example the PSU may step down a 120V AC supply to an intermediate DC voltage and then each power converter i.e. power module may convert the intermediate voltage to one of a plurality of DC voltages such as 48V 24V 12V 5V and 3.3V. The specific voltage output to each socket dynamically depends on the specific power requirements of the medical sensing related tool connected. In one embodiment the PCs may be physically integrated into the PSU . In other embodiments the PSU may be a different type of power supply known in the art and power conversion and distribution may be done by other methods known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally upon connection of a medical sensing related device to one of the sockets and the controller is operable to automatically interrogate the tool to determine connection attributes such as voltage and communication protocol. In the current embodiment the controller utilizes a low voltage e.g. 5V TTL logic initialization process to communicate with a newly connected medical sensing tool. In alternative embodiments however a different type of initialization process may be used. After the initialization process is complete the controller is operable to dynamically set the voltage output to the tool and in some embodiments the protocol with which the tool communicates with the BUB .

Note that the functional block diagram shown in has been simplified for the sake of clarity. A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that elements of the BUB may be rearranged or combined and that additional elements may be added without changing the functionality described herein. Further a person of ordinary skill in the art understands that in the context of the current disclosure a module may refer to a hardware module a software module or a combination software and hardware module.

With reference now to illustrated is a functional block diagram of the software framework executing on the BUB . More specifically illustrates one embodiment of the medical sensing communication system in which the IVUS PIM the OCT PIM an angiography system the bedside controller the boom display and data network are communicatively coupled to the BUB . As mentioned above the BUB includes a software framework to route digitize and process medical data received from connected medical sensing devices. The software framework includes a plurality of software layers that manage various aspects of the BUB . For instance an operating platform undergirds the software framework and provides the core functionality of the BUB . For instance the operating platform may manage power consumption and distribution of the BUB and may also manage network connectivity. Further the software framework may include an analog to digital conversion engine operable to digitize analog data incoming from medical sensing devices also may include a video engine operable to render images and video associated with medical sensing data. Additionally the software framework includes a routing manager operable to control the routing of data between the medical sensing related tools connected to BUB and the network . In some embodiments the routing manager may be operable to create a plurality of messages from digitized sensing data where each message includes identifying information about the associated data.

Each of the software layers and additionally expose application programming interfaces APIs through which system resources may be accessed. The software framework in BUB includes a processing application layer in which processing applications associated with specific medical sensing modalities may execute. Utilizing the APIs exposed by the underlying software layers the processing applications in the application layer may be operable to render video or other images e.g. FFR signal traces from the raw medical sensing data transmitted to the BUB by connected medical sensing devices. For example if the BUB loses network connectivity with the network an IVUS processing application in the application layer may call video processing APIs exposed by the video engine to render IVUS video images for display on the boom display . Further in some embodiments the application layer may include co registration applications in which medical sensing data from a plurality of medical sensing devices is co registered and processed to produce co registration images for display via the boom monitor . For instance a co registration application may display an electrocardiogram ECG wave adjacent to IVUS imaging data. In an exemplary embodiment additional processing applications may be added to the application layer to support new medical sensing modalities or co registration techniques developed after the BUB has been deployed. Further the API based software framework allows the applications to be independent of the supporting software layers and thus written by third parties to control custom workflows.

Referring now to shown is a schematic drawing depicting a medical sensing communication system according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The medical sensing communication system is similar to the medical sensing communication system shown in Like medical sensing communication system medical sensing communication system may be utilized to collect data from medical sensing devices in catheter room and transmit it to remote computing resources where it is processed and returned. However in system medical sensing devices collect and transmit medical sensing data to remote computing resources without the use of a bedside utility box BUB .

In more detail the patient may be undergoing a multi modality procedure in which IVUS data will be collected with the IVUS catheter and OCT data will be collected with the OCT catheter . In the system the IVUS catheter is communicatively coupled to an IVUS PIM . As mentioned above the IVUS catheter may be capable of multi modality sensing such as IVUS and IVPA and PIM may likewise capable of receiving multi mode sensor outputs. Without a BUB in system the IVUS PIM may itself be considered a patient communication system that is operable to receive medical sensing data collected by the IVUS catheter and transmit the received data onto the data network . As such the PIM is operable to perform similar functions that the PIM and BUB performed together in the patient communication system of . As shown IVUS PIM is coupled to the IVUS catheter via a wired connection. In alternative embodiments however the PIM catheter connection may be wired or wireless. In the illustrated embodiment the PIM includes an analog to digital A D converter and transmits digital data to the network via a wired connection. The IVUS PIM will be described in greater detail in association with .

The medical sensing communication system further includes a OCT PIM configured to receive OCT data from the OCT catheter . Like the IVUS PIM the OCT PIM may itself be considered a patient communication system in the absence of a BUB. The OCT PIM is operable to receive medical sensing data collected by the OCT catheter and transmit the received data onto the data network . As shown OCT PIM is coupled to the OCT catheter via a wired connection. In alternative embodiments however the PIM catheter connection may be wired or wireless. In the illustrated embodiment the PIM includes transmits digital data to the network via a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi connection or another high speed wireless connection.

The medical sensing communication system further includes a bedside control surface . The bedside control surface may be similar to the bedside control surface of in that it provides user control and displays images of the particular medical sensing modality or modalities being used to diagnose the patient . However in the current embodiment the bedside control surface communicates with the network via a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi connection or another high speed wireless connection. The bedside control surface is operable to wirelessly transmit workflow control information to the PIMs and via the network and also receive medical sensing data from the PIMs that has been processed by remote computing resources on the network . Because the bedside control surface is wireless it may be moved to a control room different catheter room or even a doctor s office as needed. Although two PIMs are depicted as part of system additional PIMs associated with different medical sensing modalities may be integrated in to system and communicatively coupled to the network without the use of a BUB.

Further after incoming medical sensing data has been digitized the controller routes it to the communication module which may be similar to the communication module in the BUB of . In some embodiments the controller may be operable to associate identifying information with the medical sensing data as it is routed to the communications module . More specifically the controller may create a plurality of digital messages from the incoming analog or digital data stream where each message contains a portion of the digitized medical sensing data and a header. The aforementioned U.S. Patent Application No. 61 473 591 entitled Distributed Medical Sensing System and Method discloses creating messages associating identifying information with medical sensing data in more detail. Further in some embodiments the controller may be operable to modify the medical data received from the medical sensing devices as it is routed to the communication module . For example in some embodiments the controller may compress the data before it is transmitted over the network . In some embodiments the controller may also be operable to filter incoming sensing data in some manner.

In embodiments in which the network is packet based the communication module is operable to packetize medical sensing data routed by and possibly digitized by the controller address the resulting packets and the send the packets out over the network via a socket . In the embodiments in which the controller segments incoming sensing data into messages the communication module may encapsulate the messages into TCP IP packets for transmission over the network . In some embodiments the PIM may wirelessly transmit unprocessed medical sensing data to the network like PIM and as such the communication module may be a wireless communication module. The PIM further includes a medical grade power supply unit PSU . The PSU provides power to the controller wireless module and the phased array transducers disposed on catheter via the catheter s connection to socket . In some embodiments the PSU may be able to dynamically deliver varying amounts of power to socket based on the type of catheter coupled to socket . For instance the PSU may include a secondary stage switching power converter similar to the power converters in the BUB of .

Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the present disclosure may be employed without a corresponding use of the other features. For example in some embodiments the medical sensing communication system may be used to process non cardiovascular diagnostic data such as data from cranial or peripheral arteries as well as data from non vascular body portions. Further the system may be used to collect and process MRI data or may be utilized in computer assisted surgery CAS applications. And as such the hub may be configured to communicatively couple medical tools related to non cardiovascular diagnostic data collection and analysis to a remote processing system. In this regard the hub may include any number of different and or additional connector types links and internal modules related to any number of medical fields. Further any number of additional mounting brackets may be coupled to the hub to position it in any number of positions within a medical procedure room or laboratory. Similarly in some embodiments the medical sensing communication system may be used to process non cardiovascular diagnostic data such data from cranial or peripheral arteries as well as data from non vascular body portions. Further the system may be used to collect and process MRI data or may be utilized in computer assisted surgery CAS applications. It is understood that such variations may be made in the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the present disclosure. It is understood that such variations may be made in the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the present disclosure.

