---

title: Fluid powered linear piston motor with harmonic coupling
abstract: A motor is disclosed that includes a module assembly including a piston that is axially cycled. The piston axial motion is coupled to torque couplers that convert the axial motion into rotary motion. The torque couplers are coupled to a rotor to rotate the rotor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09447798&OS=09447798&RS=09447798
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09447798
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140313
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 377 FLUID POWERED LINEAR PISTON MOTOR WITH HARMONIC COUPLING filed on Mar. 5 2014 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 785 539 AIR HYDRAULIC MOTOR WITH PISTON RECIRCULATING BALL TRANSFER MECHANISM filed Mar. 14 2013 and both are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

The present invention relates to the field of drilling and specifically to using a pressurized fluid to drive a rotational drill assembly.

Downhole drills are used for oil drilling geothermal drilling and other deep earth penetration applications. Downhole drills include rotary and percussive drills. For nearly any drilling method rotational energy must be transferred downhole in order to promote rock reduction. The drill bit may be rotated by an electric motor or fluid hydraulic system. The rotating action can be produced either at the surface or near the drill bit. In addition to rotational cutting drills may also be pressurized or mechanically actuated to force the drill bit to hammer against the rock earth. Prior art rotation systems and methods are complex require large form factors to create sufficient torque and require a high degree of maintenance.

The most common method of downhole energy transfer is rigid drill pipe. The drill pipe is rotated from the surface with drilling joints added for tripping moving in and out of the hole . For this type of system the entire drill string rotates. Typically a rotary table system or a top drive is used to drive the drill string. Although it is well suited for vertical drilling it has limited applications in directional drilling because the drill string curvature and thrust loads generate additional torque that the surface based motor must overcome and drill pipe survive.

Downhole techniques used to generate rotation such as positive displacement motors PDMs are limited in their temperature range due to the use of elastomers. Energy resources like geothermal and deep oil and gas wells lie in hot 160 C. 300 C. and often hard rock. The high temperatures limit the use of PDM s in those environments.

What is needed is a drill rotation system and method that overcomes the limitations of the prior art.

According to an embodiment of the invention a motor is disclosed that includes a housing and a piston drive section disposed within the housing. The piston drive section includes a rotor and a module assembly disposed around the rotor. The module assembly includes a piston assembly having a first end and a second end a first and second torque couplers coupled to the first and second ends of the piston assembly respectively and further coupled to the rotor. Axial motion of the piston assembly within the housing causes the first and second torque couplers to rotate the rotor

According to another embodiment of the invention a drill assembly is disclosed that includes a housing a piston drive section disposed within the housing an output section coupled to the piston drive section and a drill bit coupled to the output section. The piston drive section includes a rotor and a module assembly disposed around the rotor. The module assembly includes a piston assembly having a first end and a second end and first and second torque couplers coupled to the first and second ends of the piston assembly respectively and further coupled to the rotor. Axial motion of the piston assembly within the housing causes the first and second torque couplers to rotate the rotor.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method of powering a motor is disclosed that includes providing a pressured fluid to an inlet of a rotor housing of a rotor of the motor porting the pressured fluid to a first chamber of a piston assembly disposed around the rotor at an initial position to drive a piston of the piston assembly in a first axial direction in the housing by the pressurized fluid porting the pressurized fluid from the first chamber to an exhaust manifold disposed within the rotor housing and porting additional pressurized fluid to a second chamber of the piston assembly disposed around the rotor to drive the piston in a second axial direction opposite the first axial direction to return the piston to the initial position.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

In this exemplary embodiment the piston drive section includes one spacer . In another embodiment the piston drive section may include one or more spacers located at one or more positions axially along the rotor assembly . In another embodiment spacers may be replaced with another module to increase the output power of the fluid motor .

The rotor housing also has an outer surface and an inner surface . The outer surface includes splines disposed on the surface thereof. In this exemplary embodiment the outer surface has splines substantially covering the entire outer surface . In another embodiment the outer surface may have splines covering only a portion of the outer surface .

The rotor housing also includes pressure ports that allow a fluid to pass from the inner surface to the outer surface . In this exemplary embodiment the rotor housing includes three pressure ports . As can be seen in the pressure ports include an opening into the inner surface and a radial slot in the outer surface of the rotor housing . The radial slot provides for increased fluid collection over the surface of the rotor housing . In another embodiment the rotor housing may include one or more pressure ports .

The rotor housing also includes exhaust ports that allow a fluid to pass from the outer surface to the inner surface . In this exemplary embodiment the rotor housing includes three exhaust ports . As can be seen in the exhaust ports include an opening into the inner surface and a radial slot in the outer surface of the rotor housing . The radial slot provides for increased fluid collection over the surface of the rotor housing . In another embodiment the rotor housing may include one or more exhaust ports .

The rotor housing also includes fastener openings between the outer surface and the inner surface that allow a fastener to attach the exhaust manifold to the rotor housing .

The first port junction is fluidly connected the second port junction by a first exhaust pipe . The second port junction is fluidly connected to the port collar by a second exhaust pipe . In another embodiment the first and second exhaust pipes may be replaced with a single exhaust tube that has corresponding ports.

The first port junction includes an end cap for sealing a first end of fluid passage . The first port junction also includes a first exhaust port for allowing a fluid to enter the fluid passageway and a first fastener attachment point for allowing the first port junction to be attached to the rotor housing see .

The second port junction includes a second exhaust port for allowing a fluid to enter the fluid passageway and a second fastener attachment point for allowing the second port junction to be attached to the rotor housing see .

The port collar includes a third exhaust port for allowing a fluid to enter the fluid passageway and a collar attachment point for allowing the port collar to be attached to the rotor housing see .

As can be seen in the exhaust manifold is configured so that the port collar creates a seal between the exhaust manifold and the rotor . Referencing it can be seen that in such a manner the through passage is divided into a pressure chamber A and an exhaust chamber B. As the exhaust manifold is open to the through passage at open end and closed at closed end the through passage is part of the exhaust chamber B.

In this exemplary embodiment the rotor assembly has three pressure and exhaust ports with the first pressure and exhaust ports being covered or sealed by the sleeve . In another embodiment the rotor assembly may be configured with one or more pressure and exhaust ports corresponding to the number of module assemblies.

As can be seen in a pressurized fluid may enter the pressure chamber A and be available to be discharged outside of the rotor housing through pressure ports and a pressurized fluid may be collected through exhaust ports into exhaust chamber B to be exhausted from the rotor housing .

Referring again to the first and second torque couplers are disposed over the first and second harmonic cams of the piston assembly . The first and second torque couplers which have the same size and shape include an outside surface and an inside surface . The inside surface includes a splined surface for engaging the splines of the rotor see . In such a manner rotation of the first and second torque couplers rotates the rotor . The inside surface also includes a guide ball . The inside surface is in contact with bearings not shown in for reducing friction between the first and second torque couplers and the piston assembly .

The first and second harmonic cams have the same geometry and shape. The first and second harmonic cams have an outside surface that includes a curved ridge . The curved ridge circumferentially surrounds the outer surface to produce a cam surface. The cam surface uses a surface of revolution that follows a sine wave. The cam surface can be prescribed using harmonic motion cycloidal or other methods commonly used in cam design. The first and second harmonic cams also have an inside surface that mates to the outside surface of the piston assembly body thereby preventing any rotational movement between first and second harmonic cams and the piston assembly body .

The piston assembly body will be discussed using an end view reference grid as shown on . In this reference grid top dead center TDC is 0 degrees 0 . As can be seem in the piston assembly body includes a first side surface and a second side surface separated by collar and at least partially defining a first chamber and a second chamber respectively. The first and second chambers are defined between face of the piston assembly collar and a corresponding bearing . The bearing includes a baffle plate not shown to provide a pressure seal. The piston body includes a first chamber pressure inlet located at 270 a first chamber pressure outlet located at 180 a second chamber pressure outlet located at 0 and a second chamber pressure inlet located at 90 . The first and second chamber pressure inlets and outlets are slots in the piston assembly body that extend through the piston assembly body from the outside surface to the inside surface . The first and second chamber pressure inlets are aligned with pressure port when module is assembled on the rotor assembly . The first and second pressure outlets and are aligned with exhaust ports when module is assembled on the rotor assembly .

Referencing it can be seen that the first and second chambers are the empty volume between the collar and the opposing bearings respectively. The bearings create a seal between the module assembly and the housing . As the collar moves away from each chamber the volume increases as fluid expands into the volume. As the collar move towards each volume the volume decreases as the fluid is exhausted from the volume.

The fluid flow paths during a cycle of the piston assembly will now be described referencing . illustrates the second module in position on the rotor assembly in an initial position of a cycle. Note that the view of has been rotated 90 from the view shown in . As can be seen in the collar is nearly contacting the first torque coupler . Protrusions on the piston assembly collar are received in grooves not shown in the housing that allow the piston assembly to axially or linearly move in the housing but not allowing the piston assembly to rotate in the housing .

At this initial point of the cycle as shown in the pressurized fluid is following the path indicated by arrow A. As can be seen in the pressurized fluid is flowing towards the piston assembly via through passage of the rotor housing exits pressure port passes through the pressure inlet slot of the valve sleeve and enters first pressure inlet see also into the first chamber . Pressure in the first chamber forces the piston assembly in the direction indicated by arrow B. Simultaneously fluid from the second chamber is exhausted as shown by arrow C via second pressure outlet to the exhaust outlet slot and exhaust port and into the through passage of the rotor housing . The exhausted fluid is then received by the outlet section .

As the piston assembly travels in the direction of arrow B the ball travels along the curved ridge shown in note that has 0 TDC of the second harmonic cam. As the ball follows the curved ridge and the piston assembly continues to travel the second torque coupler rotates in the direction shown by arrow D. The rotation of the second torque coupler rotates the rotor assembly in same direction D. The rotation of the rotor assembly rotates the first torque coupler in the same direction D.

As the piston assembly travels in the direction of arrow B the ball travels along the curved ridge of the first harmonic cam shown on . As the ball follows the curved ridge and the piston assembly continues to travel the first torque coupler rotates in the direction shown by arrow D. The rotation of the first torque coupler rotates the rotor assembly in same direction D. The rotation of the rotor assembly rotates the second torque coupler in the same direction D.

The cycle is repeated to continuously rotate the rotor assembly . It should be noted that the positioning of the pressure inlet slot and the exhaust outlet slot on the valve sleeve see may be extended or retracted to time the input and exhaust of fluid to dynamically tune the cycling of the rotor assembly . Multiple modules are clocked or timed circumferentially by receiving and discharging fluid to provide continuous power distribution to the rotor assembly.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

