---

title: Managing personal information on a network
abstract: Devices, systems, and methods are provided for managing personal information by providing a centralized source or database for a user's information and enabling the user to regulate privacy levels for each information item or category of information. Templates are provided as a table of hierarchies or an onion layers model. Private information may be stored in an inner layer while public information may be stored in an outer layer, and multiple layers and categories can be defined and customized within the template. A requesting entity requests information via a disseminating server that acts as a gateway for authenticating, authorizing, and providing access to the requesting entity. The user may therefore control and regulate their online presence simply by monitoring who requests their information and adjusting privacy levels accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361478&OS=09361478&RS=09361478
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09361478
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 539 323 filed Jun. 30 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 713 638 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The subject disclosure relates to managing personal information on a network. More specifically the subject disclosure relates to managing layers of permissions for various information items associated with a user.

As the information age progresses an increasing concern is privacy of personal information. For instance many websites on the World Wide Web WWW require a user to input or submit personal information before providing content. This personal information along with other data of a user such as pictures videos user preferences etc. becomes subject to the control and domain of the website hosting such information. More importantly this information is explicitly removed from the user s domain as anyone who has submitted content to a website can confirm upon reading the terms and conditions. Further users frequently electronically disseminate data to entities such as medical records to insurance companies and medical professionals or financial data to lenders etc. This information is again under the dominion and control of the entity requesting such information. With increasing reports of security breaches of databases phishing and identity theft the lack of control a user has over their own personal information is a growing cause for concern.

The subject disclosure presents devices systems and methods for managing personal information by providing a centralized source or database for a user s information and enabling the user to regulate privacy levels for each information item or category of information. Private information may be stored in an inner layer while public information may be stored in an outer layer with the ability to define and customize multiple layers and categories within the database. A requesting entity requests information via a disseminating server that acts as a gateway for authenticating authorizing and providing access to the requesting entity. The user may therefore control and regulate their online presence simply by monitoring who requests their information and adjusting privacy levels accordingly.

In one example embodiment the subject disclosure is a system including a server on a network the server including at least one processor and a computer readable medium coupled to the processor the computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that are executed by the processor to perform operations including receiving an information item the information item being associated with a user and including a preference the preference identifying at least one of a privacy layer and a category and storing the information item in a template associated with the user wherein a communication device operated by the user is provided with an interface to customize a plurality of privacy layers and categories within the template for managing personal information on a network.

In another example embodiment the subject disclosure is a method implemented on a server including at least one processor that performs operations including receiving a request for an information item from a requesting device the information item being associated with a user and including a preference the preference identifying at least one of a privacy layer and a category the information item being stored in a template associated with the user and disseminating from the server the information item to the requesting device.

In yet another example embodiment the subject disclosure is a computer readable medium coupled to a server on a network the computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that are executed by the server to perform operations including receiving a request for an information item from a requesting device the information item being associated with a user and including at least one of a privacy layer and a category authenticating the request and converting the information item to a format based on a format requirement of the requesting device. The information item may be stored in a template having a plurality of privacy layers and categories that are definable via a user interface on a communication device operated by the user.

The subject disclosure presents systems and methods for managing personal information on a network. A user s personal information may be stored on a database in communication with a server on a network. The personal information may be stored within a template associated with the user. A template may include various categories and privacy layers. Each privacy layer may have a different permission trust level or key associated with it. The template may be user defined or may be provided to the user by a service provider hosting the server. The template may be user definable via an interface hosted on the server and accessible via a communication device operated by the user. A personal information item or information item may be uploaded to the database by the user or by any other entity. The user may upload the information item along with a preference as to the category and the privacy layer of the information item. The privacy layer may correspond to a trust level of an entity requesting the information. The preference of category and or privacy layer may be indicated using tags. An information item uploaded by any other entity via for instance a communication device operated by the entity may be subject to the user s approval and preference. Upon receiving the information item and or the user s approval the server may store the information item in the appropriate section of the template on the database.

The server may include logic to disseminate the information item to a requesting entity. The dissemination logic may act as a gateway for receiving an information request from a device operated by the requesting entity authenticating the requesting entity and if the authentication is successful disseminating or transmitting the information item to the device operated by the requesting entity. Alternatively or concurrently the dissemination logic may simply allow the requesting entity access to the particular information item on the personal information database. The authentication may include comparing a key or other unique identifier included in the received information request with an authentication database. The key may be provided to the requesting entity at a time before the request is made and may indicate a trust level of the requesting entity for the user. The key may grant the requesting entity access to the information item and potentially to other information items sharing the same privacy layer of the requested information item. The server may further include conversion logic for converting a format of the information item. The conversion logic may be invoked based on a format requirement of the requesting entity. The format requirement may be defined in the authentication database or may be included in the information request. The information request may be submitted via an application programming interface API . The information request may further be logged by the server enabling the user to monitor a record of information requests and correspondingly adjust the privacy layers of their personal information items.

Dissemination server may act as a gateway to process incoming information requests from third parties such as a healthcare professional a lender or a social network . Dissemination server may include logic for receiving and processing requests and an authentication database for storing authentication information related to known requesting entities to store information requests etc. The user may specify trust levels for certain entities as being able to access information items within the restricted layer. Examples of trust levels include family friends colleagues clients and so on. The user may define a privacy layer for each trust level. The user may further provide via server or via any other mechanism a key or other unique identifier to their closest friends. These friends may either directly or via social network attempt to access the photo stored on database . As further described below and with reference to server receives a request for an information item from these entities determines that a key included within the request is authentic and matches the privacy layer of the item requested and enables access to the item. The key may be authenticated by comparing it with a table of keys in authentication database . A record of the requesting entity such as a friend on a social network may be stored in authentication database . Similarly a record for each entity may be stored on authentication database and used to authenticate the respective requesting entity. Alternatively or if no such record is stored the key is simply compared with a key table or other similar mechanism to authenticate the requesting entity.

Further the request may include an indicator of a desired format for the request. For instance financial records may be requested in a text based format such as XML. A form or template may be included with the request the template having readily identifiable fields for specific types of information such as credit card information medical records passwords etc. Other data may be included within the request. Consequently dissemination logic may further include a conversion engine for converting a format of the information item into a format accessible for the particular requesting entity. The conversion engine may follow formatting requirements included in the request or may retrieve pre defined formatting requirements stored in authentication database . For instance these pre defined requirements may be provided on a contractual basis from one of requesting entities at a time before any information is requested such as the user signing up for an account with social network etc. Any formatting requirements included in the request may further be saved in authentication database for faster conversion the next time a request is received from that particular entity. Moreover a template for most commonly used or popular entities may be predefined and stored by a service provider in anticipation of a request for information from the particular entity. The conversion engine would only be invoked if a non standard request is received.

Further a record of the request is stored in a log on database or another storage device. This log is accessible to user via communication device or any other device and provides user with historical insights on how often and by whom their personal information has been requested. User may correspondingly modify the privacy layers for particular information items or categories. User may further modify the entries in a key table or other authentication database stored on database . Modification of these entries enable user to control and regulate privacy layers and or trust levels for various entities as well as being able to unsubscribe or completely block a particular entity simply by removing the associated entry from database . Further since the user s personal information is never published externally but simply disseminated or granted access to upon removing an entry or unsubscribing from a service provided by an entity that entity will no longer have any control or access to the user s personal information stored in database .

Communication between the communication device and network may be accomplished via wired or wireless technology such as WI FI cellular broadband etc. Consequently communication device may include appropriate transceivers such as network adapters subscriber identity module SIM or universal integrated circuit cards UICC etc. Further communication devices such as device or other devices operated by entities may have more than one transceiver capable of communicating over different networks. For example a cellular telephone can include a cellular transceiver for communicating with a cellular base station a WI FI transceiver for communicating with a Wi Fi network and a BLUETOOTH transceiver for communicating with a BLUETOOTH device. Communication devices such as device may further be equipped with the appropriate hardware and logic required to connect to a network. Software is one example of such logic. Logic may also be comprised by digital and or analog hardware circuits for example hardware circuits comprising logical AND OR XOR NAND NOR and other logical operations. Logic may be formed from combinations of software and hardware. On network logic such as logic and may be programmed on a combination of servers and or a complex of servers. A particular logic unit is not limited to a single logical location on the telecommunication network. Further network includes broadband wide area networks such as cellular networks local area networks LAN and personal area networks such as near field communication NFC networks including BLUETOOTH or any combination thereof. A network typically includes a plurality of elements that host logic for performing tasks on the network.

Then the user may be prompted S that an authenticated entity has provided new information to be stored in the user s personal database. This prompt S may be in the form of an electronic notification such as an email text message etc. and may include a request to the user to transmit his or her preferences for the information item. The preferences may include the user s selection of a privacy layer and or a category for the information item. Other preferences may be provided. These preferences may be received S at the network. A determination may be made at S as to whether or not the preference is new. A new preference may be one that has not yet been defined in a customized template. If the preference is new a new category or privacy layer may be created S in the user s template. This creation S may be as simple as allotting a particular folder or storage space for additional information items matching these preferences or may include creating a new set of fields in a database having new permissions and associated keys for said information item. In either case the received information item may be stored in the preferred category or layer S. On the other hand if no preference is defined a default layer may be used. The default layer may be specified by the user as being open to the public completely private until a preference is defined or some combination thereof. The method may then end unless it is determined S that an additional item is to be uploaded in which case the method may return to the server receiving new information S.

Image may be uploaded via any means to server on a network. Logic on server may receive image and may parse the tags to determine how to store image . Further logic may be in communication with logic via any means and may even provide the interface viewed by user on communication device . In either case logic may determine the appropriate category privacy layer for image based on tags and may store the image in the appropriate portion of the user s template on personal information database . Logic may also determine as described above that certain tags are new and appropriately create a new category or layer to house the new tags.

Within each category are four privacy layers. Information items may be uploaded and stored per category and in the appropriate privacy layer indicated by the user. For instance picture in may be stored in the recreational category and within the public layer of privacy as per the tags specified by the user. The restricted layer may be used to store items that are somewhat private but not excessively so such as family photos memos non confidential correspondence etc. The user may specify entities or groups of entities that are allowed access to the restricted layer while the general public would be restricted access. The secured layer would be more private than the restricted layer and may be used to store information for more specific purposes. For instance confidential correspondence intellectual property or tax medical records may be stored in this layer. To access secured information items an entity may have to provide a specific key that may have been disclosed to the entity upon the user s choice. For instance the user may have a family physician that may require access to certain medical records. Although these medical records may be secured and unavailable to the public the physician may be provided with a key he can use to access this information at any time. Further the user may specify conditions for access such as time limited access or access from a particular network. These and other conditions may be specified by the user upon uploading the information item upon customizing template upon generating and providing the access key to the physician or other requesting entity and any combination thereof. Finally the private category may be completely inaccessible to anybody except for the users themselves. This category may be used to store highly personal information items that need not be disseminated to anybody. The user may use this category as a personal repository for any data or items that he or she may need access to at any time a private cloud storage. Upon deciding that an information item needs to be shared with another entity the user may re assign that information item from the private category to the secured category.

Further access to a particular layer may include reading rights reading and writing rights deleting rights or modification rights. These rights may be defined by the user upon creation of template or upon providing the key to the requesting entity and may be stored on the personal information database authentication database or in any storage in communication with the server hosting the personal information database.

Further this type of model enables a user to create avatars or personas under which particular information items may be disseminated. In other words a requesting entity may never know the true identity of a person but simply an alternate identity or a persona. For instance a user s photographs taken as a result of his or her work as an amateur photographer may be stored under a unique personal identifiable merely as photographer or other name of the user s choice . Any entity requesting information in this category would be provided a key to access one or more privacy layers of the photographer s work without ever becoming privy to the actual identity of the user behind the persona. In another example a social network may request contact information for the user without ever knowing the user s real name since this information would be hidden behind an avatar presented to the social network. Consequently many types of identity thefts may be prevented since the unique ID associated with the user may be known only to the user and associated with the user s most secure information while other information may be assigned to an avatar or persona without publicly being associated with the user s unique ID. This type of intelligent avatar generation may be created at an outermost layer of an onion model such as template or any level of a template such as template . Further an externally defined list of avatars may enable a user to network and communicate with other avatars created by other users. Exchanging information between avatars particularly in the context of social networking may ensure that identity theft phishing or even unregulated sale or dissemination of the user s information does not occur or does not identify the user himself.

However if the key match S authenticates and matches the privacy layer of the item requested then the item may be accessed S from the user s personal information database. The requesting entity may have particular formatting requirements to convert the information item before dissemination. The dissemination logic may retrieve any record associated with the requesting entity S to determine whether or not such a requirement exists. For instance the formatting requirement may be in the form of a template provided by the requesting entity at a time before the request is received S. The template may be used as a guideline or instruction to convert the format of the information item S and to transmit the converted item to the requesting entity. If no template or pre defined formatting requirement is available then the request itself may be parsed to determine if it includes an indicator of a desired format for the request S. For instance financial records may be requested in a text based format such as XML. A form or template may be included with the request the template having readily identifiable fields for specific types of information such as credit card information medical records passwords etc. In alternate embodiments the request may be parsed S before a record of the requesting entity is checked for an existing template S.

In either case if no format is specified whether predefined or included within the request then a default or existing format may be used and the item transmitted as is S. Alternatively the default format may be predefined by the service provider. If a format is specified in the request the item may be converted into the specified format and transmitted S similar to the case where a template exists S. The conversion may occur using a conversion engine for converting the format of the information item into a format accessible for the particular requesting entity. Any formatting requirements included in the request may further be saved in an authentication database for faster conversion the next time a request is received from that particular entity.

Further a record of the request may be stored S within a request log in communication with the dissemination server or another storage device. This log may be accessible to the user via any communication device and provides the user with historical insights on how often and by whom their personal information has been requested as well as which information items were requested and which requests were denied in step S. The user may correspondingly modify the privacy layers for particular information items or categories by modifying the entries in a key table or other authentication database stored on the network. Modification of these entries may enable the user to control and regulate privacy layers and or trust levels for various entities as well as being able to unsubscribe or completely block a particular entity simply by removing the associated entry from the authentication database. Further since the user s personal information is never published externally but simply disseminated or access granted upon removing an entry or unsubscribing from a service provided by an entity the entity may no longer have any control or access to the user s personal information.

The user may further specify one or more preferences or attributes related to the information item. For instance a user may upload an image from their bachelor party that they wish only for their closest friends to be able to access. Instead of transmitting the image to a social network such as Facebook etc. the user may simply tag the photo as being restricted and upload the photo to the server which would retrieve the restricted preference and store the photo in the appropriate section of the personal information database. The user may specify detailed attributes for the item by selecting among tags . For instance the user may specify a type of item memo photo video if the type is not automatically detected. The user may select a privacy level for the item. The user may also select a category for the item and may tag the item with other tags such as descriptive keywords etc. enabling the item to be searched for using that tag or categorized in that portion of their template stored on the user s personal information database. Although the preferences in this instance are shown in the form of tags other means for identifying and selecting preferences may be possible via the user interface.

The user may then activate the send button to upload the image cancel button to cancel the upload and edit button to access more detailed settings such as communication preferences adding tags avatars etc. Upon activating send button the information item may be uploaded via any means to a server on a network. Management logic onboard the server may receive the information item and the user s preferences and determines how to store the information item based on the preferences. For instance the logic may determine an appropriate category privacy layer for the information item based on tags and store the item in the appropriate portion of the user s template on the personal information database. The logic may also determine as described above that certain tags are new and may appropriately create a new category or layer based on the new tags to store the item.

The user s personal information may not be limited to documents pictures and content that the user actively generates. The information may also include application usage data system information for troubleshooting cookies breadcrumbs other details call detail records location based information etc. Further although active and intentional uploading of data has been described automatic uploading of data may also be possible. For instance application crash data may be automatically uploaded to the user s personal information database so that it can be disseminated to developers and hardware software manufacturers to improve their services. The user may be able to adjust the frequency detail level and privacy of this automated process. Other automatic processes may include browsing data shopping data spending habits and other details that the user may wish to record but not necessarily disclose to other entities. The user may select to stop these automated processes at any time or enable permission for only specific entities such as for receiving coupons rewards and deals to have access to this information. Other automated processes may include the dissemination logic observing trends in a pattern of request from a specific entity and blocking or limiting the requesting entity if a deviation from the normal is determined. For instance a social networking website may be hacked and large amounts of personal data may be requested. In such a case the system may automatically remove the listing of that social network from the authentication database.

Some purchase and account information such as credit card details may be uploaded once and provided to merchants automatically rather than typing in the information every time. Certain personal information such as geographic location etc. may be generally private but with access permanently available to emergency personnel such as ambulances police etc. For instance police and rescue personnel may have a key that enables them to access the location as well as being able to switch on and receive audio and video signals from the user s mobile device features that would typically be maintained privately. Similarly a child s information may be accessible at all times by a parent whereas the parent s information may be subject to control and dominion of the parent enabling the child to view only selected content.

The foregoing disclosure of the example embodiments of the subject disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the subject disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Many variations and modifications of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the above disclosure. The scope of the subject disclosure is to be defined only by the claims appended hereto and by their equivalents.

Further in describing representative embodiments of the subject disclosure the specification may have presented the method and or process of the subject disclosure as a particular sequence of steps. However to the extent that the method or process does not rely on the particular order of steps set forth herein the method or process should not be limited to the particular sequence of steps described. As one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate other sequences of steps may be possible. Therefore the particular order of the steps set forth in the specification should not be construed as limitations on the claims. In addition the claims directed to the method and or process of the subject disclosure should not be limited to the performance of their steps in the order written and one skilled in the art can readily appreciate that the sequences may be varied and still remain within the spirit and scope of the subject disclosure.

