---

title: Hydrothermal synthesis of bismuth germanium oxide
abstract: A method for the hydrothermal synthesis of bismuth germanium oxide comprises dissolving a bismuth precursor (e.g., bismuth nitrate pentahydrate) and a germanium precursor (e.g., germanium dioxide) in water and heating the aqueous solution to an elevated reaction temperature for a length of time sufficient to produce the eulytite phase of bismuth germanium oxide (E-BGO) with high yield. The E-BGO produced can be used as a scintillator material. For example, the air stability and radioluminescence response suggest that the E-BGO can be employed for medical applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518219&OS=09518219&RS=09518219
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09518219
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140130
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to scintillator materials and in particular to a method for the hydrothermal synthesis of bismuth germanium oxide.

Since the first report of bismuth germanium oxide BiGeaOor BGO as a scintillator material in 1973 this material has slowly started to replace the ubiquitous thallium doped sodium iodide NaI Tl in many of its applications. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 and E. Dieguez et al 18 4777 1985 . Some of the properties that have led to this substitution include the good stopping power of the high Z numbered Bi high density 7.112 g cm robust nature hardness 5 Mho air stability non hygroscopic radiation hardness stable to 5.1 10Gy small afterglow 0.005 after 3 ms rapid rise decay time high scintillation efficiency good energy resolution 5 20 MeV low self absorption photofraction and a four times larger absorption coefficient. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 E. Dieguez et al. 18 4777 1985 C. W. E. van Eijk 460 1 2001 and G. C. Santana et al. 42 2231 2007 . Even though BGO has only 20 of the light emission of NaI Tl the maximum occurs at 480 nm and covers a wide range of wavelengths 375 to 650 nm which leaves a significant amount of the emission above 500 nm. Although this may not be favorable for scintillation collection by photomultiplier tubes this broad emission can be effectively collected by new avalanche photodiode arrays. Furthermore BGO produces 8500 photons per 1 MeV of high energy radiation that it absorbs. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 E. Dieguez et al. 18 4777 1985 and C. W. E. van Eijk 460 1 2001 . Combined these properties make BGO interesting for scintillator applications that require detection of low amounts of emitting material.

While there are numerous phase diagrams reported for BGO four main phases are reported sillenite BiGeO aurivillius BiGeO eulytite BiGeO and benitoite BiGeO . See V. V. Zyryanov et al. 41 618 2005 . Of these the eulytite E BGO phase is desired for scintillator applications based on its inherent properties. Since BGO has a cubic structure and is optically isotropic polycrystalline ceramic components will not demonstrate light scattering at the grain boundaries. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 . Thus the production of E BGO polycrystalline materials offers an attractive alternative to the conventional laborious single crystal BGO scintillators. In addition the smaller the size of the E BGO particles the higher the surface area is expected which can significantly reduce the sintering temperature and promote the densification process. Combined these properties can inhibit the formation of oxygen vacancies that can otherwise degrade the optical quality of BGO components. See A. F. Shimanskii and M. N. Vasil eva 42 20 2001 and M. G. Kisteneva et al. 55 444 2012 . Further the synthesis of phase pure E BGO powders can replace non stoichiometric BGO starting powders thereby leading to higher quality single crystal optical components and facilitating the fabrication of low cost high volume BGO ceramic scintillators and or large size ray detectors. See I. I. Novoselov et al. 49 412 2013 .

Several routes have been reported for the production of E BGO. Typically these methods follow the established Czochralski process to grow large single crystals of BGO in cube or cylindrical forms. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 and E. Dieguez et al. 18 4777 1985 . Otherwise synthetic routes to BGO are limited to melts mechanochemical and solution routes. See I. I. Novoselov et al. 49 412 2013 M. Ishii and M. Kobayashi 23 245 1991 M. T. Borowiec et al. 5136 26 2003 G. C. Santana et al. 42 2231 2007 V. V. Zyryanov et al. 41 618 2005 Z. S. Macedo and A. C. Hernandes 85 1870 2002 Z. S. Macedo et al. 218 153 2003 T. K. Tseng University of Florida 2010 and D. E. Kozhbakhteeva and N. I. Leonyuk 5 621 2003 . There are reports of the solid state synthesis of the metal oxides that successfully generated nano BGO Eu. The two solution routes reported were of interest since they are a convenient method for production of large scale powders and have reportedly demonstrated control over the phase and morphology based on the choice of surfactants and solution pH. See S. Polosan et al. 4 1503 2010 . Both routes employ nitric acid HNO to minimize bismuth reduction following solvothermal SOLVO and solution precipitation SPPT methodologies. See D. E. Kozhbakhteeva and N. I. Leonyuk J. 5 621 2003 and T. K. Tseng University of Florida 2010 . Therefore both methods require the addition of HNOand other reagents that can lead to trace impurities. The SOLVO route yields crystals up to 500 nm in size from a mixture of the metal oxides BiOand GeO that are slurried in aqueous ammonium fluoride NHF in the presence of HNOand heated at 310 C. at 20 50 MPa. See D. E. Kozhbakhteeva and N. I. Leonyuk 5 621 2003 . In contrast the SPPT route involves the dissolution of GeOand Bi NO in HNO dilution with urea and water and heating the reaction mixture to 90 C. followed by the addition of sodium hydroxide. The initial 2 min material isolated from this complex reaction mixture was found to be amorphous but heating for 1 hour led to phase pure BGO. After decanting and heating to 500 C. flower like BOO crystals were isolated with a trace of the sillenite impurity reported. See T. K. Tseng University of Florida 2010 .

However a need remains for a simple method to synthesize phase pure E BGO powders following a solution route that does not require additional thermal treatment.

The present invention is directed to a simple hydrothermal synthesis route to the eulytite phase of bismuth germanium oxide E BGO Bi GeO that requires no post processing. In a preferred method the E BGO material is produced from a mixture of bismuth nitrate pentahydrate and a slight excess of GeOin water that is reacted under hydrothermal conditions. The excess GeOcan be added to prevent sub stoichiometric phases during synthesis. Phase pure sub millimeter sized particles can be formed in as little as 12 hours of processing at 185 C. Any residual GeOcan be easily removed by washing with water or from thermal treatment. While no post processing is necessary entrapped water and residual GeOcan be removed by thermal processing. The pure E BGO is thermally stable but a change in orientation can occur due to crystal growth. The E BGO powder melts at 1034 C. Luminescence properties of the E BGO are similar to single crystal excitation and emissions. In particular photoluminescence spectra from the E BGO materials exhibit a strong emission peak consistent with an X ray induced luminescence of a single crystal e.g. emission at 500 nm excited at 285 nm . The cathodoluminescence of the E BGO displays a broad band spectrum with a maximum at 487 nm. The cathodoluminescent response is unexpectedly bright and falls relatively close to pure white light. Lanthanide dopants can be added to alter the emission and excitation maxima.

A method of the present invention for the hydrothermal synthesis of bismuth germanium oxide comprises dissolving a bismuth precursor and a germanium precursor in water and heating the aqueous solution to an elevated reaction temperature for a length of time sufficient to produce the eulytite phase of bismuth germanium oxide. In general the bismuth and germanium precursors are soluble in water and stable to redox under hydrothermal conditions i.e. the precursors will not decompose or be reduced to metal . For example the bismuth precursor can be a bismuth nitrate or acetate. For example the germanium precursor can be germanium dioxide. In general the aqueous solution is preferably heated to a reaction temperature in the range of 150 200 C. although lower and higher temperatures can also be used.

As an example of the invention Bi NO .5HO 8.25 g 17.0 mmol was added to a TEFLON liner of a 100 mL PARR digestion bomb filled with 75 mL of HO TEFLON is a registered trademark of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company for nonstick coating systems PARR is a registered trademark of Parr Instrument Company for laboratory instruments and apparatus including a variety of pressure vessels . GeO 1.47 g 14.0 mmol was added to this mixture and another 15 mL HO of water were added followed by gentle stirring. The bomb was then sealed and placed in an oven at 185 C. After heating for 24 h the bomb was removed and allowed to cool to room temperature. The contents were centrifuged the mother liquor decanted off and the remaining powder washed 3 times with HO. The remaining white precipitate was dried under vacuum 10Torr until a free flowing powder resulted. As described below the resulting powder was identified as submicron sized E BGO. The method yielded 81.4 4.31 g of powder. The bulk materials isolated from the above synthesis were further characterized by powder X ray diffraction PXRD scanning electron microscopy SEM transmission electron diffraction TEM density photoluminescence PL cathodoluminescence CL and radioluminescence RL analyses as described below.

As shown in the PXRD pattern of the powders generated according to the above hydrothermal synthesis method was found to be in good agreement with the E BGO phase BiGeO PDF 00 034 0416 . PDF refers to Powder Diffraction File entry found in the PDF4 2013 database of powder diffraction patterns maintained by the International Centre for Diffraction Data ICDD . While this process has been optimized to generate the eulytite material several other products were also identified in earlier less successful synthesis attempts including Bi GeO PDF 01 074 9425 Bi GeO PDF 01 074 9426 BiGeO PDF 00 043 0216 Bi GeO PDF 00 036 0289 . In addition several contaminants were also noted for un optimized syntheses including Bi O OH NO .1.5HO PDF 00 053 1038 as shown in and GeO PDF 04 010 4456 as shown in . See Z. S. Macedo and A. C. Hernandes 85 1870 2002 . The Bi contaminant can be removed by the addition of a 10 excess of GeOstarting materials and any residual GeOcan be easily removed with successive washes with water.

As shown in optical images of the optimized E BGO samples revealed a shinny crystalline material that appears to consist of tetrahedral shaped particles. As shown in SEM analysis revealed similar shaped grains approaching 40 m in size. The surface of the particles was observed to be fairly smooth and appears quite faceted. As the magnification was increased some smaller particles were observed on the surface of some of the samples which appear as parallelepiped and irregular shaped plates. In addition smaller irregular shaped particles were noted in the background.

The phase pure material necessary to generate a high quality single crystal should possess both high optical quality and high density to minimize light scatter due to porosity and refractive index mismatch at the interface of the second phase. The E BGO powders synthesized according to the present invention can be used as seed materials since they are phase pure. Other methods often produce materials that suffer from mixed phases or lower densities even after high temperature annealing . See I. I. Novoselov et al. 49 412 2013 . In addition the density of the BGO powder was measured at room temperature using a He pycnometer and found to be 6.982 3 . This is equivalent to 98.18 of the theoretical density of 7.112 g cmdetermined by X ray density for a single crystal.

The luminescence properties of the bulk E BGO powders were measured to verify their utility as a scintillator. As shown in excitation Ex and emission Em peaks were observed at 287.5 and 492.5 nm respectively. These photoluminescence spectra are consistent with the literature reports. See W. M. Yen et al. 2nd ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 C. W. E. van Eijk 460 1 2001 T. K. Tseng University of Florida 2010 and O. M. Bordun 63 97 1996 . The initial hydrothermal E BGO powders were also pressed into pellets in 6 mm 16K psi prior to additional thermal treatments. Pressing of the E BGO did not alter the phase as determined by PXRD. Using a handheld UV lamp with an excitation source of 254 nm the pellets were found to emit a greenish luminescence at room temperature. These pellets were used for all subsequent luminescent analyses.

The catholuminescence response for the E BGO crystals prepared by a low concentration route as shown in . The spectroscopic emission for these crystals is similar to their PL response with a broad band emission with its maximum at 487 nm. These results indicate that the E BGO can be effective for both detection of photonic and ionization excitation sources. Therefore this material can be used for phosphor electroluminescence X ray imaging and scintillation detection applications. shows a chromaticity emission spectrum with the dark circle indicating where this E BGO sample falls in this spectrum. The overall emission color was calculated according to International Commission on Illumination CIE color space with color coordinates of 0.238 x 0.321 y which is a slightly bluish white. This broad emission comes from a single phase sample not a combination of three phosphors as it is commonly used in solid state lighting applications. To move closer to standard D65 daylight with coordinates of 0.3129 x 0.3292 y an effective red shift dopant such as a lanthanide e.g. Eu can be added to render a better white light emitting characteristic. The radioluminescence induced by the X ray excitation is consistent with the CL response as both of these sources produce ionization luminescence however the RL response confirms the potential of this material for medical applications. See N. Katoh et al. 82 e671 2012 .

The band gap of the E BGO powders was determined using a Tauc plot to reveal the optical absorption spectrum of a material. In a Tauc plot a single phase material will have a distinct absorption onset as defined by a nearly linear region in the plot that yields the energy of the optical band gap of the sample. The diffuse reflectance spectrum was converted to a Kubelka Munk function F R which is proportional to the absorption coefficient . F R was then substituted into Tauc Eq. 2 where Eis the optical band gap and h is the photon energy. Fitting routines were performed by plotting h F R versus h for the BGO powder where the intersection of the uprising curve to the horizontal axis is the estimated E optical band gap . See J. Tauc et al. 15 627 1996 . 2 From the plot shown in and using the Kubelka Munk function and Tauc Eq. 2 the estimated band gap is 3.64 eV. This is in agreement with the reported literature value of 3.6 eV. See S. Polosan et al. 13 49 2011 . The exponent n 2 derived from the Tauc plot suggests the transition is an indirect allowed transition. Therefore the bandgap of the powders generated according to the present invention are in good agreement with other high quality single crystal materials. Since the estimated band gap is 3.64 eV 361 nm it is not surprising that all of the emission spectra are the same regardless of whether the emission was induced by photoexcitation 287.5 nm or 4.31 eV CL 4 20 eV or X ray 8 eV as these excitations all exceeded the band gap and therefore produced the same host excitation.

The thermal stability of the E BGO powders was studied to determine if it is adequate for higher temperature processing that may be necessary for specific applications. Initially a thermogravimetric analysis TGA spectrum was obtained to determine if any melts crystallization or decomposition pathways could be elucidated. shows first pass TGA and differential scanning calorimetry DSC plots of a sample. From all samples studied a two step weight loss of average 0.75 was noted. The first weight loss was attributed to entrapped water while the second step was attributed to the loss of GeO. Up to 1000 C. there were no additional weight losses or thermal events recorded indicating the stability of the E BGO powder. An endotherm was noted in the DSC at 1034 C. which is consistent with the literature report for the bulk E BGO melting point of 1049.85 C. A sample that was heat treated to 950 C. followed by cooling and reheating demonstrated no additional weight loss but the same melting point. This indicates that any trace impurities can be removed by a low temperature heat process and that the E BGO material is relatively stable up to its melting point.

In some instances thermal processing of the powders led to increased phase separation of what was originally relatively pure material. VT PXRD experiments were undertaken to explain this phenomenon while elucidating the various phase changes that occurred during thermal processing. Two samples were analyzed an initial sample from unoptimized E BGO and an optimized E BGO. is a VT PXRD scan of an unoptimized green E BGO powder with Bi containing contaminants. The initial sample investigated revealed a PXRD pattern that was E BGO with the presence of a bismuth oxide nitrate hydroxide hydrate Bi O OH NO .1.5HO PDF 00 053 1038 and bismuth oxide nitrate hydroxide Bi NO O PDF 04 013 4109 contaminant. These impurities are not unexpected with the stoichiometric synthesis originally used and the fact that these phases can be prepared hydrothermally at 190 C. for 24 hours from Bi NO .5 HO and HO . See N. Henry et al. 60b 322 2005 . Two different atmospheres air or N were employed to determine how they would impact phase formation during the heat treatment cycle. For both samples the major E BGO component could be observed throughout the heat treatment but the behavior of the sample s impurities revealed some interesting changes. Careful evaluation of the VT PXRD scans revealed changes occur as the room temperature sample was heated under flowing UHP N . The Bi O OH NO .1.5HO phase decomposes at about 220 C. This is quickly followed by the formation of a nano grained broad peak unidentified by product which is thought to be a high Bi containing intermediate i.e. aurivillius PDF 04 011 0087 . The presence of excess Bi as a result of the decomposition of the Bi O OH NO .1.5HO appears to drive a reaction of this Bi rich phase with the eulytite phase. This results in the degradation of the E BGO fraction and the growth of a Bi rich sillenite phase. The same sample heated under an air atmosphere showed nearly identical behavior. Therefore alternative syntheses were necessary to optimize the E BGO route and minimize Bi contaminant. This was accomplished using excess GeO.

The thermal data suggests that the E BGO material is stable over the temperature range investigated. Samples of the optimized E BGO powder were fired at 125 450 and 650 C. under circumjacent atmospheres and the resulting PXRD patterns demonstrated E BGO was isolated. However there were some distinct changes in the orientation of powder noted during the processing. In particular the 450 C. samples showed the most prominent changes probably due to the loss of both HO and GeOand subsequent recrystallization. The density of the 650 C. treated material was also analyzed by He pyncometry analysis and was found to be 6.978 3 g cc which is equivalent to a 98.12 of the theoretical density of 7.112 g cc determined by X ray density for a single crystal. The consistency of the density of the E BGO from room temperature to high temperature processing further indicates the stability and quality of the as synthesized E BGO.

Samples were prepared using different processing parameters to determine the concentration of the optimized reaction mixture. The samples were synthesized as described above but with different amounts of precursor materials. Three samples were run a low concentration the amount of precursors b standard concentration i.e. 0.18 M bismuth nitrate pentahydrate and 0.15 M germanium dioxide and c high concentration 2 times the amount of precursor . The resulting powders were analyzed by PXRD and all proved to be phase pure E BGO. As shown in SEM images of the powders were collected to investigate any potential variations in morphology. The powders all appear similar in size and shape however as the concentration is increased smaller fragments can be observed on the particle surface. The different sample preparations did not significantly alter the spectroscopic response of BGO. That is the locations of the excitation Ex and emission Em maxima were approximately the same for each sample investigated small shifts due to selected local maxima were noted and consistent with the literature reports of bulk E BGO. See W. M. Yen et al. 2ed. CRC Press Taylor Francis Group Boca Raton 2007 C. W. E. van Eijk 460 1 2001 T. K. Tseng University of Florida 2010 and O. M. Bordun 63 97 1996 . However a significant impact on light output was noted between these samples. The BOO sample prepared by low concentration had well developed facet surfaces and a higher light output. The standard concentration performed similar to the low whereas the high concentration suffered a decrease in performance. shows the excitation and emission peaks of the high and the low concentration samples. The observation suggests that there may be a correlation between the perfection of crystallinity and the luminosity in sample preparation. The medium concentration provided the optimized process in that it yields relatively high light output while maintaining a large enough quantity of material to be useful for practical applications. However the molar concentrations can generally be between about and 3 the standard amount preferably with a slight excess of the germanium precursor.

A temporal study concerning the crystallite size of the E BGO was undertaken to determine the optimal heating time at a temperature of 185 C. and to determine if larger particles can be generated. Samples were collected at 1 2 6 12 hours of heating respectively as well as at 1 2 4 and 8 weeks . As shown by the PXRD pattern in iii the Bi O OH NO .1.5HO phase had already formed after 1 hour of heating at 185 C. This phase was maintained through the 2 hour sample but by 6 hours the E BGO had clearly formed with some minor unidentified phases present. At 12 hours all of the material had converted to the E BGO PDF 00 034 0416 and all additional samples 1 2 3 and 8 weeks were identified as phase pure E BGO. SEM images for the 1 and 2 hour samples show that the Bi O NO .1.5HO material consist of 10 20 m spheres comprising smaller rod like crystals i ii . By 6 hours i ii the smoother E BGO crystals had formed and were about 40 m in size. After 12 hours i ii and over the next 8 weeks i ii the samples did not appear to grow significantly larger in size but did appear smoother and more faceted. Therefore samples of pure E BGO can be obtained in as little as 12 hours at 185 C. although larger seeds did not grow.

The present invention has been described as a method for the hydrothermal synthesis of bismuth germanium oxide. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

