---

title: Assisted shopping
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for facilitating an assisted shopping experience. A speech input can be captured and transcribed. The transcribed speech input can be transmitted to a customer service agent in a data session that is contemporaneous with a voice session. The customer service agent can then facilitate an assisted shopping experience via the voice session and data session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454779&OS=09454779&RS=09454779
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09454779
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140923
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 171 761 entitled ASSISTED SHOPPING and filed Jun. 29 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Users can communicate with an electronic commerce site via a mobile device. In some cases users may wish to browse search for and or purchase products via a mobile device. Interacting with a browser and or a mobile application user interface can often require input into a keyboard touchscreen or other tactile input device that requires the attention of the user to submit search terms select products enter payment information or other information needed to browse and or purchase products from a mobile device.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same. Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to systems and methods that facilitate an assisted shopping experience for users of an electronic commerce site. A mobile application or an application executed on a client can utilize various input devices and other hardware capabilities to enhance a user s experience as well as facilitate a shopping experience that can be assisted by a customer service agent as described herein.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes at least one computing device in communication with at least one client device and at least one customer service CS agent system . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be dispersed among many different geographical locations. As one example each of the disclosed components executed in the computing device can be executed in different computing devices in various locations in one or more data centers. However for purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

The components executed on the computing device include for example an electronic commerce application an assisted shopping agent application and other systems applications services processes engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The electronic commerce application is executed in order to facilitate the online purchase of items from one or more electronic marketplaces over the network . The electronic commerce application also performs various backend functions associated with the online presence of an electronic marketplace in order to facilitate the online purchase of items. For example the electronic commerce application generates network pages such as for example web pages and or other types of network content that are provided to clients for the purposes of promoting and selecting items for purchase rental download lease or any other forms of consumption.

The assisted shopping agent application is executed to facilitate an assisted shopping experience that allows users and CS agents associated with an electronic commerce site to communicate with one another as described herein. The assisted shopping agent application allows a CS agent to view various information about data displayed on a client device associated with a user push information about products facilitate purchasing of products via the electronic commerce application as well as communicate via a voice session e.g. telephone call voice over internet protocol session etc. . The assisted shopping agent application can also receive search terms and other text that is derived from voice commands transcribed by a mobile application on a client to facilitate the assisted shopping experience described herein. In some embodiments the assisted shopping agent application can also receive a representation of voice commands such as an audio file or other digital representation of an audio sample from a client device and generate a text equivalent to exchange data between a client and the assisted shopping agent application . The assisted shopping agent application can also receive data from a mobile application special purpose application and or a browser via a data session and the assisted shopping agent application can also serve content to a client device as described herein.

With regard to the data store the data stored therein can include for example a product catalog user account data and potentially other data. The product catalog may include information related to a plurality of items offered in an electronic marketplace or otherwise available via the electronic commerce application . An item may refer to a product good service software download multimedia download social networking profile or any combination bundle or package thereof that may be offered for sale purchase rental lease download and or any other form of consumption as may be appreciated. The various data stored in the product catalog may include for example search terms titles descriptions quantities conditions images options weights customer reviews customer ratings keywords shipping restrictions prices tax classifications unique identifiers and any other data related to items .

The data store can also include data regarding the various user accounts of an electronic commerce site facilitated by the electronic commerce application and assisted shopping agent application . In some embodiments each user account can be associated with a user profile that can contain demographic data about the user as well as information regarding the browsing activity purchase history interests or any other profile data about the user. User accounts can also include session data that includes information about assisted shopping sessions initiated by the user with a CS agent. The session data can include search histories browse histories and CS agent notes and other data related to the user s interactions with the assisted shopping agent application via a client device .

The data store can also include other data related to users and products as can be appreciated but which are not necessary to discuss herein for an understanding of the various embodiments of the disclosure. Additionally it should be appreciated that the data store can be implemented in a separate computing device that may be located in a separate installation or location. The depicted table structure of the data store is one example of how data can be structured therein according to embodiments of this disclosure as it should be appreciated that data can be structured in many different ways across multiple data stores implemented in various computing devices. Accordingly it should be appreciated that the depicted data store and the table structure shown therein is but one example given for ease of depiction and explanation of various embodiments of this disclosure.

The client device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a mobile device e.g. cellular telephone smart phone etc. set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability. The client device includes a display device upon which content pages and other content may be rendered.

A client device may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser application and or other applications. The browser application may be executed in a client device for example to access and render content pages such as web pages or other network content served up by the computing device CS agent system and or other servers. The client device may be configured to execute applications beyond a browser application such as for example instant message applications an application specifically tailored to access resources of the computing device and or other applications as can be appreciated.

Another example of a device that can interact with the assisted shopping agent application includes a client device that can include a mobile device tablet system or like system that executes an assisted shopping application that can receive inputs from a user interact with the hardware and other capabilities of the client as well as exchange data with the assisted shopping agent application . The assisted shopping application is also tailored to access data provided by the assisted shopping agent application and or the CS agent application and can include client side code that generates a user interface on a display device of the client . The client device may comprise a mobile device including cellular telephone and data access location detection hardware speed and or direction detection hardware and or other hardware and software components.

Such a device can detect the location of a user using global positioning system GPS or other location detection functionality which can be submitted by the assisted shopping application to the assisted shopping agent application and or the CS agent application . In one example global positioning system GPS functionality provided by the client device can provide a location of the client to the assisted shopping application which can in turn transmit a location of the client to the assisted shopping agent application . In one embodiment the assisted shopping agent application can utilize location based services and applications executed on the client device to determine a location of the user which can be used to facilitate an assisted shopping experience. Additionally such a device may also detect the speed and or direction of a user or the device which can be submitted by the assisted shopping application to the assisted shopping agent application and or the CS agent application .

The assisted shopping application can also control one or more displays in communication with the client device . Additionally the client device can include other hardware devices that are within or accessible to the client device . In one embodiment the assisted shopping application receives data from a proximity sensor and use the data to determine whether a client device is near or against the user s ear. Accordingly this data can be transmitted to the assisted shopping agent application and or CS agent application so that a CS agent can determine whether the user is likely looking at the display of the client device . Additionally assisted shopping application can also interact with a microphone to receive audio inputs from a user as well as one or more speakers to play audio content. The assisted shopping application can also activate a speakerphone mode associated with the client device as well as keep the display of the device active. In one embodiment a speakerphone mode that include setting a speaker level and or microphone sensitivity above one or more thresholds. The assisted shopping application can interact with any other hardware or software components associated with a client device to facilitate the functionality of embodiments of the present disclosure.

The CS agent system is representative of one or more computing systems that can execute a CS agent application with which a CS agent can interact with a user on a client in an assisted shopping session. In some embodiments the CS agent application can include a browser that renders content provided by assisted shopping agent application and or client . In other embodiments the CS agent application can include a special purpose application that facilitates communication with the client . In some embodiments some or all of the functionality described herein as ascribed to the assisted shopping agent application can be implemented in a CS agent system .

Next a description of various embodiments variations and examples of the present disclosure are provided. The following discussion includes non limiting examples of interactions of users and CS agents in an assisted shopping experience that is facilitated by embodiments of the disclosure. Users of an electronic commerce site can engage in an assisted shopping experience to browse search and or purchase products available via an electronic commerce application . Such an experience can be facilitated by interactions with a CS agent associated with the electronic commerce site. In one embodiment a user can initiate an assisted shopping experience by invoking the assisted shopping application in a client. In one embodiment the assisted shopping application can prompt the user to speak about what the user is seeking via an electronic commerce site. The assisted shopping application can transcribe the speech captured via a microphone by employing a speech recognition or speech transcription algorithm which can be transmitted to the assisted shopping agent application . In this way the assisted shopping application can establish a data session such as a hypertext transport protocol session with the assisted shopping agent application that allows the exchange of data between the application and the assisted shopping agent application .

The assisted shopping application can also initiate a voice session that is contemporaneous with a CS agent that allows a user to speak to the CS agent via the assisted shopping application . Such a voice session can be a bidirectional voice session that can be routed through the assisted shopping agent application and or the CS agent application and allow a conversation between the user and the CS agent. In some embodiments the voice session can include a wired and or wireless phone call according to various standards that are known in the art. Additionally in some embodiments a wireless communication standard implemented by the client device may not allow simultaneous or contemporaneous voice and data transmission. Additionally in other embodiments the assisted shopping application may be executed on a client device that is only equipped with the ability to communicate via the Internet. Therefore in these scenarios the assisted shopping application can initiate a VoIP session with the assisted shopping agent application to communicate with the CS agent so that the voice session and data session can be contemporaneous.

Accordingly the assisted shopping agent application can initiate a search of the product catalog for products that are relevant to the transcribed speech and transmit search results to the assisted shopping application which can be rendered on the client device in a user interface. The assisted shopping application can render a search results user interface that presents one or more search results relevant to the transcribed speech. As a voice session is established with the assisted shopping agent application contemporaneously with the data session a CS agent can speak to the user and provide assistance with searching for products as well as completing purchases. To facilitate this assisted shopping experience the assisted shopping agent application can push data to the assisted shopping application which can display data pushed by the CS agent on the client device . Accordingly the following user interfaces illustrate various examples of interactions that can occur between the assisted shopping agent application and the assisted shopping application that allow an assisted shopping experience to take place between a user and CS agent.

Therefore reference is made to in which an example user interface rendered by the assisted shopping application . The depicted user interface illustrates an example of an initial screen that can be presented to a user upon invocation of the assisted shopping application . In the depicted example the assisted shopping application can prompt the user to speak one or more search terms related to products the user is seeking which can initiate an assisted shopping experience. The assisted shopping application can also allow the user to filter or limit the assisted shopping experience by product category brand location or other attributes. In some embodiments the assisted shopping application can allow the user to access previous assisted shopping sessions and initiate a new session based upon a previous one.

Continuing the example shown in reference is now made to which illustrates an example user interface that can be rendered on the client device after a user speaks into a client device microphone. In the depicted example the assisted shopping application can perform a voice capture as well as transcribe the speech input. In some embodiments the assisted shopping application can transcribe the speech input by employing a speech recognition algorithm. In other embodiments the assisted shopping application can transmit a representation of the speech input to the assisted shopping agent application or a speech recognition service via the network which can transcribe the speech input on behalf of the assisted shopping application . The assisted shopping application can also initiate a voice session with a CS agent who can facilitate an assisted shopping experience on behalf of the user.

The assisted shopping agent application can receive the speech input and or a text input corresponding to the transcribed speech input and perform a search for relevant products in the product catalog associated with an electronic commerce site. The assisted shopping agent application can transmit corresponding search results via the data session to the assisted shopping application . In some embodiments the assisted shopping application can remove certain terms from the transcribed speech input that can be considered extraneous or potentially unrelated to products in the product catalog . In one embodiment the assisted shopping application can consult a dictionary of extraneous terms and or phrases that can be removed from a transcribed speech input before a text input is transmitted to the assisted shopping agent application to perform a product search. In other embodiments the assisted shopping agent application can receive the transcribed speech input and remove extraneous terms from the text input that is employed to generate search results that are transmitted to the client device .

In one example the assisted shopping agent application can also consult a dictionary of extraneous terms and or phrases that can be removed from the text input. In another example the assisted shopping agent application can identify terms in the text input that are unrelated to products in the product catalog and remove these terms from the text input. As yet another example the assisted shopping agent application can identify terms in the text input that are related to fewer search results than a threshold and remove these terms from the text input. In some cases the assisted shopping agent application can identify terms in the text input that are related to more search terms than a threshold which can indicate that these terms are not useful for identifying the intent of the user and remove these terms from the text input. For example the assisted shopping agent application can identify that the search term the is related to more search results than a threshold and determine that the search term is not useful for identifying products that the user is seeking.

Continuing the example of reference is now made to which illustrates an example of a search results user interface that can be rendered by the assisted shopping application . The depicted user interface can contain search results that are related to the transcribed speech input provided by the user and transmitted to the assisted shopping application by the assisted shopping agent application . As shown in the example of the assisted shopping application can maintain a voice session contemporaneously with the data session and allow the user to speak to a CS agent about products the user is seeking. In some embodiments the assisted shopping application can provide a visual cue and or indicator regarding a voice quality within the voice session as well as connectivity within the data session.

The CS agent application can also allow the CS agent to refine search terms corresponding to the speech input and generate a new search for products in the product catalog . Accordingly the CS agent can refine a search and push the search results to the assisted shopping application which can render the search results for display on the client device . In one example the CS agent can suggest refinement of a search query to the user and push the search results to the assisted shopping application for display on the client device . In another example the refined search query created by the CS agent can include none of the terms in the speech input captured by the assisted shopping application . For example a user may as an initial speech input say that he or she is seeking gifts for a spouse. Accordingly the refinement of the speech input into a search query that can be created by the CS agent may include none of the terms spoken by the user.

The CS agent application can also allow the CS agent to push a product detail page containing pricing shipping terms and other information about specific products to the assisted shopping application which can render the product detail page on the display of the client device . An example of such a scenario is illustrated in where the CS agent application can initiate a push of a product detail page to the assisted shopping application . In one example CS agent can suggest certain products to the user via the voice session can push a product detail page to the assisted shopping application for display on the client device .

Returning to the CS agent application can also allow a CS agent to initiate purchase of a particular product. illustrates an example of such functionality. In the depicted example the CS agent can discuss potential products for purchase by the user and push a purchaser confirmation user interface to the assisted shopping application for display on the mobile device . Accordingly a purchase confirmation user interface can be transmitted to the assisted shopping application where the user can confirm a purchase suggested by the CS agent. In some embodiments the CS agent can via the CS agent system issue a command that causes the assisted shopping application to purchase a product displayed by the application without any additional intervention or inputs by the user. In this scenario the user can provide a verbal authorization to purchase a product to a CS agent via the voice session. Accordingly the CS agent application and or assisted shopping agent application can issue a command received by the client that causes the assisted shopping application to confirm a purchase of a product. The assisted shopping application can also initiate capture of a verbal authorization from the user to purchase a product which can be archived by the assisted shopping agent application .

In some embodiments a user can also capture imagery video audio or other data with an input device in communication with the client which can be transmitted to the assisted shopping agent application can displayed by the CS agent application . Accordingly the CS agent can view and or listen to the captured data to facilitate the assisted shopping experience. As one example the user can capture an image via the assisted shopping application which can employ an image capture device associated with the client device . The assisted shopping application can transmit the captured image to the assisted shopping agent application and the CS agent can view the image and push search results product detail pages initiate purchases or take any of the actions described in the above examples.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the assisted shopping application executed on a client device according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the assisted shopping application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in a client device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the assisted shopping application can capture a speech input from a user. As noted above the assisted shopping application can capture such an input via microphone that is integrated with the client device . In box the assisted shopping application can initiate contemporaneous voice and data sessions with the assisted shopping agent application . In box the assisted shopping application can capture speech input from the user and transmit the speech input to the assisted shopping agent application and or CS agent application via the data session.

In box the assisted shopping application can receive content from the assisted shopping agent application and or CS agent application . The content can be received via the data session and can be one or more search results that are based upon the captured speech input. In box the assisted shopping application can render a content page containing at least a portion of the content received in box . In box the assisted shopping application can determine whether the assisted shopping session is terminated by the user and or the CS agent. If so then in box the assisted shopping application can terminate the data session as well as voice session. Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the assisted shopping agent application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the assisted shopping agent application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in a computing device according to one or more embodiments.

In box the assisted shopping agent application can initiate contemporaneous voice and data sessions with the assisted shopping application executed on a client device . In box the assisted shopping agent application can receive a transcribed speech input from the assisted shopping application . In box the assisted shopping agent application can initiate a search of a product catalog for products that are relevant to the transcribed speech input. In box the assisted shopping agent application can transmit content to the assisted shopping application for display on a client device . In box the assisted shopping agent application can receive data about the state of the client and or the assisted shopping application . The assisted shopping agent application can receive information about a proximity sensor state a state of a display device whether the device is in a sleep mode etc. and provide this information to a CS agent to facilitate the assisted shopping experience. The assisted shopping agent application can also receive inputs from a user which can cause additional content requests from the assisted shopping application that can be served by the assisted shopping agent application .

With reference to shown are schematic block diagrams of the computing device and client device respectively according to embodiments of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. Similarly the client device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . The local interfaces may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the various application discussed herein. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. The client device can also include a mass storage component for data storage. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor . In the case of the client device the operating system can provided the ability such as various application programming interfaces that allow the assisted shopping application to interact with the various hardware components such as a proximity sensor microphone speaker display capacitive or resistive touchscreen or other input or output devices.

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the various applications and systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the assisted shopping application and assisted shopping agent application . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the assisted shopping application and or assisted shopping agent application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

