---

title: Systems and methods for assessing an asset's contributions to the social media performance of a peer group
abstract: Described herein are systems and methods for assessing an asset's contributions to the social media performance of a peer group and comparing those contributions against those of other peer group members. In particular, the performance of one or more social media profiles associated with a peer group comprising the asset may be assessed. Share assessments may be made as to a share or a portion of the social media performance of the peer group that may be attributable to the asset. Similar assessments may be made with respect to other entities belonging to the peer group. The peer group members, including the asset, may then be ranked in accordance with their contributions to the peer group's social media performance. Peer groups may be customized or dynamically defined by a user such that the share assessments may be used to accurately benchmark assets against their peers and/or develop best practices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621663&OS=09621663&RS=09621663
owner: 
number: 09621663
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140522
---
This is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 259 787 filed Apr. 23 2014 and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 906 167 filed Nov. 19 2013 both of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments relate generally to systems and methods for collecting analyzing assessing and displaying an entity s social media performance and more specifically systems and methods that assess an entity s social media performance with respect to other entities within the same peer group organization or industry.

With the proliferation of social media networks and individual user s propensity to endorse share or otherwise express opinions regarding social media content there is an ever growing volume of valuable data that can be used to analyze or otherwise derive the general significance influence and impact surrounding such content. Moreover individual user s interactions with social media content can provide insights relevant to the entities that author or place the content either directly or through subsidiaries contractors employees etc. .

The advertising industry is over a trillion dollar per year industry with an ever growing focus on online advertising and social media content. Marketers and brands are constantly trying to optimize existing ad campaigns and look for new ways to reach potential customers. Moreover businesses and their agents personnel are actively engaging in social media attempting to elevate their public profile drive consumer traffic and influence the public s behavior and opinions. Gathering data associated with social media content and deriving insights therefrom is therefore of chief importance.

In response to this need many systems and methods have been developed to gather analyze and transform the vast quantity of social media data that is available through the various social media platforms such that the data can be placed in a form useful to the entities responsible for authoring buying and placing social media content items. Among other things entities placing content within social media platforms are interested in learning if the content is reaching its target demographic whether that target demographic is interacting with the content and whether the entities online efforts are having an impact on consumer behavior. To this end systems and methods have been developed to assess social media marketing efforts and convey information that can be used by marketers or brands to make decisions going forward.

These systems and methods however fail to deliver valuable insights with respect to how an individual s or entity s social media performance may compare to its peers who is most effective at creating consumer interaction and what entities most efficiently engage with the public over today s various social media platforms. The known systems and methods for assessing online marketing campaigns also lack adequate techniques for comparing one entity versus another or one industry versus another. Nor do they account for the intra organizational or intra industry impact that one entity s social media activity may have on another entity. Rather advancements in known systems and methods have primarily focused on expanding the quantity of data gathered and analyzed identifying those social media users wielding the most influence among a demographic and assessing a sentiment associated with discrete social media content items and or users.

Accordingly systems and methods could benefit from improved devices and techniques for analyzing social media data and transforming that data to facilitate a holistic assessment of an entity s social media activity. Moreover improved device and techniques are needed to facilitate side by side comparisons of social media performance across a peer group within an organization across an industry or across multiple industries.

In accordance with certain embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods for analyzing social media data assessing various aspects of social media performance comparing the social media performance of a plurality of entities within a peer group and displaying useful information to users in a comprehensive and or intuitive fashion are disclosed. In one aspect social media data can be analyzed in the context of peer groups such that assessment scoring ranking and or best practices empirical data can be derived therefrom. This data may then drive transformation and investment efforts with respect to social media activity advertising marketing and all other spending efforts within the context of a competing set of industries markets brands organizations or individuals. Peer groups may be defined in a number of ways and may comprise an industry an organization a trading area and or a group of user selected or predetermined entities or individuals. The peer groups may further span across similar entities within an industry a subset of entities within an industry a plurality of industries and or any other relevant boundaries of competitive forces.

In another aspect the system may comprise a method for assessing an entity s social media performance across one or more social media platforms in light of among other things subject matter market size geographic considerations time constraints vertical goodwill and or horizontal goodwill. In some embodiments vertical goodwill may reflect the impact that an entity s social media performance attributed to or influenced the performance of other entities belonging to a different tier within the same peer group organization industry or hierarchy. Horizontal goodwill on the other hand may reflect the impact that an entity s social media performance attributed to or influenced the performance of other entities belonging to a common tier within the same peer group organization industry or hierarchy.

In another aspect systems and methods of the present disclosure may facilitate comparing an entity such as a brand organization sub brand affiliate individual or subset of individuals against similarly situated entities within a peer group.

In a further aspect any insights assessments and comparisons performed in conjunction with the systems and methods disclosed herein may be used to benchmark entities with respect to their competition and or develop best practices. In one embodiment benchmarking and or best practices may be qualitatively and or quantitatively based at least in part on empirical statistical data and analysis within an industry across an industry or across a peer group.

Moreover systems and methods described herein may comprise a user interface for displaying social media performance and assessment information pertaining to one or more entities. In some embodiments in addition to performance and assessment information the user interface may communicate information for comparing an entity s performance to one or more other entities within a peer group. The user interface may also present ranking information pertaining to an entity s performance relative to the peer group social media platform information. In one embodiment peer groups may be customizable within the interface using one or more filters for further defining or refining the presented information. For example filters may comprise one or more of an industry filter a tier filter a geographic filter a temporal filter a subject matter filter a market size filter a demographic filter and a social media platform filter.

In another aspect the user interface may be configured to display information pertaining to one or more entities within a tier of a peer group organization brand or industry including competing industry participants sub brands peer groups and individuals. Alternatively or additionally the user interface may be configured to display multi tier performance assessment information. For example the interface may simultaneously display data pertaining to entities spanning a plurality of tiers within a peer group organization brand or industry.

Additional objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosure. The objects and advantages of the disclosure will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are illustrative and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the claims.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate several embodiments and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

Disclosed herein are various embodiments of a system for collecting evaluating transforming and displaying social media assessment and performance information. In one aspect the system may gather data associated with an entity from one or more social media platforms. The system may further collect data pertaining to other entities within the entity s peer group organization and or industry. The collected data may then be analyzed to derive assessment information indicative of the entity s social media performance and in some embodiments to directly compare the performance of the entity to that of other entities.

In another aspect the assessment of an entity s social media performance may take into account the social media performance of related entities. For example the social media performance of an entity may be positively or negatively impacted by the social media performance of one or more other entities within the entity s peer group organization or industry including entities belonging to different hierarchical tiers within the entity s organization or industry.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can also be used to derive industry benchmarks and or best practices for an individual peer group organization industry or industry subset.

While the systems and methods described herein are primarily concerned with gathering and analyzing data from social media platforms one skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems and methods described below can be used in other contexts including the analysis of data gathered from any number of sources such as privately maintained databases or public sources accessible via the Internet.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain illustrative embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like items.

As used herein an asset is meant to describe any entity the social media performance of which is to be assessed scored and or presented. As shown in an asset may comprise any entity including but not limited to an organization a profession a brand a network an industry a sub organization a sub brand an affiliate a department a section a program an employee a contractor an individual etc. Thus structure may comprise one or more tiers each tier comprising one or more assets the assets becoming more narrowly defined at each successive tier.

In one illustrative embodiment peer group the highest tier in structure may be a television network. In such an embodiment the tier 2 assets i.e. sub groups may represent one or more subdivisions within network . For example tier 2 may comprise one or more affiliate television stations each associated with network of tier 1. The tier 3 assets i.e. micro groups in turn may represent one or more subdivisions encompassed by at least one asset of tier 2. For example the tier 3 assets may comprise one or more television programs each associated with affiliate of tier 2. Likewise the tier 4 assets may comprise one or more subdivisions encompassed by at least one asset of tier 3. Continuing with this particular example the tier 4 assets may comprise one or more individuals or television personalities each associated with program of tier 3.

Of course this is only one example of peer group and structure . In another example peer group may comprise one or more members of a profession such as television personalities. In such an embodiment the tier 2 assets may represent subdivisions of the television personalities based on subject matter. For instance asset may be news anchors asset may be weather forecasters asset may be reporters etc. Continuing with this example tier 3 assets may be further refined subsets of each tier 2 asset and or may be subdivided based on market size or geographic territory. Tier 4 assets may then in one embodiment represent the individual television personalities.

It should be noted however that each asset within a particular tier may not be associated exclusively with a corresponding asset of the next highest tier. In other words though depicts micro group of tier 3 as being associated with sub group of tier 2 that may not exclude the possibility that micro group of tier 3 may also be associated with sub group or of tier 2. Similarly though depicts individual of tier 4 as associated with micro group of tier 3 that does not exclude the possibility that individual of tier 4 may also be associated with micro group of tier 3. Going one step further it also does not exclude the possibility that an asset of tier 4 may be associated with multiple tier 2 assets. In other words individual of tier 4 may be associated with sub group of tier 2 as well as sub group of tier 2. In fact any asset associated with peer group at any tier may be associated with any other asset in hierarchical structure . Moreover any asset associated with peer group may also be associated with another peer group entirely not depicted .

While the aforementioned examples describe peer group the highest tier in structure as a television network or a profession it should be understood that peer group may represent any asset comprising one or more subsets of assets. For example peer group may be among other things an industry market organization corporate entity brand business or any subdivision thereof. The next tier of assets may comprise one or more subdivisions of the peer group. For example where peer group may be an organization the next tier of assets may be one or more entities at least partially operated by controlled by supervised by advised by funded by or otherwise associated with the peer group. This tier of assets may include among other things any division department franchise affiliate sub brand branch or other entity that may be considered on a second intermediate or otherwise lower organizational tier than the peer group . The same may be true for each subsequent tier of structure . Again these examples are not meant to encompass all embodiments. Rather they are only illustrative of the possibilities and presented to afford one of skill in the art a framework within which to understand the systems and methods described herein.

In addition to each asset within structure having an association with one or more tiers and or other assets within the structure each asset within each tier of structure may be associated with one or more social media profiles . For example one or more assets of structure may be associated with one or more of a FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN or INSTAGRAM profile. Profiles may represent a social media presence on one or more social media platforms and may be used to among other things communicate announcements politicize events advertise products disseminate news stories or otherwise reach customers consumers or the public.

In one aspect each asset within peer group may have one or more social media profiles for which it may be directly responsible for placing content and or engaging with the public. For example each of peer group sub groups micro groups and individuals may have control over or be responsible for maintaining one or more respective social media profiles. Thus when assessing the social media performance of an asset within structure information from the one or more social media profiles controlled or maintained by the asset may be collected analyzed scored and or presented.

In some embodiments however when assessing the social media performance of an asset information may be collected not only from those social media profiles controlled or maintained by that asset but information may be collected from one or more social media profiles controlled or maintained by other assets within or outside of structure . For example assessing the social media performance of asset of tier 2 may involve collecting information associated not only with the social media profile s controlled or maintained by asset but also social media profile s controlled or maintained by other assets such as assets and . In this manner an assessment of the social media performance of each asset within hierarchical structure may take into account the contributions positive or negative of other related assets within the same structure or peer group.

In a further embodiment and as described in more detail below as one or more assets and or social media profiles are entered into an assessment system such as for example the system depicted in each asset may be associated with one or more social media profiles. The one or more assets may be entered into the assessment system manually e.g. by a user or in an automated programmatic fashion. As discussed above the social media profiles associated with each asset may or may not be directly controlled or maintained by the respective asset. In fact any asset may be associated with any social media profile in structure or other social media profile in the system. In alternative embodiments rather than the one or more assets being associated with one or more social media profiles at the time that the assets are entered into the assessment system the assets may be associated with the one or more social media profiles at some time after the assets are entered into the system. In further embodiments the social media profiles associated with any one or more assets entered into the system may be updated to add subtract or substitute social media profiles.

In another aspect and as described in more detail below the weight afforded each social media profile to be included in an assessment of a particular asset s social media performance or the weight afforded information collected with respect to each social media profile to be included may be adjusted based at least in part on a relationship between that asset and the asset having control over the respective social media profile. For instance in an embodiment in which asset may represent a television program and asset may represent a television personality appearing on the television program and when assessing the social media performance of asset information collected from one or more social media profiles directly controlled or maintained by asset may be weighted heavier than information collected from one or more social media profiles directly controlled or maintained by asset . Similarly the information collected from the one or more social media profiles directly controlled or maintained by asset may be weighted heavier than information collected from one or more social media profiles directly controlled or maintained by asset which in this embodiment may be another television program airing in a time slot adjacent to asset . Of course this is only one example of how one or more social media profiles may be considered and or weighted when assessing the social media performance of an asset and is not meant to exclude other suitable possibilities for incorporating and or variably weighting information associated with one or more social media profiles when assessing the social media performance of an asset.

By taking into consideration the social media profiles of related assets within structure the social media performance assessment of each asset may reflect both vertical and horizontal goodwill garnered from related assets within the peer group however that peer group is defined. As used herein the term vertical goodwill may be used to describe the effect that an asset s social media performance benefited hindered or otherwise influenced the performance of other assets belonging to a different tier within the same structure . Horizontal goodwill on the other hand may be used to describe the effect that an asset s social media performance benefited hindered or otherwise influenced the performance of other assets belonging to a common tier within structure .

For example social media profiles may comprise a FACEBOOK social media profile an INSTAGRAM social media profile a TWITTER social media profile a LINKEDIN social media profile and or other social media profiles . It should be noted however that social media profiles and may only be representative of the possibilities. Social media profiles may comprise any number of social media profiles across any number of social media platforms each profile being maintained by an asset within or outside of structure . In one embodiment each asset of structure may maintain each of a FACEBOOK INSTAGRAM TWITTER and LINKEDIN profile. In other embodiments one or more assets of structure may maintain additional fewer or alternative profiles. In other words social media profiles may comprise the social media profiles maintained by any entity within or outside of structure regardless of social media platform. In one embodiment social media profiles may comprise every social media profile of every social media platform or some subset thereof. Moreover any or all of the social media profiles may comprise the aforementioned data indicative of the social media presence of one or more entities with respect to a particular social media platform.

In another aspect one or more of the social media profiles may comprise one or more dedicated content channels. In one embodiment profile may comprise one or more dedicated content channels profile may comprise one or more dedicated content channels profile may comprise one or more dedicated content channels profile may comprise one or more dedicated content channels and profile may comprise one or more dedicated content channels . In a further embodiment a dedicated content channel may comprise a webpage profile page newsfeed or communication channel controlled or maintained by the entity that controls or maintains the respective profile. The asset may also have an amount of control or a level of autonomy with respect to content disseminated through the dedicated content channel including content originating from the asset and or content originating from another member of the respective social media platform.

In a further aspect any or all of the social media profiles may comprise one or more public conversations communicated over the respective social media platform. In one embodiment social media profile may comprise one or more public conversations social media profile may comprise one or more public conversations social media profile may comprise one or more public conversations social media profile may comprise one or more public conversations and social media profile may comprise one or more public conversations . In a further embodiment a public conversation may be included within a social media profile where for example the asset responsible for controlling or maintaining the profile or an affiliated entity asset etc. is the subject of the conversation is mentioned in the conversation or the conversation relates to a subject matter in which the asset is interested involved or otherwise associated with. Of course these are only examples of the types of public conversations that may be included within a social media profile and should not be considered exhaustive of the possibilities. Any suitable criteria for classifying a public conversation within a social media profile may be implemented and used in conjunction with this disclosure.

In one embodiment public conversations may be initiated by the asset that controls or maintains the profile or by another asset within any tier of the structure. Alternatively public conversations may be initiated without any such asset s involvement e.g. initiated by a member of the respective social media platform that is unaffiliated with peer group initiated by a member of the public or initiated by some other entity related or unrelated to one or more assets within a hierarchical structure. In a further aspect and regardless of the entity responsible for initiating the public conversation the asset that controls or maintains the respective profile or an asset within the peer group may take part or engage in the public conversation or it may not.

In another aspect end user device may be a personal computer. In other embodiments user device may be a smart phone a tablet a smart television or any other processor based or controller based computing device.

In a further aspect host server may comprise or otherwise be in communication with one or more host databases not depicted in . The one or more host databases may be maintained separate from host server so that server may more fully utilize its processing power. Alternatively any or all host databases may be integrated with server . Moreover information stored within any or all host databases may be duplicated across the one or more databases or distributed between them.

Host server may autonomously communicate with social media servers each corresponding to a social media platform such as FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN or INSTAGRAM to name a few. In one embodiment host server may communicate with social media servers via one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs . Social media servers may be publically accessible or they may be privately maintained and or require credentials to access. Further each social media server may be in communication with one or more respective databases. As described above with respect to host server each of the respective databases may be maintained separate from its associated social media server or integrated therewith. In one embodiment one or more of social media servers and their respective databases may gather and record member activities statistics and information in conjunction with members engagement with the associated social media platforms. In one embodiment the respective databases may be updated with member activity information in real time or they may be periodically updated at predetermined intervals.

In another aspect host server may be configured to access social media servers and their respective databases via the respective APIs. Host server may further be configured to collect a portion or all of the information contained in the respective database of each social media server. In this manner all of the information available in each social media server database may be collected by host server and stored in the host database s for analysis assessment presentation and or recall. Access to the social media servers and their respective databases by third parties such as host server may be permitted in an unfettered fashion for example all data may be made available in real time or meted out in accordance with one or more restrictions imposed by the respective social media platforms for example limits on the quantity of data available for retrieval within a predetermined period of time or restrictions as to what information is made available to third parties .

Though user device host server and social media servers are each depicted as single servers devices for simplicity it should be appreciated that one or more of these components may actually comprise a distributed network comprising a plurality of servers devices. Moreover while depicts only one user device and three social media servers environment may comprise additional users and user devices as well as more or fewer social media servers.

In one aspect host server may comprise a configuration module a data retrieval module a database a streaming data module an assessment module a supplemental data module a token management module and a presentation module .

In one aspect a user desiring to assess the social media performance of one or more assets may access host server via user device . For example the user may access configuration module of host server . In particular the user may transmit identifying information to configuration module the identifying information pertaining to one or more assets to be assessed and or one or more social media profiles related to the one or more assets.

In one aspect a user may transmit information associated with one or more assets each belonging to a peer group and or related to one or more of the social media profiles. For example the user may transmit asset information identifying assets and

In another aspect a user may transmit information associated with one or more social media profiles each of which may be related to one or more of the identified assets within the peer group. For example the user may transmit information associated with one or more of social media profiles . Alternatively host server may programmatically identify one or more of social media profiles each of which may be related to one or more of the identified assets based at least in part on the asset identification information provided by the user. Regardless of how the social media profile information may be attained the social media profile information may comprise identification and or authentication information associated with each social media profile. In a further embodiment the user may transmit or host server may programmatically identify any or all information necessary for host server to access a corresponding social media server and or retrieve data from the corresponding social media server associated with a social media profile.

In a further aspect each identified asset may be associated with one or more social media profiles. In one embodiment the user may associate each asset with one or more social media profiles. In other embodiments each asset may be programmatically associated with one or more social media profiles. In such an embodiment one or more of the programmatic associations may be presented to the user for the user s acceptance or rejection. In this manner a user may be afforded an opportunity to customize which social media profiles may be associated with which assets.

For example the user may associate asset with a first subset of social media profiles asset with another subset of social media profiles asset with yet another subset of social media profiles and so on for each of assets and . Of course this example is only illustrative of the possibilities and should not be construed as limiting of the suitable possibilities. Any combination of one or more social media profiles may be associated with any of the identified assets either manually or programmatically. Further each social media profile may be associated with one or more assets and vice versa. Moreover and as discussed in more detail below the assessment of each social media profile may be weighted differently for each asset to which it may be associated. For example assuming that a particular social media profile may be associated with both assets and a performance assessment of that social media profile may be weighted heavier when assessing the social media performance of asset than when assessing the social media performance of asset because asset may be more closely related to or responsible for maintaining that social media profile.

In a further aspect the user may associate tag each asset and or social media profile for which social media performance is to be assessed with additional trait or characterization information. In one embodiment the asset or social media profile may be tagged with any trait information that may be helpful in assessing the asset s or profile s performance and or identification of the asset s peers. The tagged information may also be useful in sorting the performance assessment results presented to the user which is discussed in more detail below.

In some embodiments the asset may be tagged with information including but not limited to information identifying one or more peer groups to which the asset belongs information identifying one or more tiers within a peer group s hierarchical structure to which the asset belongs information indicative of the industry in which the asset participates information identifying the job responsibilities of the asset information identifying which other assets within a peer group the asset may be related and how closely the asset may be related to any such other assets information indicative of the geographic location reach or territory of the asset information indicative of the market size associated with the asset s activities information indicative of a target demographic associated with the asset s activities and or information identifying a time period associated with the asset s activities. It should be noted that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and assets may be tagged with any suitable trait information useful in the assessment of the asset s social media performance determining the members of an asset s peer group and or defining relationships between an asset and one or more other entities.

In another aspect such tagged information may serve to aid in the automated identification of those entities within an asset s peer group. For example any or all entities comprising one or more similar tags may be presumed to belong to a common peer group. Such assets may or may not belong to the same organization or in some cases even the same industry.

In one embodiment configuration module may programmatically identify one or more entities sharing one or more common traits as compared to an asset. Configuration module may then suggest to the user including those entities within a peer group associated with the asset. In a further embodiment the user may then have an opportunity to accept or reject inclusion of the identified entities in the asset s peer group. Additionally or alternatively the user may manually identify entities to include within each asset s peer group. Thus the user may be afforded an opportunity to customize a peer group for one or more assets and information may be collected not only from the social media profiles associated with the user s assets but also from the social media profiles associated with the entities within the asset s peer group.

Such embodiments afford the user an ability to assess the social media performance of each asset compared to or in light of the performance of its peers as the user defines those peers. Such contextual assessment may among other things provide the user with a more robust and comprehensive understanding of an asset s social media performance enable comparison of the asset s performance to similarly situated entities facilitate benchmarking within an industry organization or peer group and or promote the establishment of best practices within the industry organization or peer group.

In another aspect the user may filter performance assessment results based at least in part on the trait information when the user desires to more narrowly tailor an asset s peer group. For example where an asset is a television personality and the asset s peer group comprises all television personalities the user may decide to review the asset s social media performance assessment results in light of a subset of the peer group such as those television personalities appearing at the same time of day or television personalities associated with a common subject matter. Because each asset or entity for which social media data is collected may be tagged with the various trait information sorting performance assessments based at least in part on whether each entity exhibits one or more particular traits can be done quickly and efficiently. Of course these examples are only illustrative and should not be construed as exhaustive of the possibilities. Further details with respect to these aspects of the disclosure are discussed below.

After the social media profile information asset information trait information and peer group information has been gathered at configuration module and or the various relationships associations between the data sets has been determined this data may be transmitted to data retrieval module and or database .

In one aspect any or all of the information received at configuration module from user device may be transmitted to data retrieval module . In one embodiment data retrieval module may be configured to interface with one or more social media platforms such as social media servers . As mentioned above such interfacing may take place via one or more APIs. Moreover each social media server may be in communication with one or more databases configured to store information associated with one or more users of the social media platform. In some embodiments the databases corresponding to each social media server may store data pertaining to member activities statistics and information. Such data may be provided to the social media platform by a member or collected in some other fashion e.g. by monitoring a member s activities and or engagements over the social media platform .

In a further aspect data retrieval module may be configured to transmit a request for data to any one or more of social media servers . Such a transmission may in some embodiments further comprise authentication information and or credentials necessary for the retrieval of information from any of the social media servers or databases. In one embodiment data retrieval module may request all information maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform. In other embodiments data retrieval module may request all information maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform associated with one or more social media profiles. In particular data retrieval module may request all information associated with the social media profiles transmitted by configuration module . Such social media profiles may comprise one or more social media profiles associated with assets and or one or more social media profiles associated with entities within those assets respective peer groups. In a further embodiment data retrieval module may request only a subset of information maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform associated with one or more social media profiles.

Depending upon the permissions and or policies of each social media platform and the needs of host server data retrieval module may request historical data associated with one or more social media profiles an ongoing real time stream of data associated with one or more social media profiles or periodic transmissions of the latest available data at predetermined time intervals. In some embodiments any one or more of the aforementioned requests may be accomplished with a single request and or transmission of authentication information or alternatively may be accomplished through a plurality of requests and or authentication information transmissions. For example where data retrieval module requests an ongoing real time data stream associated with one or more social media profiles data retrieval module may be required to transmit updated authentication information at predetermined intervals in order to receive the stream in an uninterrupted fashion.

In one aspect where one or more social media profiles may include public conversations as discussed previously herein a request from data retrieval module to one or more social media servers may comprise one or more keywords for searching any or all publically available data of the respective social media platform. In an alternative embodiment data retrieval module may request all publically available data or request a subset of the publically available data based on some criteria different from or in addition to keywords.

In a further aspect data retrieval module may be configured to request any data from one or more social media servers to be used in conjunction with assessing the social media performance of an asset. In one embodiment data retrieval module may request data from social media servers to be used in conjunction with assessing any one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and impact as described below of an asset s or profile s social media presence or performance.

In one embodiment an asset s social media audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact may comprise the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact respectively of one or more social media profiles associated with that asset.

As used herein the term audience may describe a relationship between a social media profile and other members of the social media platform. In one embodiment the audience associated with a social media profile may indicate the number of platform members that have confirmed a relationship with the social media profile on the respective social media platform. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the audience associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to friends followers or fans associated with the social media profile. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the audience associated with a social media profile. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the audience associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

As used herein the term voice may describe a messaging activity level associated with a social media profile. In one embodiment the voice associated with a social media profile may indicate the frequency with which content may be published to the social media platform by an entity that maintains the social media profile. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the voice associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to posts comments tweets replies or re tweets associated with the social media profile. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the voice associated with a social media profile. In still further embodiments content published by the audience or other members of the respective social media platform may also be included among the components of the voice associated with a social media profile though content published by the asset that controls or maintains the social media profile may be weighed differently than content published by the audience or other members. Additionally the media format of each component may be taken into consideration when weighing the components. For example posts comprising a video format may be deemed a separate component and or weighed differently than textual posts. Likewise tweets comprising an image format may be deemed a separate component and or weighed differently than tweets comprising only text or a video format. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the voice associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

As used herein the term engagement may describe an ability for the social media profile to communicate a message reliably i.e. while the voice associated with a social media profile may indicate the frequency with which content may be published by an asset that controls or maintains the social media profile engagement may indicate whether that activity is worthwhile. In one embodiment the engagement associated with a social media profile may indicate whether other members of the respective social media platform are interacting with the published content. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the engagement associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to shares likes comments mentions re tweets favorites and replies and may also include but may not be limited to hashtag mentions and or search term keyword matches within a public conversation. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the engagement associated with a social media profile. In still further embodiments interactions with published content by any one or more of the asset that controls or maintains the social media profile the audience of the social media profile and other members of the respective social media platform may be included in one or more of the components of the engagement associated with the social media profile though interactions by the asset that controls or maintains the social media profile may be weighed differently than interactions by the audience or other members. Additionally the media format of each component may be taken into consideration when weighing the components. For example comment comprising a video format may be deemed a separate component and or weighed differently than textual comments. Likewise re tweets comprising an image format may be deemed a separate component and or weighed differently than re tweets comprising only text or a video format. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the engagement associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

As used herein the term reach may describe a potential first and second order audience i.e. while the audience associated with a social media profile may indicate the number of platform members that have confirmed a relationship with the social media profile reach may indicate whether that audience is a beneficial or useful audience. In one embodiment the reach associated with a social media profile may indicate both the audience associated with the social media profile as well as the audience of the audience. In a further embodiment rather than simply taking into consideration the audience of the audience the reach associated with a social media profile may take into consideration only the audience of the engaged audience i.e. the audience of those social media platform members that not only are considered a part of the social media profile s audience but those members that have engaged the content associated with the social media profile. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the reach associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

As used herein the term influence may describe an ability for the social media profile to convert reach into engagement. In one embodiment the influence associated with a social media profile may comprise a ratio of engagement to reach. Thus and for example assuming two social media profiles having equal reach the social media profile associated with greater engagement may have greater influence. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the influence associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

As used herein the term impact may describe an efficiency with which a social media profile may generate influence and or engagement. In one embodiment assuming two social media profiles having equal influence and or engagement the social media profile associated with less voice may have greater impact. In other words voice may be associated with energy expended by an asset controlling or maintaining a social media profile. Thus the social media profile associated with less voice while achieving equal or greater influence and or engagement may be characterized as more efficient. Further details regarding the collection and assessment of data from one or more social media platforms for determining among other things the impact associated with a social media profile are set forth below.

In another aspect upon receiving a request from data retrieval module and optionally verifying any authentication information transmitted in conjunction with such request the one or more social media servers may retrieve any or all of the requested information from its respective database s and transmit that information to data retrieval module .

Host server may further comprise a database . As shown in database may comprise a single database integrated with host server . In alternative embodiments however database may be maintained separate from host server so that among other things server can more fully utilize its processing power. In further embodiments rather than a single database database may comprise a plurality of databases that may or may not be located in a single location. Moreover any or all information stored within database may be duplicated across one or more databases or distributed between them.

Any or all of the information received at configuration module from user device and or received at data retrieval module from social media servers may be transmitted to database for storage. In one aspect database stores one or more of social media profile information asset information trait information and peer group information received from configuration module as well as some or all associations between multiple data sets. For example database may store information for associating asset information to corresponding social media profile information trait information and or peer group information.

In another aspect database may store information received from one or more social media platforms via data retrieval module . For example database may store information retrieved for asset and or social media profile assessment including but not limited to data indicative of the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile. In some such embodiments database may further store one or more components that may be used in determining the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile including but not limited to data indicative of friends followers fans posts comments tweets replies re tweets shares likes mentions and favorites. 

Database may further store information for correlating some or all data associated with a social media profile and or correlating some or all social media profiles with one or more assets. In further embodiments database may also store algorithms for determining one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile based on one or more of the aforementioned components. One or more illustrative algorithms for determining the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile are described below.

Additionally where one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile may comprise a plurality of components database may further store weights assigned to each component. In this manner the relative weight assigned each component may be customized based at least in part on contextual information. In some embodiments the contextual information may comprise for example the industry in which an asset participates the market size in which the asset is engaged and or the geographic location of the asset. However it should be noted that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and the components may be weighted in any suitable fashion and or in view of any contextual information or other considerations. In some embodiments the weights assigned to each component may be predetermined and or industry based. In further embodiments the predetermined weights may be presented to the user via configuration module and the user may be afforded an opportunity to modify the predetermined weights of one or more components used in the assessment of any or all assets or social media profiles.

In another aspect database may store authentication information necessary to retrieve data from one or more social media servers . In one embodiment data retrieval module may read or recall authentication information from database prior to or in conjunction with transmitting a request for data to one or more social media servers. Conversely where authentication information may be transmitted from one or more social media servers to data retrieval module that authentication information may be transmitted from the data retrieval module to database for storage.

In a further aspect any asset or social media profile modifications made by the user via configuration module may also be stored in database . Such modifications may include but are not limited to changes to existing assets or social media profiles additions of new assets or social media profiles and removal of existing assets or social media profiles. In this manner database may maintain an up to date record of all assets and corresponding social media profiles for which data may be retrieved from social media servers . Any or all updated information may also be communicated to data retrieval module either directly from configuration module or via database to ensure that all relevant data is being requested from the social media platforms and or unnecessary data is not being requested from the platforms.

In another aspect in addition to transmitting data received from social media servers to database data retrieval module may transmit some or all of the data received from the social media platforms to streaming module . In some embodiments the data transmitted to streaming module may comprise data collected from one or more social media servers upon which the performance assessment of one or more social media profiles and or assets may be based at least in part. For example data retrieval module may transmit data comprising information to be used in conjunction with assessing any one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and impact associated with a social media profile and or asset including but not limited to information indicative of those components of audience voice engagement and or reach set forth above.

In one embodiment data retrieval module may transmit one subset of data received from configuration module and or social media servers directly to database and may transmit another subset of data received from configuration module and or social media servers directly to streaming module . For instance data retrieval module may transmit social media profile identification information asset identification information authentication information scoring profile information including weights for various components to be used in performance assessments other information input by a user and or historical data retrieved from one or more social media platforms directly to database . Other data retrieved from the social media platforms e.g. data used in conjunction with assessing any one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and impact associated with a social media profile and or asset by data retrieving module may be transmitted directly to streaming module . In this manner relatively static information i.e. information typically not subject to relatively frequent change or requiring affirmative intervention to change may be transmitted directly to database whereas relatively dynamic information i.e. information retrieved from the social media platforms that may be changing relatively frequently and or updated in real time at pre determined intervals or otherwise automatically may be transmitted directly to streaming module . It should be noted however that regardless of what information is transmitted directly to streaming module data retrieval module may then transmit any or all received information to database in order to supplement or amend the data stored there. Thus any or all real time or relatively dynamic data retrieved from one or more social media servers may be collected and transmitted to an assessment module described in more detail below via streaming module as quickly and efficiently as possible while still maintaining an up to date record in database of any or all data retrieved from the one or more social media platforms including any or all relatively dynamic information.

Assessment module may comprise logic and or algorithms for assessing the social media performance of one or more social media profiles and or assets. In one embodiment such performance assessments may be based at least in part on information received or retrieved from one or both of database and streaming module . As discussed above such assessments may be based among other things on data retrieved from one or more social media platforms including but not limited to friends followers fans posts comments tweets replies re tweets shares likes mentions and favorites. These components and or data associated therewith may be used in determining the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a social media profile and or asset. Moreover and as discussed above the information upon which an assessment is based may rely at least in part on information retrieved from a dedicated content channel associated with a social media profile and or public conversations associated with an asset or social media profile.

In another aspect assessment module may determine an audience associated with one or more social media profiles. As discussed above the audience associated with a social media profile may reflect a relationship between a social media profile and other members of the social media platform. In one embodiment the audience associated with a social media profile may indicate the number of platform members that have confirmed a relationship with the social media profile on the respective social media platform. Depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the audience associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to friends followers or fans associated with the social media profile. Such components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the audience associated with a social media profile. For example friends may be weighted heavier than fans or vice versa.

In one aspect the audience a associated with a social media profile may be determined using the following Equation 1 

As used in Equation 1 x may represent each component associated with the social media profile to be included in the audience determination for components 1 through k. For example where the audience associated with an illustrative FACEBOOK social media profile may comprise three components e.g. friends followers and fans then k may equal 3 and Eq. 1 may include x x and x. The number or type of components to be considered when determining the audience associated with another FACEBOOK social media profile a TWITTER social media profile or some other social media profile may be different and the examples provided herein are only intended to demonstrate the possibilities. For instance the audience associated with an illustrative TWITTER social media profile may comprise only one component e.g. followers .

Regardless of the number of components each component x may represent the sum of all event instances during the relevant time period t. For instance where the audience comprises a friends component x for that particular component may be the total number of friends however that term may be defined associated with the social media profile during the relevant time period.

Further w may represent the weight afforded each component x 1 through k such that where for example audience is based at least in part on the aforementioned three components then w may reflect the weight afforded each of those components.

Furthermore l may represent the weight afforded a temporal period for time periods 1 through t such that where for example only one time period is being included within the analysis then l may be set to 1.0 and t the number of time periods may also be set to 1.0. In alternative embodiments however where several different time periods are being included in the analysis l may reflect a weight afforded each time period t. For example in one embodiment where a performance assessment may be made based on the social media performance associated with a social media profile over a time period e.g. a day week month year etc. relatively recent activity may be weighted more heavily than relatively older activity. In one example where performance may be evaluated with respect to all activity over a week long timespan activity associated with a first day the oldest activity may be discounted for example weighted 1 7 as compared to activity associated with the seventh day the most recent activity . Social media activity associated with the second day may be discounted to a lesser extent for example weighted 2 7 as compared to social media activity associated with the seventh day and so on such that more recent activity may be weighted more heavily within the performance assessment. Of course this example is only illustrative and alternative formulations and or considerations for weighting both recent and older activity are also possible. Moreover in alternative embodiments it may be desirable to weight older activity greater than more recent activity or not consider temporal factors at all when weighting social media activity.

In another aspect the voice v associated with a social media profile may also be determined using Equation 1 . As described above with respect to the audience x may represent each component to be included in the voice determination for components 1 through k. For example where the voice associated with an illustrative FACEBOOK social media profile may comprise two components e.g. posts and comments then k may equal 2 and Equation 1 may include xand x. The number or type of components to be considered when determining the voice associated with another FACEBOOK social media profile a TWITTER social media profile or some other social media profile may be different and the examples provided herein are only intended to demonstrate the possibilities. For instance the voice associated with an illustrative TWITTER social media profile may comprise three components e.g. tweets replies and re tweets .

Regardless of the number of components each component x may again represent the sum of all event instances during the relevant time period t. For instance where the voice comprises a posts component x for that particular component may be the total number of posts however that term may be defined associated with the social media profile during the relevant time period.

Likewise w and l representing the weight afforded each component x and the weight afforded each time period t respectively may be treated similarly to the corresponding variables described above with respect to the audience associated with a social media profile.

The engagement e associated with a social media profile may also be determined using Equation 1 . Similar to determining the audience and voice x may represent each component to be included in the engagement determination for components 1 through k. For example where the engagement associated with an illustrative FACEBOOK social media profile may comprise four components e.g. shares likes comments and mentions then k may equal 4 and Equation 1 may include x x x and x. The number or type of components to be considered when determining the engagement associated with another FACEBOOK social media profile a TWITTER social media profile or some other social media profile may be different and the examples provided herein are only intended to demonstrate the possibilities. For instance the engagement associated with an illustrative TWITTER social media profile may comprise six components e.g. re tweets favorites mentions replies hashtag matches and keyword matches .

Regardless of the number of components each component x may again represent the sum of all event instances during the relevant time period t. For instance where the engagement comprises a re tweets component x for that particular component may be the total number of re tweets however that term may be defined associated with the social media profile during the relevant time period.

Likewise w and l representing the weight afforded each component x and the weight afforded each time period t respectively may be treated similarly to the corresponding variables described above with respect to the audience and voice associated with a social media profile.

The reach r associated with a social media profile may also be determined using Equation 1 . Similar to determining the audience voice and engagement x may represent each component to be included in the reach determination for components 1 through k. For example where the reach associated with an illustrative FACEBOOK social media profile may comprise six components e.g. friends followers fans friends of engaged users followers of engaged users and fans of engaged users then k may equal 6 and Equation 1 may include x x x x x x. It should be noted in this particular example one or more of the components may be based at least in part on an engagement determination described above. The number or type of components to be considered when determining the reach associated with another FACEBOOK social media profile a TWITTER social media profile or some other social media profile may be different and the examples provided herein are only intended to demonstrate the possibilities. For instance the reach associated with an illustrative TWITTER social media profile may comprise two components e.g. followers and followers of engaged users .

Regardless of the number of components each component x may again represent the sum of all event instances during the relevant time period t. For instance where the engagement comprises a followers component x for that particular component may be the total number of followers however that term may be defined associated with the social media profile during the relevant time period.

Likewise w and l representing the weight afforded each component x and the weight afforded each time period t respectively may be treated similarly to the corresponding variables described above with respect to the audience voice and engagement associated with a social media profile.

In another aspect the influence associated with a social media profile may be determined using the following Equation 2 

As presented in Equation 2 the influence inf associated with a social media profile may comprise a ratio of the engagement associated with the social media profile e and the reach associated with the social media profile r. The influence associated with a social media profile may reflect among other things an ability for the social media profile to convert reach into engagement. Thus and for example assuming two social media profiles having equal reach the social media profile associated with greater engagement may have greater influence.

In another aspect the impact associated with a social media profile may be determined using the following Equation 3 

As presented in Equation 3 the impact imp associated with a social media profile may like the influence comprise a ratio of the engagement associated with the social media profile e and the reach associated with the social media profile r but further take into account the voice associated with the social media profile. Thus the impact associated with a social media profile may reflect among other things an efficiency with which a social media profile may generate influence and or engagement. Thus and for example assuming two social media profiles having equal influence and or engagement the social media profile associated with less voice may have greater impact as the entity that maintains the social media profile may be expending less energy while achieving equal results as compared to the other social media profile.

In a further aspect and as discussed above the social media performance of an asset may comprise the social media performance of one or more social media profiles n. Thus and for example the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact associated with a plurality of social media profiles may be combined to generate the audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact respectively associated with an asset.

In one embodiment the audience A voice V engagement E and reach R associated with an asset may be determined in accordance with Equation 4 a . In particular for all social media profiles 1 through n that define an asset and for all time periods 1 through t that are being included in the assessment and for all components of either the audience voice engagement or reach as described above 1 through k the products of the time period weight 1 component weight w and component value x may be summed. The result may then be divided by the number of time periods t.

In another embodiment the audience A voice V engagement E and reach R associated with an asset may be determined in accordance with Equation 4 b . Equation 4 b may be substantially similar to Equation 4 a but Equation 4 b may allow for the independent weighting of one or more social media profiles to be included within the performance assessment of an asset. For example FACEBOOK and TWITTER social media profiles may be weighted more heavily than Instagram or LinkedIn social media profiles. In further embodiments geographic considerations may be taken into consideration when weighting one or more social media profiles to be included in a performance assessment. For example and as discussed in further detail below when the performance assessment of an asset includes the performance of social media profiles maintained by other entities assets the weight afforded the social media profiles maintained by the other assets may be based at least in part on the geographic proximity of those entities compared to the asset being assessed. Of course these are only a couple illustrative embodiments of how or why a social media profile included in the assessment of an asset s social media performance may be afforded varying weights. Any suitable or otherwise useful criteria may be used to determine at least in part the weight afforded a social media profile included within a performance assessment.

Equation 4 b may convey that for all social media profiles 1 through n that define an asset and for all time periods 1 through t that are being included in the assessment and for all components of either the audience voice engagement or reach as described above through k that may be included in any social media profile associated with the asset the products of the contribution weight c i.e. the weight afforded a particular social media profile time period weight 1 component weight w and component value x may be summed. The result may then be divided by the number of time periods t.

It should be noted although either of Equations 4 a or 4 b may be used to determine the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with an asset for simplicity of explanation where the audience voice engagement and or reach of an asset is incorporated in or forms the basis of further equations or algorithms below Equation 4 a will be used. However one may appreciate that Equation 4 b may be substituted in other embodiments.

It follows that in some emmbodiments the impact IMP associated with an asset may thus be determined in accordance with Equation 6 

In one aspect in addition to determining an audience voice engagement reach influence and or impact for an asset a determination as to the asset s share of audience voice engagement and or reach within a peer group may be made. In one embodiment an asset s share of audience voice engagement and or reach may represent a portion or percentage of a total audience voice engagement and or reach respectively associated with a peer group that includes the asset. In this manner a performance assessment of an asset may directly compare the asset s social media performance including a number of facets thereof against the performance of its peers. As described in more detail above the peer groups may be defined in a variety of ways and or may be customized by a user.

In one embodiment the share of an asset s audience A the share of an asset s voice V the share of an asset s engagement E and the share of an asset s reach R with respect to the overall audience voice engagement and reach associated with an asset s peer group as a whole may be determined using Equation 7 . As shown in Equation 7 the numerator may represent any of an asset s audience voice engagement or reach and takes into consideration one or more social media profiles associated with the asset. The denominator on the other hand may represent the entire audience voice engagement or reach of the asset s peer group where p represents the total number of social media profiles associated with all assets within the peer group. As discussed previously the peer group may be defined relatively broadly thereby encompassing a large number of assets or it may be defined relatively narrowly encompassing only those assets most closely related or most similar to the asset for which social media performance is being assessed. The type and or quantity of social media profiles encompassed by the peer group may reflect the breadth or scope of the peer group. In a further embodiment to arrive at a percentage or a whole number the result of Equation 7 may be multiplied by one hundred 100 .

In a further aspect an asset may also be ranked within the context of a peer group i.e. ranked against its peers however a particular peer group may be defined . In one embodiment an asset may be ranked against its peers according to any one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence impact audience share voice share engagement share and reach share. In other embodiments an asset may be ranked within a peer group on a scale of 1 through 100 or some other scale intuitive to a user e.g. 1 through 10 an IQ like scale of 1 through 160 etc. .

In one aspect prior to ranking an asset within a peer group it may be determined how far an asset s performance lies above or far below the peer group s average performance. In such an embodiment the performance of each asset or entity within the peer group may also be determined for example in accordance with Equation 4 a or 4 b .

The mean performance across all assets of a peer group may then be determined in one embodiment using Equation 8 . Equation 8 depicts a determination for a mean audience across all assets within a peer group. However the same formula may be applied to arrive at the mean voice engagement and or reach across all assets for a peer group. In particular Equation 8 adds the audience assessment for each asset 1 through a in a peer group and divides that sum by the number of assets a in the peer group.

In one embodiment the mean performance across all assets of a peer group may then be used to determine a standard deviation for performance assessment of a peer group.

Equation 9 affords one illustrative method for determining the standard deviation associated with a peer group s performance assessments. As was the case with respect to Equation 8 a method for determining the standard deviation for a peer group s audience assessment is shown. However the same formula may be used for determining the standard deviation for a peer group s voice engagement GE and or reach assessment. As used in Equation 9 Amay represent the audience assessment for any asset within the peer group determined for example using Equation 4 a or 4 b . In particular and for each asset within a peer group 1 through a the mean audience assessment for the peer group may be subtracted from the respective asset s assessment and the difference may be squared. The summation of all such results for each asset in the peer group may then be divided by the number of assets in the peer group. The positive square root of that quotient may then represent the standard deviation for the peer group s assessment.

Using such a standard deviation performance assessments for assets entities associated with above average performance with respect to a peer group may result in positive numbers a number of standard deviations above the mean and performance assessments for assets entities associated with below average performance with respect to a peer group may result in negative numbers a number of standard deviations below the mean . The assessments that may have been converted into units of standard deviation may then be rescaled to convert the standardized scores to an intuitive scale comprising only positive numbers e.g. 1 through 100 1 through 10 1 through 160 etc. .

In one embodiment the standardized scores of each asset entity within a peer group may be converted to a percentile and or ranked against the other assets of the peer group in accordance with its percentile.

Equation 10 provides one illustrative method for converting an asset s standardized audience assessment into an audience assessment percentile score. However the same formula may be used for determining the percentile score for an asset s voice percentile score engagement percentile score and or reach assessment percentile score. In other embodiments upon calculating the percentile score for each asset in a peer group the assets in the peer group may be ranked in accordance with each asset s percentile score.

There are a number of advantages to presenting and or ranking a plurality of assets performance assessments or scores as percentile scores. For example this method affords a range of resulting scores bound by 0 and 100 which may be fairly intuitive to the user and easy to infer approximately where in a peer group an asset s performance falls. Perhaps more obviously it may be immediately recognized in what percentile of the peer group the asset s performance falls. Additionally this methods provides for easier movement of scores within the mid range of the peer group than at the tails or extremes. In other words an asset may find it easier to improve its percentile score from 50 to 60 than from 60 to 70 and easier still than improving from 70 to 80. In fact improvement of such a percentile score becomes very difficult the closer the asset s score approaches 100. Likewise degradation of the percentile score may become very difficult the closer the asset s rank approaches 0.

In another embodiment rather than converting the standardized scores of each asset entity within a peer group to a percentile score the standardized scores may be converted to a T score.

Equation 11 provides one illustrative method for converting an asset s standardized audience assessment into an audience assessment T score. Again the same formula may be used for determining the T score for an asset s voice T score engagement T score and or reach T score. In other embodiments upon calculating the T score for each asset in a peer group the assets in the peer group may be ranked in accordance with each asset s T score.

Presenting and or ranking a plurality of asset s performance assessments or scores as T scores also has advantages. Like the percentile scores discussed above this method affords a range of resulting scores bound by 0 and 100 which may be fairly intuitive to the user and easy to infer approximately where in a peer group an asset s performance falls. Additionally this methods affords a wider range of resulting scores at the extreme ends of the spectrum as percentile scores may result in a score of 0 for all entities with performance assessment scores falling more than 3 standard deviations below the mean for the peer group and or a score of 100 for all entities with performance assessment scores greater than 3 standard deviations above the mean for the peer group.

In a further aspect and regardless of whether asset performance assessments may be determined as percentile scores or T scores the scores for one or more of audience voice engagement and or reach may be combined into a composite score.

Equation 12 provides one illustrative method for determining a composite score based on one or more of an audience voice engagement and or reach score. In one aspect either a percentile score or a T score may be used for each component to be combined into the composite score provided all components of the composite are based on the same scoring methodology . In one embodiment Equation 12 may be used to determine the weighted arithmetic mean of the components of the composite score. In particular for each component k the corresponding score associated with that component x may be multiplied by a weight w afforded that component. The product may then be divided by the sum of the weights associated with each component.

In another embodiment a similar composite score may be calculated based on the share scores set forth above with respect to Equation 7 . Such a composite score may reflect an asset s total share of social media activity within a peer group including any one or more of audience share voice share engagement share and reach share.

In a further embodiment the influence and impact determinations for an asset e.g. Equations 5 and 6 may be taken into consideration when calculating any one or more of an asset s composite percentile score composite T score and composite share score. As discussed above with respect to audience voice engagement and reach the influence and or impact components may be afforded their own respective weights when determining a composite score that includes them.

Regardless of the type of assessments conducted in assessment module or how those assessments are made assessment of the social media data associated with one or more assets and or social media profiles may take place on a continuous basis e.g. in real time or at predetermined intervals e.g. every x seconds minutes hours days etc. . The results of any assessment made at a given time which may be referred to as an assessment snapshot may be transmitted to database for storing of the assessment information. In particular the assessment information or assessment snapshot may be associated within database with one or more asset identifiers and or social media profile identifiers stored there. Thus a historical record of an asset s or social media profile s performance may be developed over time.

In another aspect in the course of performing assessments with respect to data received directly or indirectly from social media servers assessment module may determine that the data associated with one or more assets or social media profiles appears stale or outdated. For example when assessing the social media performance of an asset within a peer group assessment module may determine that the most recent social media activity information associated with an asset is older than a predetermined threshold. In one embodiment the predetermined threshold may be a time interval such as x seconds minutes hours days etc. In another embodiment the predetermined threshold may be a function of previous social media activity levels detected for the asset. In other words the predetermined threshold may be a relatively short period of time for assets that typically exhibit frequent social media activity while the threshold may be a relatively long period of time for assets that typically exhibit less social media activity. In other embodiments the predetermined threshold may be a function of the social media activity level associated with the asset s peer group. Thus the threshold may be a relatively short period of time for an asset belonging to a peer group that typically exhibits frequent social media activity while the threshold may be a relatively long period of time for an asset belonging to a peer group that typically exhibits little or infrequent social media activity.

In one embodiment where assessment module determines that the data associated with one or more assets or social media profiles appears stale assessment module may transmit a request for updated data to streaming module . In a further embodiment the request may then be transmitted to data retrieval module . Retrieval module may then transmit a request to one or more social media servers to collect the desired data. The process of retrieving data from the one or more social media servers by data retrieval module is described in more detail above as is the process of receiving the updated data and transmitting that data to one or more of database streaming module and assessment module .

In an alternative embodiment rather than or in addition to the request for updated data being transmitted to data retrieval module via streaming module the request for updated data from assessment module may be transmitted to a supplemental data module .

In one aspect supplemental data module may be configured to interface with one or more social media servers and or a corresponding API in a similar fashion as and independent of data retrieval module . In this manner a redundancy of social media server connections may be established. This may be particularly useful when one of the connections fails is overwhelmed by data volume or content retrieval over that connection is otherwise limited.

In one embodiment the data requested by supplemental data module may be limited to information associated with one or more assets or social media profiles determined to be stale. For example where the threshold for determining that an asset s social media data is stale is one day supplemental data module may only request data associated with the respective assets or social media profiles from the last 24 hours. Similar to data retrieval module supplemental data module may request any type of information from the one or more social media servers that may be useful in the assessment of an asset s peer group s or social media profile s social media performance. Such information may include but is not limited to any one or more of the aforementioned components of the audience voice engagement reach influence and impact of an asset s social media presence or performance.

In a further aspect supplemental data module may maintain one or more records comprising one or more peer groups assets or social media profiles in need of frequent updates. The entities identified in the records may be identified algorithmically within host server in accordance with any previously described embodiment or they may be identified by a user. Regardless of how the entities are identified one or more requests for updated data with respect to these entities may be made at frequent and or predetermined time intervals. In one embodiment the time intervals at which requests are made by supplemental data module with respect to any or all assets in need of frequent updates may be shorter than the time intervals at which data may be requested from the social media servers via data retrieval module . In this manner the social media data associated with the entities in the records maintained at supplemental data module may be kept as up to date as possible.

In another embodiment any request for data transmitted by supplemental data module may be accompanied by authentication information or credentials necessary to access the databases associated with one or more social media servers. As described above authentication information may be stored and or recalled from database . Alternatively or additionally supplemental data module may be configured to communicate with a token management module .

In one aspect token management module may maintain up to date authentication information used by one or both of supplemental data module and data retrieval module to retrieve data from one or more social media servers .

In another aspect token management module may be configured to periodically confirm the status of any or all authentication information stored at host server . In one embodiment token management module may be further configured to delete obsolete authentication information obtain and or store new authentication information or update renew existing authentication information.

In another embodiment any changes to the authentication information including deletions additions modifications renewals or updates may be stored in database or may be stored locally at token management module . In an alternative embodiment any changes to the authentication information may be stored in both database and token management module for among other things security and data redundancy purposes.

In another aspect one or more performance assessments conducted at assessment module may be transmitted to presentation module . The performance assessments may comprise assessments performed with respect to one or more assets peer groups and or social media profiles. The assessments may comprise any one or more of the audience voice engagement reach influence and impact associated with an asset peer group or social media profile. The assessments may also comprise any one or more of the share of the audience voice engagement or reach associated with an asset peer group or social media profile. Moreover the assessments may comprise the mean performance assessment for a peer group a plurality of assets or a plurality of social media profiles. The assessments may also comprise a standard deviation associated with the performance assessments of a peer group a plurality of assets or a plurality of social media profiles. Additionally or alternatively the assessments may comprise a percentile score for any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach of an asset or social media profile. The assessments may also comprise a T score for any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach of an asset or social media profile. In further embodiments the assessments may comprise one or more composite scores for an asset or social media profile the composite score being based on components derived from any of a percentile score a T score or a share assessment. In still further embodiments the assessments transmitted from assessment module to presentation module may be any type of assessment described herein and may in some instances include historical assessment data pertaining to one or more assets peer groups or social media profiles.

In a further aspect the assessment information received at presentation module may be organized and or prepared for presentation to the user via a graphical user interface GUI appearing at the user device . In one embodiment the GUI may present any of the aforementioned assessment information transmitted by assessment module . In a further embodiment the GUI may simultaneously present performance information pertaining to an asset as well as information pertaining to the other entities within an asset s peer group. In this manner a side by side comparison of an asset s performance can be interpreted within the context of the performance of its peers. In one such embodiment the asset s performance or some aspect thereof may be numerically ranked against the performance of other entities within the asset s peer group.

Additionally or alternatively the GUI may simultaneously present performance assessment information associated with multiple tiers of a peer group. In one embodiment not only may performance assessment information corresponding to a plurality of assets belonging to a common tier be presented but additional performance assessment information associated with one or more assets belonging to a higher or lower tier of the peer group may be presented to a user. Alternatively additional performance assessment information associated with one or more assets belonging to a different peer group entirely may be simultaneously presented to the user.

In still further embodiments any combination of one or more of the aforementioned aspects of performance assessment information associated with an asset a peer group or a social media profile may be simultaneously displayed within the GUI. Moreover any performance assessment data stored in database may be directly or indirectly transmitted to presentation module for display in the GUI. In one embodiment the performance assessment information displayed in the GUI may be based at least in part on user input. In particular the user may desire to customize the information displayed in the GUI based on any one or more of assets peer groups social media profiles an aspect of performance assessment e.g. audience voice engagement and reach and any of the aforementioned share and or score assessments. The user may further customize the information presented in the GUI by sorting based on the aforementioned tagged trait information associated with one or more assets and or social media profiles. Of course the examples provided herein are only illustrative of the possibilities and any suitable presentation that the user finds helpful and or places the performance assessment information in context for the user may be implemented. Further details regarding embodiments of the GUI are described below with respect to .

In one aspect system may include one or more hardware and or software components configured to execute software programs such as software for storing processing and analyzing data. For example system may include one or more hardware components such as for example processor a random access memory RAM module a read only memory ROM module a storage system a database one or more input output I O modules and an interface module . Alternatively and or additionally system may include one or more software components such as for example a computer readable medium including computer executable instructions for performing methods consistent with certain disclosed embodiments. It is contemplated that one or more of the hardware components listed above may be implemented using software. For example storage may include a software partition associated with one or more other hardware components of system . System may include additional fewer and or different components than those listed above. It is understood that the components listed above are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting or exclude suitable alternatives or additional components.

Processor may include one or more processors each configured to execute instructions and process data to perform one or more functions associated with system . The term processor as generally used herein refers to any logic processing unit such as one or more central processing units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and similar devices. As illustrated in processor may be communicatively coupled to RAM ROM storage database I O module and interface module . Processor may be configured to execute sequences of computer program instructions to perform various processes which will be described in detail below. The computer program instructions may be loaded into RAM for execution by processor .

RAM and ROM may each include one or more devices for storing information associated with an operation of system and or processor . For example ROM may include a memory device configured to access and store information associated with system including information for identifying initializing and monitoring the operation of one or more components and subsystems of system . RAM may include a memory device for storing data associated with one or more operations of processor . For example ROM may load instructions into RAM for execution by processor .

Storage may include any type of storage device configured to store information that processor may need to perform processes consistent with the disclosed embodiments.

Database may include one or more software and or hardware components that cooperate to store organize sort filter and or arrange data used by system and or processor . For example database may include user specific account information predetermined menu display options and other user preferences. Alternatively database may store additional and or different information.

I O module may include one or more components configured to communicate information with a user associated with system . For example I O module may include a console with an integrated keyboard and mouse to allow a user to input parameters associated with system . I O module may also include a display including a graphical user interface GUI for outputting information on a monitor. I O module may also include peripheral devices such as for example a printer for printing information associated with system a user accessible disk drive e.g. a USB port a floppy CD ROM or DVD ROM drive etc. to allow a user to input data stored on a portable media device a microphone a speaker system or any other suitable type of interface device.

Interface may include one or more components configured to transmit and receive data via a communication network such as the Internet a local area network a workstation peer to peer network a direct link network a wireless network or any other suitable communication channel. For example interface may include one or more modulators demodulators multiplexers demultiplexers network communication devices wireless devices antennas modems and any other type of device configured to enable data communication via a communication network.

At step identification information associated with one or more assets entities and or social media profiles may be provided. In one embodiment a user desiring to assess the social media performance of one or more assets or entities may provide information identifying those assets or entities as well as information identifying one or more social media profiles to be associated with any or each of those assets entities. As described above each asset or entity may be associated with one or more social media profiles. Conversely each social media profile may be associated with one or more assets or entities.

The user may utilize a personal computer a tablet a smart phone or any other suitable processor based or controller based device to provide the identifying information and or transmit the identifying information to a host server. In particular the user may provide the identifying information via a dedicated software application installed on a user device. Alternatively the user may provide the identifying information to the host server via an Internet or web interface that facilitates communication between the user device and the host server e.g. a remotely hosted software application or software as a service SaaS . In other embodiments the user may communicate the identifying information in any suitable fashion.

In other embodiments the user may only provide identifying information associated with one or more assets or entities. In response to receiving the identifying information the host server may perform a search of one or more social media platforms and return a list of associated social media profiles to the user. In such an embodiment the user may then select which of the returned social media profiles should or may be included in an assessment with respect to each asset or entity identified.

In another aspect a user may also provide authentication information associated with each identified social media profile. The authentication information may among other things enable the host server to retrieve information pertaining to the social media profiles from one or more social media servers. In one embodiment the authentication information may comprise a username and or password for each identified social media profile. In other embodiments the authentication information may comprise some other suitable information for gaining access to the information associated with a social media profile.

At step the user may associate or tag each asset or entity for which social media performance is to be assessed with additional trait or characterization information. In one embodiment the user may manually input and or associate desired trait or characterization information with one or more assets. In other embodiments the host server may provide the user with a plurality of tags to selectively associate with one or more assets. In still further embodiments the host server may programmatically tag one or more assets with trait or characterization information based on other information provided by the user. It should be noted however that these examples are only illustrative and any suitable method or system for tagging one or more assets i.e. associating one or more assets with trait or characterization information is possible.

In one aspect one or more assets may be tagged with any trait information that may be helpful in assessing the asset s performance placing the asset s performance in a proper or desirable context and or identifying the asset s peers. The tagged information may also be useful in sorting the eventual performance assessment results presented to the user.

For example the asset may be tagged with information including but not limited to information identifying the a peer group to which the asset belongs an organization associated with the asset information identifying one or more tiers within a peer group s hierarchical structure to which the asset belongs information indicative of the industry in which the asset participates information identifying the job responsibilities of the asset information identifying which other assets within the peer group the asset may be related and for subsequent weighting purposes how closely the asset may be related to any such other assets information indicative of the geographic location reach or territory of the asset information indicative of the market size associated with the asset s activities information indicative of the target demographic associated with the asset s activities and or information identifying a time period associated with the asset s activities. It should be noted that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and assets may be tagged with any suitable information useful in the assessment of the asset s social media performance determining the members of an asset s peer group and or defining relationships between an asset and one or more other entities within an industry or hierarchical structure.

At step one or more peers associated with each asset or entity may be identified. In one embodiment any or all of the aforementioned asset entity social media profile identification information may serve to aid in the automated identification of those entities within an asset s peer group. In a further embodiment any or all of the tagged information i.e. trait or characterization information associated with one or more assets or social media profiles may be used to identify the members of an asset s peer group. For example any or all entities comprising one or more similar tags may be presumed to belong to a common peer group.

In one embodiment the host server may programmatically identify one or more entities sharing one or more common traits as compared to an asset. In such an embodiment the host server may automatedly construct peer groups for one or more of the assets. Alternatively the host server may provide the user with a list of the one or more programmatically identified entities such that the user is then afforded an opportunity to selectively include one or more of those entities within each asset s peer group. Additionally or alternatively the user may manually identify entities to include within each asset s peer group. Regardless of the particular method employed for any or each asset the user may be afforded an opportunity to customize a peer group comprising one or more other entities.

One or more social media profiles may then be associated with any or each entity within the peer group s in a manner substantially similar to that described above with respect to the user s assets or entities. Moreover each peer group and or peer group member may be tagged with trait or characterization information in a manner substantially similar to that described above with respect to previously identified assets.

At step the asset entity and peer group information including any or all associated social media profile information may be used to collect relevant data from one or more social media platforms. In one embodiment a data request may be generated based at least in part on the asset entity or peer group information including any or all associated social media profile information. The data request may then be transmitted to one or more social media platforms from either the host server or the user s device. In one embodiment the data request may be transmitted to the social media platforms via one or more APIs associated with the respective platforms. In another embodiment the data request may be accompanied by authentication information or credentials for verifying the validity of the request.

In one embodiment the data request may request all of the data maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform. This data may include but is not limited to data associated with any or all members of the social media platform including information provided directly from those members and information indicative of the members activities over the social media platform.

In other embodiments all of the data maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform that may be associated with one or more social media profiles may be requested. In particular all information associated with the social media profiles identified in steps may be requested. Such social media profiles may comprise one or more social media profiles associated with the assets and or one or more social media profiles associated with other entities within those assets respective peer groups. In a further embodiment only a subset of data maintained in one or more databases of the social media platform that may be associated with one or more social media profiles may be requested. The data associated with a social media profile may include but is not limited to data associated with those assets entities or peer groups affiliated with the social media profile as well as data associated with those members of the social media platform that in some way interacted with the respective social media profile.

In another aspect and depending upon the permissions and or policies of each social media platform a data request may be transmitted to one or more social media platforms to initiate the transmission of historical data associated with one or more social media profiles an ongoing real time stream of data associated with one or more social media profiles or periodic transmissions of the latest available data at predetermined time intervals. In some embodiments any one or more of the aforementioned requests may be accomplished with a single request and or transmission of authentication information or alternatively may be accomplished through a plurality of requests and or authentication information transmissions. For example where an ongoing real time data stream associated with one or more social media profiles is requested updated authentication information may be periodically transmitted at predetermined intervals in order to receive the stream in an uninterrupted fashion.

In another aspect where one or more social media profiles may include public conversations as discussed previously herein a data request transmitted to one or more social media platforms may comprise one or more keywords for searching any or all publically available data of the respective social media platform. In an alternative embodiment all publically available data may be requested or a subset of the publically available data may be requested based at least in part on some criteria different from or in addition to keywords.

In a further aspect any data may be requested from one or more social media servers that may be useful in conjunction with assessing the social media performance of an asset entity or peer group. In one embodiment and as set forth in steps data may be requested from one or more social media platforms for assessing any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach of an asset s social media presence or performance. As described above an asset s social media audience voice engagement or reach may comprise the audience voice engagement or reach respectively of one or more social media profiles associated with that asset.

In particular at step data indicative of the audience associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved or collected from one or more respective social media platforms. As previously described the audience associated with a social media profile may reflect a relationship between a social media profile and other users of the social media platform. In one embodiment the audience associated with a social media profile may indicate the number of social media users that have confirmed a relationship with the social media profile on the respective social media platform. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the audience associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to friends followers or fans associated with the social media profile. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the audience associated with a social media profile.

At step data indicative of the voice associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved or collected form one or more respective social media platforms. As described above the voice associated with a social media profile may reflect a messaging activity level associated with a social media profile. In one embodiment the voice associated with a social media profile may indicate the frequency with which content is published to the social media platform by an entity that maintains the social media profile. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the voice associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to posts comments tweets replies or re tweets associated with the social media profile. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the voice associated with a social media profile. In still further embodiments content published by the audience or other members of the respective social media platform may also be included among the components of the voice associated with a social media profile though content published by the asset that maintains the social media profile may be weighed differently than content published by the audience or other members. Additionally information indicative of the media format associated with each component may be retrieved or collected from the one or more social media platforms. Such format information may be taken into consideration when weighing the components.

Data indicative of the engagement associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved or collected form one or more respective social media platforms at step . As described above the engagement associated with a social media profile may reflect an ability for the social media profile to communicate a message reliably i.e. while the voice associated with a social media profile may indicate the frequency with which content is published by an entity that maintains the social media profile engagement may indicate whether that activity is worthwhile. In one embodiment the engagement associated with a social media profile may indicate whether other users of the respective social media platform are interacting with the published content. In a further embodiment and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the engagement associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to shares likes comments mentions re tweets favorites and replies and may also include but may not be limited to hashtag mentions and or search term keyword matches within a public conversation. In some embodiments these components may or may not be weighted equally when determining the engagement associated with a social media profile. In still further embodiments interactions with published content by any one or more of the asset that maintains the social media profile the audience of the social media profile and other members of the respective social media platform may be included in one or more of the components of the voice associated with the social media profile though interactions by the asset that maintains the social media profile may be weighed differently than interactions by the audience or other members. Additionally information indicative of the media format associated with each component may be retrieved or collected from the one or more social media platforms. Such format information may be taken into consideration when weighing the components.

In a further aspect data indicative of the reach associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved or collected form one or more respective social media platforms at step . As set forth above the reach associated with a social media profile may reflect a potential first and second order audience i.e. while the audience associated with a social media profile may indicate the number of platform members that have confirmed a relationship with the social media profile reach may indicate whether that audience is a beneficial or useful audience. In one embodiment the reach associated with a social media profile may indicate both the audience associated with the social media profile as well as the audience of the audience. In a further embodiment rather than simply taking into consideration the audience of the audience the reach associated with a social media profile may take into consideration the audience of the engaged audience i.e. the audience of those social media platform members that not only are considered a part of the social media profile s audience but those members that have engaged the content associated with the social media profile.

In alternative embodiments data indicative of any one or more but not necessarily each of the audience voice engagement and reach associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved. Further the data indicative of one or more of the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with an asset or social media profile may be retrieved or collected in any suitable order or it may be collected simultaneously or at an overlapping time. Data collection restraints and or other limitations imposed by the one or more social media platforms may further dictate how when or in what order particular data may be retrieved.

Regardless of how an asset is identified at step each of the asset s associated social media profiles may be identified. In one embodiment one or more social media profiles may be stored in an accessible database and associated with corresponding assets. In this manner the one or more social media profiles that serve as the basis for an asset s social media performance may be easily identified and or recalled.

Similarly the other entities belonging to the asset s peer group may be identified at step . In one embodiment peer group information may be stored in an accessible database and associated with corresponding assets. In this manner the one or more peer groups to which an asset belongs and any entity therein may be easily identified and or recalled. Further upon identification of each entity in the asset s peer group one or more of the social profiles that serve as the basis for each of those entity s social media performance may be identified and or recalled in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the asset.

At steps one or more aspects of the asset s social media performance may be assessed. In one embodiment the audience voice engagement and reach associated with an asset s social media performance may be assessed at steps and respectively. In a further embodiment any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach associated with an asset s social media performance may be determined using Equation 4 a or 4 b above. In particular where Equation 4 b is used each social media profile contributing to the assessment of the respective aspect i.e. audience voice engagement or reach may be assigned a weight. Such weights may reflect the relative control or influence an asset has with respect to activities associated with social media profile. Alternatively or additionally such weights may reflect the inter or intra organizational proximity of the social media profile to the asset. In other words a social media profile directly maintained by the asset may be assigned a greater weight than a social media profile directly maintained by another entity within the same or a different tier of a peer group. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the social media performance of an asset and Equations 4 a and 4 b are only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that any one or more of steps may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step one or more aspects of the social media performance of the peer group to which the asset belongs may be assessed. Similar to steps the audience voice engagement and reach associated with the peer group s social media performance may be assessed at steps and respectively. Assessing these aspects of the peer group s performance is substantially similar to assessing the same aspects of the asset s performance. In one embodiment whereas assessing the performance of an asset may comprise assessing the performance of each social media profile associated with the asset assessing the performance of a peer group may comprise assessing the performance of each social media profile associated with the peer group which would necessarily include the same social media profiles assessed with respect to the asset . Thus as is the case when assessing an asset any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach associated with a peer group s social media performance may be determined using Equation 4 a or 4 b above. Where Equation 4 b is used each social media profile contributing to the assessment of the respective aspect i.e. audience voice engagement or reach of the peer group s performance may be assigned a weight. Other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the social media performance of a peer group and Equations 4 a and 4 b are only illustrative of the possibilities. Moreover it should be noted that any one or more of steps and may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps and may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

Once the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with both an asset s social media performance and a corresponding peer group s social media performance has been determined the asset s share of the audience share of the voice share of the engagement and or share of the reach associated with a peer group may be determined. In one embodiment an asset s share of audience voice engagement and or reach may represent a portion or percentage of a total audience voice engagement and or reach respectively associated with the peer group that includes the asset. In a further embodiment the share of an asset s audience voice engagement and or reach may be determined using Equation 7 above. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine an asset s share of the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the social media performance of a peer group and Equation 7 is only illustrative of the possibilities.

In one embodiment at step aspects of the social media performance of a plurality of assets may be assessed. In one embodiment the audience voice engagement and reach associated with each asset s social media performance may be assessed at steps and respectively. In a further embodiment any one or more of the audience voice engagement and reach associated with each asset s social media performance may be determined using Equation 4 a or 4 b above. In particular where Equation 4 b is used each social media profile contributing to the assessment of a respective aspect i.e. audience voice engagement or reach for each asset may be assigned a weight. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the social media performance of each asset and Equations 4 a and 4 b are only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that any one or more of steps may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step the performance assessments associated with each asset may be used to calculate the average social media performance across the peer group. In particular the audience associated with each asset in the peer group step may be used to determine an average audience for the peer group step the voice associated with each asset in the peer group step may be used to determine an average voice for the peer group the engagement associated with each asset in the peer group step may be used to determine an average engagement for the peer group and the reach associated with each asset in the peer group step may be used to determine an average reach for the peer group . In one embodiment Equation 8 described above may be used to determine the average social media performance for any one or more aspects of the peer group. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the average audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the social media performance of a peer group and Equation 8 is only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that any one or more of steps may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step the standard deviation associated with one or more aspects of a peer group s performance assessments may be determined. In particular the audience associated with each asset in the peer group step and the average audience for the peer group step may be used to determine the standard deviation of the audience associated with the peer group step the voice associated with each asset in the peer group step and the average voice for the peer group step may be used to determine the standard deviation of the voice associated with the peer group step the engagement associated with each asset in the peer group step and the average engagement for the peer group step may be used to determine the standard deviation of the engagement associated with the peer group step and the reach associated with each asset in the peer group step and the average reach for the peer group step may be used to determine the standard deviation of the reach associated with the peer group step . In one embodiment Equation 9 described above may be used to determine the standard deviation associated with any one or more aspects of the peer group s social media performance. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the standard deviation associated with any one or more aspects of the peer group s social media performance and Equation 9 is only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that any one or more of steps may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step a comparative score for each aspect of each asset s social media performance may be determined. In one embodiment a comparative score may be determined for any one or more of the audience step voice step engagement step or reach step associated with each asset of a peer group. Such comparative scores may then be used to directly compare and or rank assets or entities within a peer group against each other within the context of the corresponding aspect. In one embodiment a comparative score for each aspect of each asset s social media performance may be determined using Equation 10 above. In particular Equation 10 may be used to determine a percentile score for each aspect of each asset s social media performance. As described above there may be a number of advantages to presenting and or ranking a plurality of assets in accordance with their respective percentile scores. For example such a scoring methodology yields an intuitive range of resulting scores bound by 0 and 100 and it may be immediately recognized in what percentile of the peer group the asset s performance falls. This methodology also provides for easier movement of scores within the mid range of the peer group than at the tails or extremes. In other words an asset may find it easier to improve its percentile score from 50 to 60 than from 60 to 70 and easier still than improving from 70 to 80. In fact improvement or degradation of a percentile score becomes very difficult the closer the asset s score approaches 100 or 0 respectively.

In another embodiment a comparative score for each aspect of each asset s social media performance may be determined using Equation 11 above. In particular Equation 11 may be used to determine a T score for each aspect of each asset s social media performance. As described previously herein presenting and or ranking assets or entities within a peer group in accordance with their respective T scores also has advantages. Like the percentile scores this methodology yields an intuitive range of resulting scores bound by 0 and 100. Additionally this methods affords a wider range of resulting scores at the extreme ends of the spectrum as percentile scores may result in a score of 0 for all entities with assessment scores falling more than 3 standard deviations below the mean for the peer group and or a score of 100 for all entities with assessment scores greater than 3 standard deviations above the mean for the peer group.

Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine a comparative score associated with any one or more aspects of each asset s social media performance and Equations 10 and 11 are only illustrative of the possibilities. It should also be noted that any one or more of steps may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally any one or more of steps may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step any one or more comparative scores associated with respective aspects of an asset s social media performance may be combined into a single composite score. For example a composite score for an asset may be determined based at least in part on any one or more of its comparative audience score its comparative voice score its comparative engagement score and or its comparative reach score. In one embodiment a composite score may be determined for one or more assets in the peer group using Equation 12 above. In one aspect either a percentile score or a T score described above with respect to steps may be used to determine each component upon which the composite score may be based provided all components of the composite score are based on the same scoring methodology .

In a further embodiment the influence and impact determinations for an asset e.g. Equations 5 and 6 may also be taken into consideration when calculating the composite score associated with one or more assets. In such an embodiment the influence and or impact components may be afforded their own respective weights when determining a composite score that includes them.

In alternative embodiments a composite score may also be calculated based on the share of audience share of voice share of engagement and share of reach assessments described above and depicted in . Such a composite score in one embodiment may be determined using Equation 12 and may be based at least in part on one or more share assessments determined using Equation 7 .

On the other hand the impact associated with a social media profile or asset may reflect among other things an efficiency with which the social media profile or asset may generate influence and or engagement. In one embodiment the impact associated with a social media profile or asset may represent a ratio of the engagement associated with the social media profile or asset to the reach associated with the social media profile similar to the influence but further take into account the voice associated with the social media profile. Thus and for example assuming two social media profiles or assets having equal influence and or engagement the social media profile or asset associated with less voice may have greater impact as less energy may be exerted while achieving equal results as compared to the other social media profile or asset.

In one aspect at steps and the engagement and reach associated with a social media profile or asset may be determined. In one embodiment the engagement and reach associated with the social media performance of a social media profile may be determined using Equation 1 described above while the engagement and reach associated with the social media performance of an asset comprising one or more social media profiles may be determined using either of Equations 4 a or 4 b also described above. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the engagement and reach associated with a social media profile or asset and Equations 1 4 a and 4 b are only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that steps and may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally steps and may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step an influence associated with the social media profile or asset may be determined based at least in part on the engagement and reach determinations made at steps and respectively. In one embodiment the influence associated with the social media performance of a social media profile may be determined using Equation 2 described above while the influence associated with the social media performance of an asset comprising one or more social media profiles may be determined using Equation 5 also described above. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the influence associated with a social media profile or asset and Equations 2 and 5 are only illustrative of the possibilities.

At step the voice associated with a social media profile or asset may be determined. In one embodiment the voice associated with the social media performance of a social media profile may be determined using Equation 1 described above while the voice associated with the social media performance of an asset comprising one or more social media profiles may be determined using either of Equations 4 a or 4 b also described above. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the voice associated with a social media profile or asset and Equations 1 4 a and 4 b are only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that steps and may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally steps and may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times. Moreover steps and may be performed in in any order parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

At step an impact associated with the social media profile or asset may be determined based at least in part on the influence and voice determinations made at steps and respectively. In one embodiment the impact associated with the social media performance of a social media profile may be determined using Equation 3 described above while the impact associated with the social media performance of an asset comprising one or more social media profiles may be determined using Equation 6 also described above. Of course other suitable methods and or algorithms may also be used to determine the impact associated with a social media profile or asset and Equations 3 and 6 are only illustrative of the possibilities.

It should also be noted that steps and may be performed in any suitable order. Alternatively or additionally steps and may be performed in parallel simultaneously or at overlapping times.

In one aspect a hierarchical structure is depicted that may be substantially similar to structure depicted in . In one embodiment structure may comprise four vertical tiers each tier representing one or more subsets or groupings within the hierarchy. Of course in alternative embodiments structure may comprise additional or fewer tiers. In particular the first tier may represent a peer group or asset that may comprise every other asset within the hierarchical structure. Each subsequent tier i.e. tiers and may comprise progressively narrower subsets or groups than the previous tier and or represent one or more subsets or groups of the assets belonging to the previous tier in the hierarchy. At tier 4 the lowest tier in the embodiment depicted in each asset may represent an individual or even a subset of an individual s responsibilities.

In another aspect any or all assets within structure may be associated with one or more social media profiles. The profiles may comprise platform specific user profiles and may be used to among other things communicate announcements politicize events advertise products disseminate news stories or otherwise reach customers consumers or the public. For example one or more assets of structure may be associated with one or more of a FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN and INSTAGRAM profile.

In a further aspect where the audience voice engagement and or reach associated with an asset s social media performance may be determined using Equation 4 b each social media profile upon which the determination may be based may be afforded its own weight c. In this manner and in one embodiment social media profiles more closely related to an asset and or more reflective of the asset s social media activity may be afforded greater weight than other social media profiles that are more tangentially related to the asset. In other embodiments the weighting of the various social media profiles to be included in a performance assessment may depend upon other factors such as the particular social media platform associated with the social media profile.

In one embodiment each asset within a peer group may have one or more social media profiles for which it is responsible for placing content and or engaging with the public. Thus when assessing the social media performance of an asset any such social media profiles for which the asset is directly responsible i.e. primary social media profiles may be included in the assessment. However social media profiles for which the asset may not be directly responsible i.e. secondary social media profiles may also be included in the assessment. For example and again where an assessment of an asset s performance weights the various social media profiles that may be taken into account primary social media profiles may be afforded greater weight than secondary social media profiles.

Moreover depending upon whether the entity that is directly responsible for a secondary social media profile may be classified as within the same tier of structure as the asset being assessed or a different tier than the asset being assessed the effect that a secondary social media profile may have upon the asset s performance assessment may be deemed horizontal goodwill or vertical goodwill respectively. Thus an assessment of the social media performance of each asset within hierarchical structure may account for the contributions both positive and negative of other entities within the same structure.

In one aspect the arrows depicted in may represent examples of the effect one asset s social media performance may have on another i.e. horizontal and vertical goodwill. More precisely the arrows depicted in may represent the effect that a secondary social media profile directly maintained by one asset has on the social media performance of another asset that does not have direct responsibility for the secondary social media profile.

In one embodiment each of asset and may be associated with one or more social media profiles that they maintain or are directly responsible for independent of one another i.e. respective primary social media profiles . Nonetheless when assessing the social media performance of asset the primary social media profile of asset may be included in the assessment as a secondary social media profile associated with asset . In a further embodiment a portion of asset s assessment attributable to or based on that secondary social media profile may be afforded less weight than the portion attributable to or based on a primary social media profile. Moreover because asset and may belong to the same tier of peer group any effect that a social media profile maintained by asset may have on the performance assessment of asset positive or negative may be deemed horizontal goodwill.

In another embodiment any similar effect that a social media profile maintained by asset may have on a performance assessment of positive or negative may also be deemed horizontal goodwill. As depicted in though assets and each belong to a common tier of peer group i.e. a fourth tier assets and may belong to a common asset of tier 3. Asset may be for example a department section division or local office of peer group . Asset on the other hand may belong to an asset which may belong to a same tier of peer group as asset i.e. the third tier . In such an embodiment when assessing the social media performance of not only may an assessment of any social media profiles maintained by asset be taken into consideration but any social media profiles maintained by asset may also be taken into consideration. Further any effect that a social media profile maintained by asset may have on the performance assessment of asset positive or negative may be deemed horizontal goodwill. However because assets and may belong to a common tier 3 entity i.e. asset and asset may belong to a different tier 3 entity i.e. asset a portion of asset s assessment attributable to or based on a social media profile maintained by asset may be afforded less weight than a portion attributable to or based on a social media profile maintained by asset

Similar instances of horizontal goodwill i.e. the effect one asset s primary social media profile s performance may have on the performance assessment of another asset belonging to a same tier may also be present at other tiers of peer group . For example any effect that the primary social media profile of asset may have on an assessment of the social media performance of asset may be deemed horizontal goodwill and vice versa. Comparable instances of horizontal goodwill may also be present within the second tier of peer group where the performance of a primary social media profile of asset may affect a performance assessment of another entity belonging to the second tier not shown in .

In another aspect examples of vertical goodwill are also depicted in . For example a social media performance assessment of asset may not only take one or more primary social media profiles into consideration but also one or more social media profiles maintained by asset or . Because asset belongs to a different tier of peer group i.e. a third tier as compared to assets and i.e. a second tier any effect that the social media profiles maintained by asset or may have on a performance assessment of asset positive or negative may be deemed vertical goodwill. It should be noted however that a weight afforded each of the social media profiles maintained by assets and may not necessarily be the same.

In another embodiment the performance of a social media profile maintained by asset a fourth tier asset for example may be taken into consideration when assessing the social media performance of asset a third tier asset despite the fact that asset may not belong to an entity subset or group of asset . In such an embodiment the performance of a social media profile maintained by asset may be weighted in a manner reflective of the tangential relationship between asset and asset . For example where an assessment of the social media performance of asset may take into consideration the performance of social media profiles maintained by both assets and the performance of the social media profile maintained by asset may be afforded more weight than the performance of the social media profile maintained by asset . Of course these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any suitable weight may be afforded the performance of any social media profile in structure .

In a further aspect vertical goodwill may not necessarily extend only one vertical tier. In one embodiment not only may the performance of a social media profile maintained by asset a fourth tier asset be taken into consideration when assessing the social media performance of asset a third tier asset but the performance of the social media profile maintained by asset may also be taken into consideration when assessing the social media performance of asset or . In such embodiments a weight afforded the performance of a social media profile maintained by asset may be reflective of the degrees of separation i.e. the organizational or structural distance between asset and the asset whose performance is being assessed. In other words the weight afforded the performance of a social media profile maintained by asset may be greater when assessing the performance of asset than when assessing the performance of asset and greater still than when assessing the performance of asset .

Though the foregoing examples of vertical goodwill demonstrate how the performance of a social media profile maintained by an asset may be taken into consideration during a performance assessment an asset belonging to a higher tier vertical goodwill may also flow in an opposite direction. For example the performance of a social media profile maintained by any one or more of asset asset asset and asset may be taken into consideration when assessing the social media performance of asset or . Moreover a weight afforded the performance of a social media profile maintained by an entity belonging to a higher tier may reflect the degrees of separation or structural distance between the maintaining asset and the asset whose performance is being assessed.

In addition to assessing the performance of one or more assets and or social media profiles the velocity of a content item published on a social media platform may also be assessed. As described above the engagement associated with a social media profile may indicate whether members of a social media platform are interacting with content published by an asset maintaining the social media profile. As described above and depending on the nomenclature used by the respective social media platform the engagement associated with a social media profile may be based at least in part on one or more components including but not limited to shares likes comments mentions re tweets favorites and replies and may also include but may not be limited to hashtag mentions and or search term keyword matches within a public conversation.

Velocity as used herein may represent a derivative or rate of change of one or more engagement components with respect to a content item. As such a high velocity may be associated with a popular or quickly disseminating content item. Identification of such content items may be useful to a user for a variety of reasons.

In one embodiment detection of an engagement of a content item may be based at least in part on data retrieved from one or more social media platforms by the host server. The retrieved data may be transmitted to any one or more of a data retrieval module a streaming module a supplemental data module or an assessment module as described above with respect to . Any or all of these modules may be further configured to detect a new engagement not previously retrieved from the one or more social media platforms.

Upon detection of a new engagement with respect to a content item an initial velocity for that content item may be determined at step . In one embodiment the initial velocity for a content item may be determined by the total number of engagements to date with respect to that content item divided by the period of time that may have lapsed since the content item was initially published via the respective social media profile. In some embodiments the period of time that may lapsed since the content item was initially published may be considered in terms of seconds microseconds minutes hours or days. Of course these units of time are only illustrative of the possibilities.

In one example where a new engagement for example a re tweet is detected with respect to a content item published via a respective social media profile on the TWITTER platform the host server may retrieve information indicative of the total number of engagements associated with that content item to date. Such information may be retrieved from the TWITTER social media platform or it may be stored in a database associated with the host server. The total number of engagements associated with the content to date may reflect a running total of for example all re tweets favorites mentions and hashtag mentions as well as any keyword matches within a public conversation associated with the content item since the content item was first published. This total number of engagements may then be divided by the time that may lapsed since the content item was published for example x seconds. The resulting quotient may represent the current or initial velocity associated with the content item.

At step this current or initial velocity may be compared to a threshold velocity. In one embodiment the threshold velocity may be some predetermined velocity value above which a content item may be said to be trending or otherwise quickly disseminating over the respective social media platform. For example the threshold may be y number of engagements per second. It should be noted however that the threshold may be any suitable number of engagements over any suitable period of time.

Where the current or initial velocity of the content item is below the threshold no further immediate action may be necessary with respect to the content item until another new engagement is detected. Upon detection of a new engagement associated with the content item the aforementioned process may repeat itself beginning with step .

On the other hand where the current or initial velocity of the content item is above the threshold the content item may be transmitted or otherwise written to a list of trending content at step . In one embodiment the list of trending content may comprise one or more content items each associated with a velocity deemed reflective of relatively quickly disseminating content. The list of trending content may be maintained in a database associated with host server or within storage associated with any module of the host server including but not limited to the assessment module or the presentation module.

At step upon the addition of the content item to the trending content list the present velocity of each content item on the trending content list may be determined. In one embodiment the velocity associated with each content item on the trending content list may be determined in a fashion substantially similar to the method employed for determining the initial velocity of a content item at step . In other words for each content item in the trending content list a total number of engagements to date may be determined and that number may be divided by the time that may have lapsed since the content was first published.

After a present velocity has been determined for each content item in the trending content list the list may be sorted based at least in part on the respective velocity determinations. In this manner content associated with the highest velocity may be presented at the top of the trending content list and content associated with the lowest velocity may be presented at the bottom of the trending content list.

In one aspect as content gains traction over a social media platform its associated velocity may increase and assuming the velocity associated with the content item was greater than a predetermined threshold that content item may rise within the trending content list. Conversely as content grows stale and or loses traction within a social media platform its associated velocity may decrease and that content item may fall within the trending content list. Further details regarding the content list including how the list may be presented to a user within a GUI are described below with respect to .

In another aspect information identifying the most engaging social media content items associated with each asset may be presented. In one embodiment the social media content may be content placed on a social media platform by the asset. Alternatively the social media content may reflect a conversation started by an entity or platform member other than the asset but otherwise associated with the asset e.g. the asset may be mentioned by name in the conversation. Ancillary information pertaining to the most engaging social media content for each asset may also be presented. In some embodiments the original content and or a most recent engagement with the original content may be presented. Additionally or alternatively further information indicating how members of a social media platform have interacted with the most engaging social media content may be displayed. For example information may be displayed indicating how many members have viewed the content and or how many members have engaged the content. Of course additional or alternative information indicative of members interactions with the content may also be displayed and the aforementioned examples are not intended to be exhaustive of the possibilities.

In a further aspect information indicative of a sentiment surrounding each presented asset may be displayed. In one embodiment social media content associated with each asset may be analyzed over a predetermined time period and it may be determined whether the general sentiment surrounding the content is favorable or unfavorable and to what extent. Sentiment may be determined through analysis of text keywords or character strings associated with the content item and or asset. Systems and methods for analyzing social media content and calculating a sentiment associated with the content are known and any such system or method is suitable for use in the GUI described herein.

A user presented with data reflective of an asset s performance assessment within the content of a peer group the assessments of one or more entities within the peer group information indicative of any recent changes in the assessments and or the sentiment surrounding content items associated with each asset or entity may gain an appreciation not only for how the asset s social media performance currently compares to its peers but whether the asset is engaging in behavior likely to result in a future rise or fall in performance with respect to the peer group. A user may also appreciate apart from an asset s performance assessment whether the asset s recent efforts are outperforming or underperforming those of its peers.

In another aspect of the GUI presented in one or more drop down menus or selectable filters may be presented to the user for manipulation. These filters may correspond in some embodiments to information tagged or otherwise associated with one or more assets entities social media profiles and or peer groups. Information tagging is discussed in more detail above with respect to . Moreover because a user may select or otherwise determine the types of information with which to tag one or more assets entities social media profiles and or peer groups the user may also select or otherwise determine the types of corresponding filters are displayed within the GUI. For example where a user elects not to tag any assets entities social media profiles and or peer groups with geographic data or otherwise indicates that geographic considerations are unimportant a geographic filter may not be present or displayed within the GUI.

In one embodiment a user of the GUI may select from which social media platforms data is to be analyzed and or presented. A user may further select a tier within a peer group for which the user desires to receive information and or a subset of entities within a tier. Moreover each the options available in any one or more menus may be responsive to input received at another. For example a user s selection within a vertical tier drop down menu or filter may have an effect on the options available under the peer group drop down menu or filter.

Additional drop down menus or filters may also be present for limiting and or refining the presented assessment information. For example using a market size drop down menu or filter a user may be able to select between a small mid size large and or mega market. Alternatively a user may be able to select all markets or a subset of markets. In this manner the user may dynamically define a peer group within which an asset may be assessed.

A user may further define a peer group using geographic filters. For example a user may limit a peer group to entities located in the same country time zone state zip code county school zone or voting precinct. The user may also select no geographic restraints. Of course other geographic restraints are also possible and the aforementioned list is only illustrative of the possibilities.

In a further aspect the user may also select a time frame over which to collect and analyze social media data. The time frames may be for example a minute an hour a day a week or a month. Of course these examples are only illustrative and other suitable time frame may be possible including but not limited to a real time stream of all available data that may or may not include all or a subset of historical data. In any such embodiments and as described above in more detail different time intervals within the selected time frame may be weighted in some suitable fashion. For example more recent activity may be weighted more heavily than relatively old or stale activity. Using the selectable time frames in this manner in instances where the impact of an event report story or activity is of particular interest a user may select a time frame such that only data collected since the occurrence of the event report story or activity may be analyzed and or presented within the GUI.

A user may also be afforded an opportunity to define a demographic subset of social media users from which to analyze and or present assessment information. For example a user may be interested in an asset s social media performance and that of its peers among a particular demographic such as for example men between 25 and 50 years old or women over 50 years old.

Using any combination of the one or more filters a user may define re define or customize a peer group and or the presented assessment information to best suit the user s needs. For example the user may view relatively high level performance assessments for a large or loosely defined peer group by applying few if any filters or the user may view relatively micro level assessments corresponding to a narrowly tailored peer group by applying a number or all of the available filters.

GUI may further present information indicative of a Historical record . Among other things this feature may present information pertaining to each presented asset indicative of 1 the asset s identity 2 the asset s current assessment rank within its peer group 3 the asset s highest rank to date 4 the date on which the asset achieved its highest rank 5 the date on which the asset first entered the ranking and or 6 the number of places the asset has risen or fallen since any preceding assessments were conducted. Of course these examples only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may also be presented within the Historical record.

In some embodiments of the GUI such as the embodiment depicted in a Most Recent record may be displayed or presented. This record may comprise a list of the most recent social media activity of all assets for which assessment data is presented within the GUI. This listing may be presented in ascending or descending order and may provide a user with information regarding which assets have most recently been active within a social media platform. Among other things this feature may present information pertaining to 1 an asset s identity 2 the time elapsed since the asset s most recent social media activity and or 3 information indicative of the content associated with the asset s most recent social media activity. Of course these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may also be presented within the Most Recent record.

In one aspect performance assessment information may accompany each asset within peer group . In one embodiment the performance assessment information may comprise performance assessment share information and performance assessment composite information . Systems and methods for determining the share information and composite information is described above.

In another aspect the share information may comprise any one or more of a share of audience a share of voice a share of engagement and a share of reach associated with each asset within peer group . In one embodiment the share information may further comprise a graphical representation of share information. For example graphical representation may graphically depict any one of the share of audience voice engagement or reach associated with an asset . In further embodiments the overall size of graphical representation may reflect the market size of peer group or the market size of a corresponding asset . Market or filter information substantially similar to that described with respect to may also be displayed within the GUI.

In a further aspect the GUI depicted in may comprise a chart graphically depicting the performance assessments of each asset in peer group over time. In one embodiment chart may comprise a line graph depicting performance assessments along a y axis over time along an x axis. Moreover a user may navigate to different time frames using an element of the GUI. Of course other charts or graphical representations of performance assessment information pertaining to one or more entities may also be presented and chart is only illustrative of one possibility.

In particular performance assessment information may be charted for each asset represented by lines and respectively. More detailed information regarding performance assessment information at a selected time may also be depicted at chart . For example a user may select a point in time at which to view performance assessment information corresponding to each asset . Performance assessment information may comprise any type of assessment information corresponding to point in time including but not limited to composite information share information and comparative score information.

In one aspect not only may assessment information be presented for each asset within peer group but performance assessment information may be presented for associated assets belonging to lower or higher tiers of peer group . In one embodiment one or more assets may be selected from peer group a selection may be indicated by the grayed out area surrounding the ABC asset in . One or more associated assets belonging to a higher or lower tier of peer group and associated with any selected assets may then be presented. In this manner a user may simultaneously view performance assessment information pertaining to multiple tiers of a peer group or an industry as a whole. Such a multi tier view affords the user a great deal of context within which to assess the performance of one or more assets and intuitively decipher how the social media performance of one or more assets within a first tier of a peer group may affect the social media performance of one or more assets within another tier of the peer group.

These one or more associated assets may represent assets whose primary social media profiles were taken into consideration when assessing the social media performance of an asset of peer group . In such an embodiment the one or more associated assets may represent their own peer group i.e. a plurality of assets each of which contributes to the social media performance of an asset . 

In one embodiment performance assessment information may accompany each of the associated assets and reflect the social media performance of those associated assets . For example one associated asset may be accompanied by a composite score rank information indicative of where the respective associated asset ranks among its peer group with respect to social media performance. As discussed above the composite score rank may be based on various composite scores including but not limited to a percentile score a T score or a share assessment.

Alternatively or additionally each associated asset may be presented in conjunction with share information comprising any one or more of a share of audience a share of voice a share of engagement and a share of reach for each associated asset . Additional composite score information may also be presented upon which rank information may be based.

In a further embodiment each associated asset may be further accompanied by an indicator indicating one or more social media platforms from which data may have been retrieved and or analyzed for assessing the performance of the respective associated asset .

In another aspect the GUI depicted in may further comprise a list of social media content items . In one embodiment the content items may be content items published to one or more social media platforms by any one or more of assets . In an alternative embodiment the content items may be content items published by any one or more of associated assets . In other embodiments the content items may be content items published by any or more of a combination of assets and associated assets .

Among other things the list of content items may present information comprising 1 information identifying the asset that published the respective content 2 information identifying the social media platform at which the content was published 3 the published content or a portion thereof 4 the time and or date on which the content was published and or 5 a link for accessing additional information associated with each content item. Of course these examples only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may also be presented within the list of content items .

In a further aspect content list may comprise a plurality of selectable lists selectable using for example tabs at the top of content list . In one embodiment content list may comprise for example a live stream list a top content list and or a trending content list. A live stream list may comprise a list of content items as they are published over one or more social media platforms. Such a list may be updated in real time as content items publish or as new content items are retrieved from the one or more social media servers. In a further embodiment the newest or most recently published content items may appear at the top of the list while older content items move progressively further down the list as new content items appear.

A top content list may among other things rank content items based on one or more criteria. For instance content items retrieved from the one or more social media servers may be ranked according to any one or more of their respective audience voice engagement reach influence or impact. As an example content items at the top of the list may reflect those content items with the highest engagement as described above . As additional data may be retrieved from the one or more social media platforms whether in real time or otherwise engagement information may be updated with respect to each content item and the top content list may be updated accordingly.

Similarly a trending content list may among other things rank content items based on one or more criteria. In one embodiment content items presented in the trending content list may be ranked based at least in part on the velocity associated with each content item. Systems and methods for determining a velocity associated with a content item are presented in more detail above. Content items at the top of the trending content list may represent those content items associated with the highest velocity while the content items lower on the list may be associated with progressively lower velocity. As additional data may be retrieved from the one or more social media platforms whether in real time or otherwise the velocity associated with each content item may be updated and the trending content list may be updated accordingly.

In one aspect an asset may be identified and presented in conjunction with performance assessment information and . In one embodiment assessment information may reflect one or more composite scores associated with asset including but not limited to a composite share score a composite T score and or a composite percentile score. Assessment information and on the other hand may reflect social media platform specific information such as but not limited to one or more of a composite share score a composite T score and or a composite percentile score with respect to a specific social media platform. Selection or identification of asset may be performed among other ways using a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment selection of an asset filter such as may present a list of one or more assets within a common tier of a peer group. An asset to be featured within the GUI may then be selected from filter here as an example New York Channel has been highlighted and or selected .

In another aspect associated assets and may be presented in the GUI in conjunction with assessment information associated with each respective associated asset. As described above with respect to associated assets and may represent assets within the same peer group but belonging to a different tier as compared to asset . For example assets and may be assets the social media performance of which affect or otherwise taken into consideration when determining the social media performance of asset . In the particular embodiment depicted asset may be a local news station e.g. New York Channel and assets and may be television personalities or news anchors appearing on the local news station.

In conjunction with each associated asset performance assessment information pertaining to the respective asset may be presented. In one embodiment each associated asset may be presented in conjunction with rank information score information and or an assessment graph .

In one embodiment rank information indicative of where an associated asset ranks among its peer group with respect to social media performance may be presented for one or more associated assets. As discussed above the rank information may be based at least in part on any performance assessment information including but not limited to a composite score. In further embodiments such a composite score may be based at least in part on any one or more of a percentile score a T score or a share assessment score. Moreover each associated asset may be displayed in a list sorted in accordance with its corresponding rank within a peer group.

Score information may represent any suitable assessment information pertaining to an associated asset. For example score information may comprise any one or more of a composite score such as a composite percentile score a composite T score or a composite share assessment score. Additionally or alternatively score information may comprise any one or more aspects of a composite score including but not limited to an audience voice engagement and or reach associated with the respective asset. Score information may also comprise influence or impact assessment information.

In another aspect in addition to presenting rank information and score information the GUI may also comprise a graph reflecting assessment information for a corresponding asset over time. The assessment information represented within the graph may be any suitable assessment information including but not limited to a composite percentile score a composite T score a composite share assessment score audience assessment information voice assessment information engagement assessment information reach assessment information influence assessment information and or impact assessment information. In one embodiment as was the case with the GUI described with respect to a time within graph may be selected by the user in order to present a snapshot of assessment information at that time. Moreover the time frame represented in graph may be shortened or lengthened using a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment selection of filter may bring up one or more selectable time frames over which to display data at graph . For example filter may comprise an hour time frame a day time frame a week time frame a month time frame a year time frame and or an all time time frame. It should be noted however that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any suitable time frame may be included in filter .

It may be appreciated that using a GUI such as the GUI depicted in not only may a user view social media performance data associated with asset but the user may also gain an understanding of which associated assets within a peer group or hierarchical structure are bolstering or hindering the social media performance of asset . Moreover a user may understand whether each such associated asset s performance is trending upward or downward. In one embodiment an associated asset s score information may comprise a plurality of score types and each may be based on a unique time frame. For example score information may comprise both a composite percentile score and a composite share assessment score. In particular the composite percentile score may take into consideration social media data collected over a longer time period than the data upon which the share assessment score is based. In this manner the user may be presented with one score e.g. a composite percentile score reflective of an asset s social media performance established over a relatively long time period and a second score e.g. a share assessment score reflective of more recent social media performance. Viewing the two scores simultaneously may facilitate a determination as to the direction in which the asset s social media performance may be trending. The same multi time frame scoring assessments may also be displayed with respect to asset . Of course these examples of the types of information that may be interpreted from viewing the GUI of are only illustrative and a user may derive many other insights from the GUI.

In another aspect the GUI depicted in may further comprise a list of social media content items . In one embodiment the content items may be content items published to one or more social media platforms by asset . In an alternative embodiment the content items may be content items published by any one or more of associated assets . In other embodiments the content items may be content items published by any or more of a combination of asset and associated assets 

Among other things the list of content items may present information comprising 1 information identifying the asset that published the respective content 2 information identifying the social media platform at which the content was published 3 the published content or a portion thereof and 4 the time and or date on which the content was published or some indication as to how long ago the content was published . Of course these examples only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may also be presented within the list of content items .

In a further aspect and like content list described with respect to content list may comprise a plurality of selectable lists selectable using for example tabs at the top of content list . In one embodiment content list may comprise for example a live stream list a top content list and or a trending content list. In one embodiment these lists may be substantially similar to those described above with respect to content list . In alternative embodiments these lists may incorporate additional fewer or alternative features as compared to the corresponding lists described above with respect to content list .

Rank information identifying a rank associated with asset within a peer group may also be presented at assessment information . As discussed above any such rank information may be based at least in part on any performance assessment information including but not limited to a composite score. Such a composite score may be based at least in part on any one or more of a percentile score a T score or a share assessment score.

In another aspect assessment information and may reflect social media platform specific information such as but not limited to one or more of a composite share score a composite T score and or a composite percentile score with respect to a specific social media platform. Selection or identification of asset may be performed among other ways using a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment selection of an asset filter such as may present a list of one or more assets within a common tier of a peer group. An asset to be featured within the GUI may then be selected from filter .

In a further aspect the GUI may also comprise an assessment graph reflecting assessment information associated with asset over time. The assessment information represented within the graph may be any suitable assessment information including but not limited to a composite percentile score a composite T score a composite share assessment score audience assessment information voice assessment information engagement assessment information reach assessment information influence assessment information and or impact assessment information. In the embodiment depicted in social media platform specific assessment information may be represented at graph such that a user may determine how asset is performing on each social media platform with respect to the others.

In a further embodiment as was the case with the GUI described with respect to a particular time within graph may be selected by the user in order to present a snapshot of assessment information at that time. Moreover the time frame represented in graph may be shortened or lengthened using a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment selection of filter may bring up one or more selectable time frames over which to display data at graph . For example filter may comprise an hour time frame a day time frame a week time frame a month time frame a year time frame and or an all time time frame. It should be noted however that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any suitable time frame may be included in filter .

In one aspect the GUI may further comprise asset specific content lists including but not limited to a live stream list a top content list and a trending content list . In one embodiment asset specific live stream list may comprise a list of content items published by the asset the content items appearing on the list as they are published over one or more social media platforms. Such a list may be updated in real time as content items publish or as new content items are retrieved from the one or more social media servers at predetermined intervals. In a further embodiment the newest or most recently published content items may appear at the top of the list while older content items may move progressively further down the list as new content items appear. Each content item within the live stream list may also comprise additional details regarding the content item including but not limited to an indication of when the content item was published all or a portion of the content and or a link to additional information associated with the content item.

Asset specific top content list may among other things rank content items published by asset based on one or more criteria. For instance content items retrieved from the one or more social media servers may be ranked according to any one or more of their respective audience voice engagement reach influence or impact. As an example content items at the top of the list may reflect those content items published by asset associated with the highest engagement as described above . As additional data may be retrieved from the one or more social media platforms whether in real time or otherwise engagement information or other criteria used may be updated with respect to each content item and the asset specific top content list may be updated accordingly. Each content item within the asset specific top content list may also comprise additional details regarding the content item including but not limited to an indication of when the content item was initially published all or a portion of the content and or a link to additional information associated with the content item.

Similarly asset specific trending content list may among other things rank content items published by asset based on one or more criteria. In one embodiment content items presented in the trending content list may be ranked based at least in part on the velocity associated with each content item. Systems and methods for determining a velocity associated with a content item are presented in more detail above. Content items at the top of the trending content list may represent those content items published by asset that may be associated with the highest velocity while the content items lower on the list may be associated with progressively lower velocity. As additional data may be retrieved from the one or more social media platforms whether in real time or otherwise the velocity associated with each content item published by asset may be updated and the trending content list may be updated accordingly.

In another aspect the GUI depicted in may further comprise a list of social media content items . In one embodiment the content items may be content items published to one or more social media platforms by asset as well as other entities within asset s peer group. Thus while lists and may reflect content items and social media activity specific to asset content list may reflect content items and social media activity within the asset s peer group.

Among other things the list of content items may present information comprising 1 information identifying the asset that published the respective content 2 information identifying the social media platform at which the content was published 3 the published content or a portion thereof and 4 the time and or date on which the content was published or some indication as to how long ago the content was published . Of course these examples only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may also be presented within content list .

In a further aspect and like the content lists described above with respect to content list may comprise a plurality of selectable lists selectable using for example tabs at the top of content list . In one embodiment content list may comprise for example a live stream list a top content list and or a trending content list. In one embodiment these lists may be substantially similar to those described above with respect to content lists and . In alternative embodiments these lists may incorporate additional fewer or alternative features as compared to the corresponding lists described above with respect to content lists and .

In one aspect performance assessment information may accompany each asset within peer group . In one embodiment the performance assessment information may comprise performance assessment information and performance assessment graphs and . Assessment information may represent among other things one or more composite scores associated with each corresponding asset including but not limited to a composite share score a composite T score and or a composite percentile score. Additionally or alternatively assessment information may comprise any one or more aspects of a composite score including but not limited to an audience voice engagement and or reach associated with asset . Assessment information may also comprise influence or impact assessment information.

Rank information identifying a rank associated with each asset within peer group may also be presented at assessment information . As discussed above any such rank information may be based at least in part on any performance assessment information including but not limited to a composite score. In further embodiments such a composite score may be based at least in part on any one or more of a percentile score a T score or a share assessment score.

In another aspect the GUI may also comprise assessment graphs and reflecting performance assessment information associated with each of assets over time. In one embodiment the assessment information represented within graph for each asset may be any suitable assessment information including but not limited to a composite percentile score a composite T score a composite share assessment score audience assessment information voice assessment information engagement assessment information reach assessment information influence assessment information and or impact assessment information associated with each asset. In particular the type of assessment information presented in graph may be selected by a user using for example a drop down menu or filter .

In one embodiment graph may comprise a line graph depicting performance assessment information. In particular performance assessment information within graph may be represented by a plurality of lines each line corresponding to performance assessment information for one of the assets . In one embodiment each of the plurality of lines is color coded to a corresponding indicator associated with each of the assets . Of course other graphs charts or graphical representations of performance assessment information pertaining to assets may also be presented and graph is only illustrative of one possibility.

More detailed information regarding performance assessment information at a selected time may also be depicted at graph . For example a user may select a point in time at which to view a snapshot of performance assessment information associated with one or more assets . Performance assessment information may comprise any type of assessment information corresponding to time including but not limited to composite information share information comparative score information and or any aspect thereof.

In the embodiment depicted at assessment information may comprise asset specific information i.e. assessment information specific to one of the assets within peer group as shown assessment information may depict assessment information associated with a CBS Channel television station . Assessment information may comprise any additional or suitable assessment information including but not limited to a composite percentile score a composite T score a composite share assessment score audience assessment information voice assessment information engagement assessment information reach assessment information influence assessment information and or impact assessment information. Assessment information may further include content items associated with an asset at time . The content items may comprise among other things 1 information identifying an asset that published the respective content 2 information identifying the social media platform at which the content was published 3 the published content or a portion thereof 4 the time and or date on which the content was published or an amount of time that may have lapsed since the content was published and or 5 a link for accessing additional information associated with each content item. Of course these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any other useful or desirable data may be presented within the content items.

In another aspect the GUI may comprise graph . In one embodiment graph may convey any previously described assessment information associated with any one or more of assets including but not limited to a composite percentile score a composite T score a composite share assessment score audience assessment information voice assessment information engagement assessment information reach assessment information influence assessment information and or impact assessment information associated with each asset. In particular like the information presented in graph the type of assessment information presented in graph may be selected by a user using for example a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment the type of information presented in graph may be specified independent of the type of information presented in graph . In an alternative embodiment specifying a particular type of information for presentation in one of graphs and may automatically determine the type of information to be presented in the other graph.

As shown in graph may also comprise a graph depicting the volume of some aspect of social media activity associated with assets . The aspect depicted may be any suitable aspect described previously herein including but not limited to an audience voice engagement or reach associated with each of assets .

Moreover where a user has selected a time overlaying both graphs and more detailed information regarding the depicted performance assessment information within graph at time may be displayed. For example detailed information may present a snapshot of the volume for some aspect of social media activity associated with assets at time .

In a further aspect a time frame represented in graphs and may be shortened or lengthened using a drop down menu or filter . In one embodiment selection of filter may bring up one or more selectable time frames over which to display data at graphs and . For example filter may comprise an hour time frame a day time frame a week time frame a month time frame a year time frame and or an all time time frame. It should be noted however that these examples are only illustrative of the possibilities and any suitable time frame may be included in filter .

Additional features may also be incorporated into the described systems and methods to improve their functionality. For example systems and or methods may be devised for allowing a user to input rules for identifying both good social media performance and poor social media performance. Such rules may be based on any one or more of the social media performance assessment information scoring or ranking described herein. In one embodiment excellent social media performance may trigger a congratulatory alert to the one or more assets associated with the social media performance. Alternatively poor social media performance may trigger an alter to the one or more assets associated with the social media performance informing those assets as to the performance assessment s and or recommending steps that may be taken to improve future performance.

The systems and method described herein may also be used to survey the social media performance of a plurality of assets across an industry. Such a survey may then be used to benchmark an asset s social media performance against that of the industry and or develop best practices for improving social media performance.

Other embodiments of the aforementioned systems and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of this disclosure. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as illustrative only with the true scope and spirit of the disclosure being indicated by the following claims.

