---

title: Device, method, and system for secure mobile data storage
abstract: A device, method, and system for secure mobile data storage includes a mobile data storage device having a short-range communication circuit, a long-range communication circuit, and a data storage for storing data. The mobile data storage device is used to store data used by a paired mobile communication device. The mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device communicate control signals over a wireless control link established using the short-range communication circuit and data over a wireless data link, different from the wireless control link, established using the long-range communication circuit. The mobile data storage device and/or mobile communication device may monitor a distance between the devices and perform a security function in response the devices being separated from each other. The mobile data storage device may backup data on a remote data server and/or repopulate data from the remote data server using the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390293&OS=09390293&RS=09390293
owner: Monolith Innovations LLC
number: 09390293
owner_city: Greenwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140909
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 780 144 entitled DEVICE METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SECURE MOBILE DATA STORAGE which was filed on Feb. 28 2013 and which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 404 904 entitled DEVICE METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SECURE MOBILE DATA STORAGE which was filed on Feb. 24 2012 the entirety of both of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to mobile data storage devices and more particularly to mobile data storage devices for secure storage of data used by other mobile devices.

Mobile communication devices such as smart phones and other mobile computing devices are becoming ubiquitous companions for users. Such devices are used for various purposes including communicating with other people storing entertainment media such as music pictures and video storing and maintaining contact information managing personal calendars and meetings and the like. As such typical mobile communication devices and other portable computing devices often store large amounts of data some of which may be personal and confidential e.g. banking information . Unfortunately the loss of the mobile communication device can result in the permanent loss of the stored data as well as compromise of the security of the data. Although many mobile communication computing device include some form of password protection the typical protection scheme is relatively trivial that may be overcome by a brute force method e.g. protection schemes having a four digit password .

The management and protection of personal data is further complicated by the use of multiple mobile communication computing device. That is many people own and use multiple mobile communication computing devices such as a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile internet device a personal digital assistant and more stationary computing devices such as a desktop computer. Each of these communication computing devices may have some personal data stored thereon which may be unique to that particular device such that user s personal data is spread across the multiple devices. As such there is no one device having all of the user s personal data requiring the user to access a particular communication computing device to retrieve particular personal data.

According to one aspect a mobile data storage device may include a first communication circuit a second communication circuit a data storage and a processing circuit. The first communication circuit may establish a wireless control link with a mobile communication device using a short range communication protocol. The second communication circuit may be different from the first communication circuit and may establish a wireless data link with the mobile communication device using a long range communication protocol. The data storage may store data received from the mobile communication device. The processing circuit may be configured to determine whether the mobile communication device is within a reference security range of the mobile data storage device as a function of the wireless control link and perform at least one security function on the mobile data storage device in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range.

In some embodiments the short range communication circuit has a bandwidth that is substantially lower than a bandwidth of the long range communication circuit. Additionally in some embodiments the short range communication circuit may be embodied as a Bluetooth communication circuit and or the long rage communication circuit may be embodied as a Wi Fi communication circuit.

Additionally in some embodiments the processing circuit may determine whether the mobile communication device is within a reference security communication range with the mobile data storage device by determining a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link. In such embodiments the processing circuit may perform at least one security function in response to the RSSI measurement being less than a reference threshold value. Additionally or alternatively the processing circuit may determine whether the mobile communication device is within the reference security communication range with the mobile data storage device by determining a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device and perform at least one security function in response to the distance being greater than a reference distance. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include a Global Positioning System GPS circuit. In such embodiments the processing circuit may determine the distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device by determining a current location of the mobile data storage device as a function of an output of the global positioning system GPS circuit.

In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may further include an alarm. In such embodiments the processing circuit may be configured to activate the alarm in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range. The alarm may be embodied as for example an audible alarm a visual alarm and or a tactile alarm. In some embodiments the processing circuit may disconnect the wireless data link in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range. Additionally in some embodiments the processing circuit may be configured to encrypt unencrypted data stored in the data storage in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range.

Additionally in some embodiments the processing circuit may retrieve data from the data storage in response to receiving a data request from the mobile communication device and transmit the retrieved data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link. For example in some embodiments the processing circuit may retrieve encrypted data from the data storage in response to receiving a data request from the mobile communication device decrypt the encrypted data using a cryptographic key stored on the mobile data storage device and transmit the decrypted data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link.

In some embodiments the processing circuit may be configured to receive data from the mobile communication device over the wireless data link and store the received data in the data storage. Additionally in some embodiments the processing circuit may encrypt the received data prior to storing the encrypted data. Further in some embodiments the processing circuit may transfer data over the wireless data link to the mobile communication device and communicate control signals over the wireless control link to the mobile communication device contemporaneously with the transfer to the data.

In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include a power source and a power management circuit coupled to the power source. In such embodiments the power management circuit may be configured to determine a power level of the power source and adjust a power setting of the mobile data storage device as a function of the power level of the power source. For example in some embodiments the power management circuit may adjust an output power of the long range communication circuit as a function of the power level of the power source. Additionally or alternatively the power management circuit may be configured to transmit an alert to the mobile communication device over the wireless control link in response to the power level of the power source being less than a reference threshold level.

Additionally in some embodiments the processing circuit may be configured to determine a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device. In such embodiments the power management circuit may adjust an output power of the long range communication circuit as a function of determined distance. Further in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include a Global Positioning System GPS circuit to determine a current location of the mobile data storage device. In such embodiments the processing circuit may adjust the reference security communication range as a function of the current location of the mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively the power management circuit may adjust an output power of the long range communication circuit as a function of the determined current location of the mobile data storage device. Further in some embodiments the processing circuit may detect the loss of the wireless data link and transmit an alert to the mobile communication device across the wireless control link in response to detecting the loss of the wireless data link.

According to another aspect a method for secure mobile data storage may include establishing on a mobile data storage device a wireless control link with a mobile communication device using a short range communication protocol the wireless control link to communicate control signals with the mobile communication device. The method may also include establishing on the mobile data storage device a wireless data link with the mobile communication device using a long range communication protocol the wireless data link to transfer data with the mobile communication device. Additionally the method may include determining whether the mobile communication device is within a reference security communication range with the mobile data storage device as a function of the wireless control link and performing at least one security function in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range.

In some embodiments establishing the wireless control link may include pairing the mobile data storage device with the mobile communication device. For example pairing the mobile data storage device with the mobile communication device may include establishing a 1 1 pairing relationship between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device. Additionally in some embodiments establishing the wireless control link may include establishing a Bluetooth communication link with the mobile communication device and establishing the wireless data link may include establishing a Wi Fi communication link with the mobile communication device.

Additionally in some embodiments determining whether the mobile communication device is within a reference security communication range with the mobile data storage device may include determining a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link and performing the at least one security function may include performing at least one security function in response to the RSSI measurement being less than a reference threshold value. Additionally or alternatively determining whether the mobile communication device is within a reference security communication range with the mobile data storage device may include determining a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device and performing the at least one security function may include performing at least one security function in response to the distance being greater than a reference distance. For example determining a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device may include determining a current location of the mobile data storage device using a global positioning system GPS circuit of the mobile data storage device.

In some embodiments performing the at least one security function may include generating an alert in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range. For example the method may include generating at least one of an audible alert a visual alert and a tactile alert on the mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively performing at least one security function may include disabling the wireless data link and or encrypting unencrypted data stored on the mobile data storage device.

The method may further include receiving a data request from the mobile communication device retrieving data from a data storage of the mobile data storage device as a function of the data request and transmitting the data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link. In such embodiments retrieving data from a data storage of the mobile data storage device may include retrieving encrypted data and the method may further include decrypting the encrypted data on the mobile data storage device using a cryptographic key stored on the mobile data storage device and transmitting the decrypted data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link. In some embodiments the method may further include receiving on the mobile data storage device data from the mobile communication device over the wireless data link and storing the data in a data storage of the mobile data storage device. For example receiving data from the mobile communication device may include receiving un encrypted data from the mobile communication device over the wireless data link. In such embodiments the method may further include encrypting on the mobile data storage device the un encrypted data received from the mobile communication device using a cryptographic key stored on the mobile data storage device and storing the encrypted data in a data storage of the mobile data storage device.

Additionally in some embodiments the method may further include transferring data over the wireless data link and communicating control signals over the wireless control link contemporaneously with the transfer to the data. Additionally or alternatively the method may include determining a power level of a power source of the mobile data storage device and adjusting a power setting of the mobile data storage device based on the power level of the power source. For example adjusting the power setting may include adjusting an output power of a long range communication circuit of the mobile data storage device used to establish the wireless data link using the long range communication protocol. Further in some embodiments the method may include transmitting an alert to the mobile communication device over the wireless control link in response to the power level of the power source being less than a reference threshold level.

The method may also include determining a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device and adjusting an output power of a long range communication circuit of the mobile communication device used to establish the wireless data link using the long range communication protocol as a function of the determined distance. Additionally or alternatively the method may further include determining a current location of the mobile data storage device using a global positioning system GPS circuit of the mobile data storage device. In such embodiments the method may include adjusting the reference security communication range as a function of the current location of the mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively the method may include adjusting an output power of a long range communication circuit of the mobile communication device used to establish the wireless data link using the long range communication protocol as a function of the determined current location of the mobile data storage device. The method may also include detecting the loss of the wireless data link between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device and transmitting an alert to the mobile communication device across the wireless control link in response to detecting the loss of the wireless data link.

Yet further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be embodied as a first mobile communication device and the wireless data link may be embodied as a first wireless data link. In such embodiments the method may further include establishing a second wireless data link between the first mobile communication device and a second mobile communication device. Additionally the method may include retrieving data from a data storage on the mobile data storage device and transmitting the data from the mobile data storage device to the second mobile communication device over the first and second wireless data links.

Additionally in some embodiments the wireless data link may include a first wireless data link and the method may further comprise establishing a second wireless data link between the mobile communication device and data server over a network. In such embodiments the method may further include transmitting data from the mobile data storage device to the data server over the first and second wireless data link. Additionally or alternatively the method may include receiving with the mobile data storage device data from the data server over the first and second wireless data link.

According to yet a further aspect a system for secure mobile data storage may include a mobile communication device and a mobile data storage device to communicate with the mobile data storage device. The mobile communication device may include a first short range communication circuit and a first long range communication circuit. The mobile data storage device may include a data storage a second short range communication circuit communicatively coupled to the first short range communication circuit via a wireless control link using a short range communication protocol and a second long range communication circuit communicatively coupled to the first long range communication circuit via a wireless data link using a long range communication protocol. The mobile communication device may be configured to transmit control signals to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link using the first short range communication circuit and transmit data over the wireless data link using the first long range communication circuit. The mobile data storage device may be configured to receive the data over the wireless data link using the second short range communication circuit and store the data in the data storage in response to receiving corresponding control signals over the wireless control link using the second long range communication circuit.

In some embodiments the wireless control link may be embodied as a Bluetooth communication link and the wireless data link may be embodied as a Wi Fi communication link. Additionally the mobile communication device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device is within a reference security range of the mobile communication device as a function of the wireless control link and perform at least one security function on the mobile communication device in response to the mobile communication device being out of the reference security communication range. For example the mobile communication device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device is within the reference security communication range with the mobile communication device by determining a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link. In such embodiments the mobile communication device may perform at least one security function in response to the RSSI measurement being less than a reference threshold value. Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may further include a global positioning system GPS circuit. In such embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device is within the reference security communication range with the mobile communication device by determining a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device using the GPS circuit and perform at least one security function in response to the distance being greater than a reference distance value. For example the mobile communication device may be configured to determine a current location of the mobile communication device and adjust the reference security communication range as a function of the current location.

Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device is within a reference security range of the mobile communication device as a function of the wireless control link and generate an alert in response to the mobile data storage device being out of the reference security communication range. For example the mobile communication device may generate an alert on the mobile communication device by generating at least one of an audible alert a visual alert and a tactile alert on the mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may determine whether the mobile data storage device is within a reference security range of the mobile communication device as a function of the wireless control link and disconnect the wireless data link in response to the mobile data storage device being out of the reference security communication range.

Further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may include a data management module to receive a request for data from an application executed on the mobile communication device send a control signal to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link to request the data and receive the requested data from the mobile data storage device over the wireless data link. Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may be configured to encrypt the data prior to transmitting the data to the mobile data storage device over the wireless data link. Further the mobile communication device may be configured to receive a signal from the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link indicative of a power level of a power source of the mobile data storage device and disable data retrieval from the mobile data storage device in response to the power level of the power source of the mobile data storage device being less than a reference power level.

Yet further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to receive a signal from the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link indicative of a power level of a power source of the mobile data storage device and transmit a control signal to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link to adjust a power setting of the mobile data storage device in response to the power level of the power source of the mobile data storage device being less than a reference power level. For example the power setting may include an output power of the long range communication circuit of the mobile data storage device used to establish the wireless data link using the long range communication protocol.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be embodied as a first mobile communication device and the wireless data link may be embodied as a first wireless data link. In such embodiments the system may further include a second mobile communication device having a third long range communication circuit communicatively coupled with the first long range communication circuit of the first mobile communication device via a second wireless data link. The first mobile communication device may be configured to transfer data from the mobile data storage device to the second mobile communication device using the first wireless data link and the second wireless data link. Additionally or alternatively the first mobile communication device may be configured to receive a request for data from the second mobile communication device transmit a control signal to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link to request the data from the mobile data storage device receive the requested data from the mobile data storage device over the first wireless data link and transmit the requested data to the second mobile communication device over the second wireless data link.

Additionally in some embodiments the system may further include a remote data server. In such embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to copy data from the mobile data storage device to the remote data server. Additionally the mobile communication device may include a backup module to retrieve data from the mobile data storage device and transmit the data to the remote data server for backup storage. For example the backup module is configured to periodically retrieve the data from the mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively the backup module may be configured to retrieve the data from the mobile data storage device in response to a selection of a command by a user of the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to retrieve data from the remote data server and transmit the data to the mobile data storage device for storage thereon. For example the mobile communication device may be configured to retrieve the data from the remote data server in response to detecting that the mobile data storage device is a new mobile data storage device. Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may be configured to retrieve the data from the remote data server in response to a selection of a command by a user of the mobile communication device.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages.

Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. Also for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Herein alphanumeric characters and or mathematical symbols or a combination thereof may be used to represent data values variables coefficients functions equations or portions thereof. It should be understood that once defined a character or symbol may be repeated throughout the disclosure and that unless otherwise stated such repeated instances of a character or symbol refer to the same character or symbol as initially defined.

Referring now to a system for secure mobile data storage includes a mobile data storage device and a mobile communication device . As discussed in more detail below in operation the mobile data storage device stores data used or otherwise accessible by various data based applications executed on the mobile communication device . Such data storage on the mobile data storage device may be in the form of a backup of data located on the mobile communication device or may be embodied as live data that is actively accessed during the use of the various applications programs and or functions of the mobile communication device . For example the mobile data storage device may store media data such as pictures video and music data contact data such as e mail and telephone number contact information financial data such as banking information preferences security information and any other data or information accessible on the mobile communication device such as documents presentations spreadsheets and or the like. In some embodiments as discussed below such data may be stored in an encrypted state on the mobile data storage device .

The mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device communicate with each other over various communication links. For example the mobile communication device may transmit control signals to control the storage access and other functionality of the mobile data storage device over a wireless control link which is illustratively embodied as a short range low bandwidth communication link such as a Bluetooth communication link. Although the control signals are transferred using the wireless control link all data transferred between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device is done so using a wireless data link which is illustratively embodied as a long range relatively high bandwidth communication link such as a Wi Fi communication link. It should be appreciated that because the high bandwidth wireless data link is used to transfer data between the devices the bandwidth of the wireless control link remains relatively low such that the transfer of the data between the devices can be performed in a quicker and more efficient manner. Of course although the short range communication link is described herein as a Bluetooth communication link and the long range communication link is described herein as a Wi Fi communication link other short range and long rang communication links and or protocols may be used in other embodiments to establish separate control and data links between the devices .

In addition to the data storage the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device may provide additional security functionality. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device may perform one or more security functions in response to the devices being separated from each other. Such security functions may include for example disabling the data link encrypting unencrypted data and generating various alarms.

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to use additional or alternative data communication links to transfer data to and from the mobile communication device . For example when a local network such as a local area network LAN home network Wi Fi hotspot or the like is available the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device may transfer data between each other using the network via wireless data links which may be embodied as long range relatively high bandwidth communication links such as a Wi Fi communication links. The mobile data storage device may select to utilize the wireless data links instead of or in addition to the wireless data link based on one or more criteria such as whether the local network is available the current data rate achieved over the wireless data link and or the like. Although the local network and the corresponding wireless data links may be used for the transmission of data instead of or in addition to the wireless data link it should be appreciated that all control signals continue to be transmitted between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device using the wireless control link as shown in .

Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to serve as an intermediary between the mobile data storage device and a secondary mobile communication device . That is data stored on the mobile data storage device may be shared with additional mobile communication devices in some embodiments. However it should be appreciated that while facilitating such sharing of data the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device maintain a 1 1 pairing relationship. That is the secondary mobile communication device is unable to directly access any data storage on the mobile data storage device as the mobile data storage device is configured to communicate only with the paired mobile communication device as discussed in more detail below. As such the mobile communication device may act as a data server in some embodiments to retrieve data from the mobile data storage device and transmit e.g. share the data to the secondary mobile communication device via a direct second wireless data link or via the local network and corresponding wireless data links . Each of the wireless data links may be embodied as a high bandwidth communication links such as Wi Fi communication links or other high bandwidth communication links.

Of course the mobile communication device may also perform security functions to protect the data stored on the mobile data storage device and as such may deny certain data requests received from the secondary mobile communication device . In this way data stored on the mobile data storage device such as pictures video and music media may be shared with the secondary mobile communication device in a secure manner.

Referring now to in some embodiments the network may be embodied as a non local network. For example the network may be embodied as any number of various wired and or wireless data and or voice communication networks. For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a wide area network WAN or a publicly accessible global network such as the Internet. In such embodiments the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device may be configured to communicate data between each other over the network using the wireless data links as discussed above. Additionally in embodiments in which the mobile communication device is configured to serve as an intermediary between the mobile data storage device and the secondary mobile communication device data stored on the mobile data storage device may be shared with or otherwise accessed by the secondary mobile communication device over the wide area global network via the data links as discussed above.

In the illustrative embodiment of the system also includes a remote cloud data server . The data server may be used as a cloud based backup for data stored on the mobile data storage device . To do so the mobile communication device may communicate with the cloud data server over the network via the data link and a data link . The mobile data storage device may periodically or responsively store the data on the cloud data server via the mobile communication device . For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to perform a backup of local data to the cloud data server on a routine or periodic basis.

Additionally or alternatively the mobile data storage device may store or backup the local data in response to a user s selection of a backup command on the mobile communication device in response to a change in the stored local data in response to the creation or storage of particular type of data in response to the amount of stored local data achieving a reference threshold and or in response to other criteria. Additionally it should be appreciated that the mobile data storage device may store or backup different types of local data to the cloud data server according to different schedules. For example particularly important data e.g. banking information or data used often e.g. contacts may be backed up at a greater frequency than other data e.g. media data such as music media .

The cloud data server may also be used to repopulate a new mobile data storage device with data. For example should a user lose the mobile data storage device the user may obtain a new mobile data storage device and repopulate the new mobile data storage device by accessing the data stored on the cloud data server . Of course it should be appreciated that although the lost mobile data storage device includes a full copy of the local data such data is encrypted in the illustrative embodiments such that the security of the data is maintained even in the event the mobile data storage device is lost.

Referring now to the mobile data storage device may be embodied as any type of mobile data storage device capable of performing the functions described herein. In the illustrative embodiment the mobile data storage device is sized for carrying on a person such as in a pocket of the clothing of the person. For example the mobile data storage device has a form factor substantially similar to a standard credit card in some embodiments. To ensure the physical security of the mobile data storage device the mobile data storage device may include no external data port in some embodiments. Further in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include no power ports either. In such embodiments the mobile data storage device may be charged via induction or thermoelectrically as discussed below. Additionally it should be appreciated that the mobile data storage device may include additional physical security features in some embodiments such as epoxy potting active physical security circuits configured to destroy the circuits or data of the mobile data storage device in response to sensing a physical intrusion and or other physical intrusion detection and security features.

In the illustrative embodiment of the mobile data storage device includes a processing circuitry a chipset a memory a data storage an alarm communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the mobile data storage device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the mobile data storage device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a data storage device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processing circuitry of the mobile data storage device may be embodied as any type of processing circuitry capable of performing the functions described herein. For example in some embodiments the processing circuitry may be embodied as or otherwise include a special purpose microcontroller or digital signal processor. Alternatively in other embodiments the processing circuitry may be embodied as or otherwise include a general purpose processor capable of executing software firmware. In such embodiments the processing circuitry may be embodied as a single core processor or a multi core processor having multiple processor cores in other embodiments. Additionally the processing circuitry may include any number of processors microcontrollers digital signal processors and or other processing devices in other embodiments.

The chipset of the mobile data storage device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processing circuitry and or other components of the mobile data storage device . In some embodiments the chipset may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. However in other embodiments chipsets having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the chipset may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processing circuitry and the processing circuitry may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the chipset may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processing circuitry and other components of the mobile data storage device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processing circuitry is communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the mobile data storage device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the mobile data storage device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory is illustrated in the mobile data storage device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example in embodiments wherein the processing circuitry is embodied as a processor one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and or drivers may be stored in the memory .

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices depending on for example the form factor of the mobile data storage device . As discussed above the mobile data storage device stores data used by the mobile communication device . In the illustrative embodiment such data is stored on the mobile data storage device in an encrypted state as secured data . As such the data storage may also store cryptographic encryption keys to encrypt and decrypt data received and transmitted to the mobile communication device . Such encryption keys may be embodied as any suitable encryption keys for the secure storage and transfer of data between the devices . For example in one embodiment the encryption keys are embodied as Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA encryption keys but other types of encryption algorithms and associated keys may be used in other embodiments.

The communication circuitry of the mobile data storage device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device . As discussed above the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device establish the wireless control link to transmit control signals between the devices and the wireless data link to transfer data between the devices . As such the mobile data storage device includes a short range low bandwidth communication circuit and a long range high bandwidth communication circuit . The short range low bandwidth communication circuit is used to establish the wireless control link and may be embodied as any type of communication circuit capable of establishing a short range low bandwidth communication link. In the illustrative embodiment as discussed above the short range low bandwidth communication circuit is embodied as a Bluetooth communication circuit configured to establish a Bluetooth communication link with the mobile communication device . For example in one embodiment the short range low bandwidth communication circuit has a maximum effective communication range of about 10 meters but may have longer or shorter communication ranges in other embodiments.

The long range high bandwidth communication circuit is used to establish the wireless data link and may be embodied as any type of communication circuit capable of establishing a long range high bandwidth communication link. In the illustrative embodiment as discussed above the long range high bandwidth communication circuit is embodied as a Wi Fi communication circuit configured to establish a Wi Fi i.e. the IEEE 802.11 standard communication link with the mobile communication device . In the illustrative embodiment the long range high bandwidth communication circuit has an effective communication range of greater than the short range low bandwidth communication circuit e.g. 20 meters or more .

The communication circuitry may include additional communication circuits in some embodiments. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include a cellular communication circuitry to allow the mobile data storage device to communication with other devices e.g. the mobile communication device over a cellular connection. Additionally in some embodiments the communication circuitry may include a global positioning system GPS circuit . In such embodiments the GPS circuit may generate data indicative of a current location of the mobile data storage device . The mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device may be configured to perform certain functions based on the current location of the mobile data storage device as discussed in more detail below.

The peripheral devices of the mobile data storage device may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in one embodiment the peripheral devices may include a display for displaying information to a user of the mobile data storage device and in some embodiments receiving input from a user of the mobile data storage device e.g. the display may be embodied as a touch screen display . In such embodiments the peripheral devices may include a corresponding graphics circuit to control the display . Additionally in other embodiments the mobile data storage device may include other peripheral devices such as buttons switches speakers and or other input output devices. The peripheral devices are communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths thereby allowing the chipset and or processing circuitry to receive inputs from and send outputs to the peripheral devices .

In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include a power management circuitry to monitor and manage a battery or other power source of the mobile data storage device . For example in some embodiments the battery may be embodied as a rechargeable battery or power source. In such embodiments the power management circuitry is configured to manage the recharging of the battery e.g. via inductive charging thermoelectrically or the like . Additionally in some embodiments the power management circuitry is configured to monitor a power level of the battery and perform various power management functions based on the power level of the battery . For example in some embodiments the power management circuitry may disable particular features or circuits of the mobile data storage device and or generate an alarm in response to the power level of the battery dropping below a reference threshold so as to maintain the core functionality of the mobile data storage device until the battery is recharged.

The mobile data storage device may also include an alarm which may be activated to alert a user of the mobile data storage device to various conditions e.g. that the power level of the battery is below the reference threshold . The alarm may be embodied as any type of alarm including for example an audible alarm a visual alarm e.g. display and or a tactile alarm such as a vibration device.

Referring now to in embodiments wherein the processing circuit is embodied as a special purpose circuit such as a microcontroller or digital signal processor the mobile data storage device may establish a software environment during operation. The software environment may include a data management module a communication module a security module and or a power management module . Each of the modules may be embodied as hardware software firmware and or a combination thereof. For example it should be appreciated that in the illustrative embodiment of the processing circuit may not be configured for executing an independent operating system and associated applications. As such in one particular embodiment the modules form a portion of or are otherwise included in the processing circuit or individual circuitry configured to perform the functions described below.

The data management module manages the storage and retrieval of data stored on the mobile data storage device . For example the data management module may respond to requests for data received from the mobile communication device by retrieving data from the data storage . Additionally or alternatively the data management module may receive data from the mobile communication device and store the data in the data storage . In so doing the data management module may perform one or more cryptographic function on the data e.g. the data management module may encrypt data prior to storing the data in the data storage and or decrypt stored data prior to transmitting the data to the mobile communication device . Additionally the data management module may perform various back up functions such as periodically or responsive backing up data to the cloud data server as discussed in more detail below.

The communications module is configured to establish the wireless control link and the wireless data link . Additionally in some embodiments the communications module may monitor the links and respond to loss of one or more of the links . For example the communication module may alert the security module in the event that the wireless control link is lost e.g. the devices are separated .

The security module is configured to monitor the operation of the mobile data storage device and perform particular security functions in response to particular conditions of the mobile data storage device . For example in the illustrative embodiment the security module is configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device are separated from each other by a distance greater than a reference security communication range e.g. one of the devices has been lost . As discussed in more detail below the security module may monitor the proximity of the devices based on the wireless control link e.g. using a Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI algorithm or based on a determined location of the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device . In response to the devices becoming separated by a distance greater than the reference security communication range e.g. 10 meters or in response to other security conditions the security module may perform one or more security functions. Such security functions may include for example generating an alarm on the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device disabling functions and or circuits of the mobile data storage device e.g. disabling the wireless data link encrypting unencrypted data and or performing other security functions.

The power management module monitors and manages the power source e.g. battery of the mobile data storage device . For example the power management module may facilitate the recharging of the battery . Additionally the power management module may adjust particular power settings of the mobile data storage device based on a determined power level of the battery . For example in some embodiments the power management module may disable particular features or circuits of the mobile data storage device and or generate an alarm in response to the power level of the battery dropping below a reference threshold so as to maintain the core functionality of the mobile data storage device until the battery is recharged.

Referring now to in embodiments wherein the processing circuitry is embodied as a general purpose processor the mobile data storage device may establish a software environment . The software environment illustratively includes a data management application module a communications application module a user and device preference module a security application module a power management application module and an operating system . The data management application module the communications application module the security application module and the power management application module may be substantially similar to and perform similar functions as the data management application module the communications application module the security application module and the power management application module described above in regard to .

The user and device preference module provides an interface for a user of the mobile data storage device to set modify and monitor user settings of the mobile data storage device . Such user settings may include for example a security range allowed between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device the periodicity of data backup procedures between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device and or to the cloud data server identification of which data data types and or files to be stored and or backed up to the mobile data storage device and or other user and device preference settings. In some embodiments the user and device preference module may be configured to present a graphical user interface to the user of the mobile communication device to facilitate modifications and management of the preference settings.

It should be appreciated that in the embodiment of each of the modules may be embodied as or otherwise include software applications executed by the operating system . The operating system may be embodied as any type of mobile device operating system capable of executing various software applications. Such applications may be stored on the mobile data storage device at the time of manufacturing or may be downloaded from a secure remote server during use i.e. via use of the mobile communication device .

Referring now to the mobile communication device may be embodied as any type of mobile communicating device such as a smart phone a mobile internet device a computing tablet a laptop a handheld computer a personal digital assistant a telephony device or other mobile computing device. In the illustrative embodiment of the mobile communication device includes a processor a chipset a memory a data storage communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the mobile communication device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the mobile communication device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a computer and or navigation system which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the mobile communication device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a single processor core. However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores. Additionally the mobile communication device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores.

The chipset of the mobile communication device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the mobile communication device . In some embodiments the chipset may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the chipset may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the chipset may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the mobile communication device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the mobile communication device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the mobile communication device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory is illustrated in the mobile communication device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. The mobile communication device may store various software applications and related data in the data storage . Additionally in some embodiments the data storage may include cryptographic keys for performing various cryptographic functions on data transferred between the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device . As discussed above in regard to the mobile data storage device such cryptographic keys may be embodied as any suitable cryptographic keys such as RSA cryptographic keys for the secure storage and transfer of data between the devices .

The communication circuitry of the mobile communication device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device . As discussed above the devices establish the wireless control link to transmit control signals between the devices and the wireless data link to transfer data between the devices . As such the mobile communication device includes a short range low bandwidth communication circuit and a long range high bandwidth communication circuit . The short range low bandwidth communication circuit is used to establish the wireless control link with the mobile data storage device and may be substantially similar to the short range low bandwidth communication circuit of the mobile data storage device . In the illustrative embodiment the short range low bandwidth communication circuit is embodied as a Bluetooth communication circuit configured to establish a Bluetooth communication link with the mobile data storage device .

The long range high bandwidth communication circuit is used to establish the wireless data link and may be substantially similar to the long range high bandwidth communication circuit of the mobile data storage device . In the illustrative embodiment the long range high bandwidth communication circuit is embodied as a Wi Fi communication circuit configured to establish a Wi Fi i.e. the IEEE 802.11 standard communication link with the mobile data storage device .

The communication circuitry may also include a cellular communication circuitry to allow the mobile communication device to communicate with other devices e.g. the additional mobile communication device over a cellular connection. Additionally in some embodiments the communication circuitry may include a global positioning system GPS circuit similar to the GPS circuit described above in regard to the mobile data storage device . In such embodiments the GPS circuit may generate data indicative of a current location of the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may be configured to perform certain functions based on the current location of the mobile communication device as discussed in more detail below.

The peripheral devices of the mobile communication device may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in one embodiment the peripheral devices may include a display and corresponding graphics circuitry for displaying information to a user of the mobile communication device . Of course the peripheral devices may include additional devices and structures for generating an output to a user of the device and or receiving an input or selection from the user. For example in some embodiments the peripheral devices may include additional buttons switches speakers and or other input output devices. The peripheral devices are communicatively coupled to the chipset via a number of signal paths thereby allowing the chipset and or processing circuitry to receive inputs from and send outputs to the peripheral devices .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device may include a power management circuitry to monitor and manage a battery or other power source of the mobile communication device . For example the power management circuitry is configured to monitor a power level of the battery and perform various power management functions based on the power level of the battery . In some embodiments the power management circuitry may disable particular features or circuits of the mobile communication device and or the mobile data storage device in response to the power level of the battery dropping below a reference threshold.

Referring now to in use the mobile communication device may establish a software environment . The illustrative software environment includes a data management application module a communication application module a security application module a power management application module an operating system and one or more data based applications that may be executed by the operating system as discussed below. Each of the modules and may be embodied as hardware software firmware and or a combination thereof. For example in some embodiments the modules and may be embodied as software applications executed by the operating system and associated circuitry. The operating system may be embodied as any type of mobile device operating system capable of executing various software applications. Such applications may be stored on the mobile communication device in for example the data storage .

The data application management module manages the storage and retrieval of data stored on the mobile data storage device . For example should the mobile communication device require data from the mobile data storage device the data management module is configured to communicate a data request to the mobile data storage device via the wireless control link . In response the data management module receives the requested data via the wireless data link from the mobile data storage device . Similarly should the mobile communication device need to store data on the mobile data storage device the data management module may communication a data storage request to the mobile data storage device via the wireless control link and transmit the data to be stored to the mobile data storage device via the wireless data link . As discussed above the transfer of data from the mobile communication device to the mobile data storage device may be performed periodically e.g. as a data backup request or responsively. For example in some embodiments the data management module is configured to respond to a request for data from one or more of the data based applications by communicating with the mobile data storage device to retrieve and or store data used by the data based applications . In this way the data management module may act as an intermediary between the data based applications and the data stored on the mobile data storage device such that the data used by the data based applications may be stored remotely from the mobile communication device but used during runtime of the data based applications e.g. the data management module facilitates the data based applications to use the data stored on the mobile data storage device as live data .

The communications application module is configured to establish the wireless control link and the wireless data link with the mobile data storage device . Additionally in some embodiments the communications module may monitor the links and respond to loss of one or more of the links . For example the communication module may alert the security module in the event that the wireless control link is lost e.g. the devices are separated .

The security application module is configured to monitor the operation of the mobile data storage device and perform particular security functions in response to particular conditions of the mobile data storage device . For example in the illustrative embodiment the security module is configured to determine whether the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device are separated from each other by a distance greater than a reference security communication range e.g. one of the devices has been lost . To do so as discussed in more detail below the security module may monitor the proximity of the devices based on the wireless control link e.g. using a Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI algorithm or based on a determined location of the mobile communication device and or the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device . In response to the devices becoming separated by a distance greater than the reference security communication range e.g. 10 meters or in response to other security conditions the security module may perform one or more security functions on the mobile communication device . Such security functions may include for example generating an alarm on the mobile communication device transmitting alerts or instructions to the mobile data storage device disabling functions and or circuits of the mobile communication device e.g. disabling the wireless data link encrypting unencrypted data and or performing other security functions.

The power management application module monitors and manages the power source e.g. battery of the mobile communication device . For example the power management module may adjust particular power settings of the mobile communication device based on a determined power level of the battery . In some embodiments the power management module may disable or adjust particular features or circuits of the mobile communication device adjust particular power settings of the mobile data storage device and or generate an alarm in response to the power level of the battery dropping below a reference threshold.

The data based applications may be embodied as any type of software application executed by the operating system that accesses or uses data which may be stored on the mobile data storage device . In the illustrative embodiment the data based applications include a file management application a contacts application such as an e mail application a personal media application such as a picture view or music player and a calendar application . Of course the data based applications may include additional or other applications in other embodiments. Each of the data based applications use generate or otherwise access data that may be stored locally on the mobile communication device and subsequently backed up to the mobile data storage device or stored remotely on the mobile data storage device and retrieved by the data management module as needed by the data based application . In either case the data based application may function and operate as normal by interacting with such data as if the data was stored locally. As such the data based applications may be substantially similar to typical data based applications executed of typical mobile communication devices such as smart phones.

Referring now to in operation the mobile data storage device may execute a method for establishing communications with the mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether a pairing request has been received from the mobile communication device . As discussed above the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device are paired with each other in a 1 1 relationship during use such that the mobile data storage device is configured to communicate only with a single mobile communication device . Such pairing process is typically required only once during the initial set up procedure of the mobile data storage device but may be repeated upon loss of pairing e.g. should the battery of the mobile data storage device lose power for an extended period of time .

If a pairing request is received from the mobile communication device the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device attempts to pair with the mobile communication device using the wireless control link . In the illustrative embodiment the devices may utilize a Bluetooth pairing procedure to establish the wireless control link . However in other embodiments the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device may use any suitable pairing procedure to establish the wireless control link which may include for example a handshake procedure between the devices .

In block the mobile data storage device determines whether the pairing procedure was successful. If not the method loops back to block wherein the pairing procedure may be attempted again. However if the pairing procedure was successful the method advances to block wherein the mobile data storage device determines whether to establish the long range wireless data link . For example in some embodiments a user may instruct the mobile data storage device to establish the wireless data link using the mobile communication device and the wireless control link . If so the wireless data link is established between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device in block . As discussed above the wireless data link may be embodied as any type of long range high bandwidth data communication link. In the illustrative embodiment the mobile data storage device is configured to establish a Wi Fi communication data link with the mobile communication device in block .

In block the mobile data storage device determines whether the wireless data link has been successfully established. If not the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device is configured to transmit an error or alert to the mobile communication device to inform a user of the device that an error has occurred with regard to the wireless data link.

If however the wireless data link was successfully established the method advances to block in which the master passphrase is passed from the mobile communication device to the mobile data storage device . The mobile data storage device subsequently securely stores the master passphrase in the data storage . After the master passphrase is stored in the mobile data storage device the method may advance to block in which a distance determination procedure of the mobile data storage device may be calibrated as discussed in more detail below with regard to .

Referring now to the mobile data storage device may also be configured to execute a method for responding to data requests received from the mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether a data request has been received from the mobile communication device via the wireless control link . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device authenticates the mobile communication device . To do so the mobile data storage device may utilize any suitable authentication procedure to verify the identity of the mobile communication device . In some embodiments such authentication is performed as a function of the pairing of the devices . Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the mobile communication device may transmit a cryptographically signed certificate to the mobile data storage device such that the device may authenticate the mobile communication device .

If the mobile communication device is successfully authenticated in block the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device performs the data request. For example in block the mobile data storage device may receive data from the mobile communication device over the wireless data link . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to perform various cryptographic functions on the received data in block . For example the mobile data storage device may be configured to encrypt data received in an unencrypted format decrypt data received in an encrypted format and or perform other cryptographic functions on the received data. In block the mobile data storage device may store the received data in an encrypted or unencrypted form in the data storage .

Alternatively the mobile data storage device may receive a request for data from the mobile communication device . If so the mobile data storage device may retrieve the requested data from the secure data storage in block . In block the mobile data storage device may perform one or more cryptographic functions on the retrieved data. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may encrypt or decrypt the retrieved data in block . The mobile communication device subsequently transmits the retrieved data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link in block .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may also execute a method for managing security functions of the mobile data storage device and or the mobile communication device . In particular the mobile data storage device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device are separated from each other by a distance greater than an established security communication range. To do so the mobile data storage device may determine a range or distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device in block . The range or distance determined in block may be embodied as a distance value e.g. in meters or may be embodied as a value indicative of such distance. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device is configured to determine whether the mobile communication device is within the reference security range relative to the mobile data storage device based on a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link . Alternatively the mobile data storage device may determine a current location of the device using for example the global positioning system GPS circuit and a current location of the mobile communication device e.g. the mobile data storage device may receive data indicative of the location of the mobile communication device over the wireless data link and determine a distance between the devices based on such current locations. Further still the mobile data storage device may use other methodologies such as cellular triangulation or wireless access point location determination to determine the relative distance between the devices .

If the mobile data storage device determines that the mobile communication device is outside the reference security communication range in block the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device may perform one or more security functions. For example in block the mobile data storage device may generate a local alarm which may be embodied as an audible alarm a visual alarm e.g. in embodiments in which the mobile data storage device includes the display and or a tactile alarm. Additionally or alternatively the mobile data storage device may turn off or otherwise disable the wireless data link in block and secure any unsecured data e.g. encrypt any unencrypted data in block . Additionally the mobile data storage device may perform additional or other security functions in block . For example in some embodiments in which the wireless control link is still active the mobile data storage device may be configured to transmit an alert to the mobile communication device over the wireless control link to indicate that a security violation has occurred. Further in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to perform additional functions which may be unrelated or not directly related to security functions in block . For example the mobile data storage device may attempt to reestablish the wireless control link or perform other functions in response to determining that the mobile communication device is outside the reference security communication range.

Referring now to as discussed above with regard to the method of the distance determination functionality of the mobile data storage device may be calibrated in some embodiments. That is the accuracy of the determination of the distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device may be calibrated or otherwise adjusted such that mobile data storage device may more accurately determine whether the mobile communication device is outside the security communication range. The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether to calibrate using a predefined distance. For example the user may select to calibrate using a predefined distance from a menu displayed on the mobile communication device . Alternatively the mobile data storage device may be configured to calibrate using the predefined distance at all times or as a default option. Regardless if calibration using a predefined distance is to be used the method advances to block in which the user is prompted e.g. via the display of the mobile communications device to separate the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device by a fixed distance e.g. three feet . The specific fixed distance used may be preset or selected from a menu by the user. Additionally any one of a number of fixed distances may be used that is within a minimum and maximum separation distance. For example in some embodiments a fixed distance of one to ten feet may be used. Of course in other embodiments other fixed distances may be used.

In block the mobile data storage device determines whether to perform the requested calibration. For example after the user has separated the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device by the fixed distance the user may select a button or option on the mobile communication device to inform the mobile data storage device that the devices have been separated by the fixed distance and instruct the mobile data storage device to perform the calibration. If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device generates distance measurement calibration data which is stored in the mobile data storage device in block . The distance measurement calibration data may be subsequently used as an offset or adjustment to any determined distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device .

Referring back to block if calibration using a predefined distance is not selected or otherwise used the method advances to block . In block the mobile data storage device determines whether to calibrate using a user defined distance. If not the method loops back to block . However if a user defined distance is to be used the method advances to block . In block the user is prompted e.g. via the display of the mobile communications device to separate the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device by some user defined distance and subsequently enter the separation distance into the mobile communication device . After the user enters the distance of separation the method advances to blocks in which the distance measurement calibration data is generated and stored using the user defined distance. It should be appreciated that although the method is described above as being performed on the mobile data storage device the method or portions thereof may be performed on the mobile communication device .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may also execute a method for managing location based functionality of the mobile data storage device . If so the method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines a current location of the device . As discussed above the mobile data storage device may use any suitable methodology to determine the current location. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may include the global positioning system GPS circuitry which may generate data indicative of the current location of the device . Additionally or alternatively the mobile data storage device may utilize the cellular communication circuitry to determine a current location of the device based on a cellular triangulation process. Yet further in other embodiments the mobile data storage device may determine the current location based on a wireless access point location determination methodology or other methodology and or devices.

In block the mobile data storage device determines whether to adjust functionality of the mobile data storage device . For example if the mobile data storage device determines that the device is at the home of the user of the device the mobile data storage device may adjust particular functions of the device relative to other locations such as the work location of the user. To do so in block the mobile data storage device adjusts the functionality based on the determined location. For example in block the mobile data storage device may adjust the reference security range. In this way the reference security range may be increased in trusted locations e.g. the user s home and decreased in untrusted locations e.g. in public places . Additionally in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may adjust the power of various components of the device in block . For example in one particular embodiment the mobile data storage device may adjust the power level of the long range communication circuitry . For example in trusted locations the mobile data storage device may increase the power and thereby communication range of the long range communication circuitry . Additionally in some embodiments additional functions of the mobile data storage device may be adjusted based on the determined location. For example the functions to be adjusted may be based on the user preference settings as controlled by the user and device preference module .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to adjust functionality of the mobile data storage device based on the network or access point to which the mobile data storage device is connected. For example certain functions may be enabled when the mobile data storage device is connected to a known or trusted network e.g. the user s home network and or disabled when connected to an unknown network. The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether the device is connected to a network or access point. If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device determines the identity of the network and or access point. To do so the mobile data storage device may use any suitable methodology including for example a look up table external network sources user input and or an inference engine.

In block the mobile data storage device determines whether to adjust functions based on the identified network or access point. Such determination may be based on for example the user and device preference data controlled by the user and device preference module . If not the method exits. However if the functions of the mobile data storage device are to be adjusted based on the identified network access point the method advances to block . In block the mobile data storage device adjusts particular functions of the device based on the identified network and or access point. Again the particular functions to be adjusted and the nature of such adjustments may be dictated by or in part by the user and device preferences. For example in some embodiments the backup parameters e.g. the frequency of backups is configured in block based on the identified network and or access point.

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may also execute a method for adjusting power settings of the mobile data storage device . The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether to adjust power settings of the mobile data storage device based on a distance between the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device determines a distance or range between the devices . As discussed above the range or distance determined in block may be embodied as a distance value e.g. in meters or may be embodied as a value indicative of such distance. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device is configured to determine whether the mobile communication device is within the reference security range relative to the mobile data storage device based on a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link . Alternatively the mobile data storage device may determine a current location of the device using for example the global positioning system GPS circuit and a current location of the mobile communication device e.g. the mobile data storage device may receive data indicative of the location of the mobile communication device over the wireless data link and determine a distance between the devices based on such current locations. Further still the mobile data storage device may use other methodologies such as cellular triangulation or wireless access point location determination to determine the relative distance between the devices . In embodiments in which the distance determination functionality has been calibrated as discussed above with regard to method of the determined distance is adjusted or otherwise determined based on the calibration data generated in block using the method as discussed above.

Subsequently in block the mobile data storage device is configured to adjust the power settings of the device based on the determined distance or range between the devices . For example in block the mobile data storage device may adjust the power of the long range communication circuitry based on the distance between the devices e.g. the power of the long range communication circuitry may be reduced as the distance between the devices is reduced . Additionally or alternatively the mobile data storage device may be configured to adjust other power functions or features based on the distance or range between the devices in block .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to execute a method for monitoring a power source e.g. the battery of the device . The method begins with block in which the mobile data storage device determines whether the power level of the battery or other power source is below a reference threshold level. The reference threshold level may be selected to be any threshold level depending on the particular implementation. In one particular embodiment the reference threshold level is selected such that the core functionality of the mobile data storage device can be maintained at the reference threshold level e.g. to maintain the wireless control link and data storage functions .

If the mobile data storage device determines that the power level of the battery or other power source is below the reference threshold value the method advances to block . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to transmit an alert to the mobile communication device over the wireless control link to indicate that the power level of the battery is below the reference threshold in block . Subsequently in block the mobile data storage device adjusts power settings of the device so as to preserve the power of the battery or other power source for core functions of the device . For example in block the mobile data storage device may reduce the power of the long range communication circuit or otherwise disable the wireless data link . Additionally in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may have a supplemental power charging port which may be used to charge the mobile communication device and other electronic devices. In such embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to turn off such supplemental charging in block in response to the power level of the battery or other power source being below the reference threshold value. Additionally or alternatively the mobile data storage device may reduce or otherwise adjust power to other circuits or devices of the mobile data storage device in block to thereby preserve power. Further in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may shut down applications e.g. non critical applications currently being executed on the mobile data storage device in block . Additionally in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may perform additional functions which may be not be related to power management or power saving functionality based on the determined power level of the battery in block . Such additional functions may include for example storing critical data backing up data out of sequence and or other functions.

Subsequently in block the mobile data storage device monitors the power level of the battery or other power source to determine if the battery has been recharged to a level above the reference threshold level. If so the mobile data storage device returns the power settings to the previous settings in block .

As discussed above in some embodiments the system may include the cloud data server . In such embodiments the mobile data storage device may be configured to backup data to the cloud data server and or retrieve data therefrom. To do so the mobile data storage device may execute a method for communicating with the data server using the mobile communication device as an intermediary as shown in . The method begins with blocks and . In block the mobile data storage device determines whether to backup data to the cloud data server . As discussed above the mobile data storage device may determine to perform data backup procedures periodically in response to a command from a user of the mobile communication device or in response to some other criteria e.g. the volume of data stored on the mobile data storage device the time since the last backup etc. . Additionally as discussed above the mobile data storage device may be configured to backup all data stored on the device or backup only a portion of the data stored on the device . Further critical or important data may be backed up to the cloud data server more often than less important or critical data.

If the mobile data storage device determines to perform a backup procedure in block the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device establishes a secure connection to the cloud data server . To do so the mobile data storage device uses the mobile communication device to establish the wireless data links to the cloud data server . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may also authenticate the cloud data server in block . To do so the mobile data storage device may utilize any suitable authentication procedure to verify the identity of the data server . For example in some embodiments the cloud data server may transmit a cryptographically signed certificate to the mobile data storage device such that the device may authenticate the cloud data server .

In block the mobile data storage device transmits the data to be backed up to the cloud data server via the mobile communication device and the wireless data links . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device is configured to encrypt the data prior to transmitting the data to the data server . In such embodiments the cloud data server may store the data in the encrypted state in an associated data storage.

Referring back to block as discussed above the mobile data storage device may also retrieve data from the cloud data server . In particular if the mobile data storage device is lost or stolen a user may purchase a new mobile data storage device and restore the data to the newly purchased mobile data storage device from the data server . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device uses the mobile communication device to establish the wireless data links to the cloud data server . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device may also authenticate the cloud data server in block as discussed above.

In block the cloud data server transmits the requested data to the mobile communication device which in turn transmits the requested data to the mobile data storage device for storage therein in block . As discussed above in the illustrative embodiment the cloud data server stores the data in an encrypted state. The mobile data storage device subsequently stores the data in the encrypted state in the data storage in block . In this way new mobile data storage devices may be repopulated with data such that no data is lost in the event that the user loses the original mobile data storage device or the device is stolen.

Referring now to in operation the mobile communication device may execute a method to establish communications with the mobile data storage device . The begins with block in which the mobile communication device determines whether to attempt to pair with the mobile data storage device . Again as discussed above the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device are paired with each other in a 1 1 relationship during use such that the mobile data storage device is configured to communicate only with a single mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may attempt the pairing procedure with the mobile data storage device in response to a selection or command provided by a user of the mobile communication device . In the illustrative embodiment the devices utilize a Bluetooth pairing procedure to establish the wireless control link as discussed above. Of course in other embodiments the devices may use another suitable pairing procedure to establish the wireless control link which may include for example a handshake procedure between the devices .

In block the mobile communication device determines whether the pairing procedure was successful. If not the method loops back to block wherein the pairing procedure may be attempted again. However if the pairing procedure was successful the method advances to block wherein the mobile communication device attempts to establish the wireless data link using the long range communication circuit . As discussed above the wireless data link may be embodied as any type of long range high bandwidth data communication link. In the illustrative embodiment the mobile communication device is configured to establish a Wi Fi communication data link with the mobile data storage device in block .

In block the mobile communication device determines whether the wireless data link has been successfully established. If not the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device notifies the user of the device that an error has occurred in establishing the wireless data link. Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may perform other security functions such as disabling the wireless data link in block . Further if the wireless control link is active the mobile communication device may instruct the mobile data storage device to perform additional security functions such as disabling the long range communication circuit encrypting unencrypted data and or the like in block .

If however the wireless data link was successfully established the method advances to block in which the master passphrase is transmitted to the mobile data storage device . In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to encrypt the master passphrase prior to transmitting the passphrase to the mobile data storage device .

Referring now to in use the mobile communication device may execute a method for performing data functions of the data based applications executed on the mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which one or more data based applications are executed on the mobile communication device . As discussed above the data based applications may be embodied as any type of application that accesses generates stores or otherwise uses data which may be stored on the mobile data storage device . In some embodiments the data based applications are standard applications that are not specifically designed for use with the mobile data storage device . Rather the data management module facilitates the storage and retrieval of the data used by use data based applications to from the mobile data storage device as discussed above.

In blocks the mobile communication device determines whether the data based applications are requesting performance of a data function such as the retrieval or storage of data. For example in block the mobile communication device i.e. the data management module determines whether one or more of the data based applications has requested to retrieve data. If so the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device transmits a data retrieval request to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link . The data retrieval request may include data or information that identifies the requested data. In response the mobile data storage device locates retrieves and transmits the requested data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link which is received by the mobile communication device in block . In embodiments wherein the requested data is transmitted in an encrypted state the mobile communication device decrypts the received data in block and provides the data to the requesting data based application in block .

Referring back to block the mobile communication device i.e. the data management module determines whether one or more of the data based applications has requested to store data. If so the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device transmits a data storage request to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link . The data storage request may include data or information that identifies the data to be stored the location in which to store the data and or other metadata associated with the data to be stored. In some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to encrypt the data to be stored in block prior to transmitting the data to the mobile data storage device over the wireless data link in block .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to execute a method for managing security functions of the mobile communication device . In particular in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device and the mobile communication device are separated from each other by a distance greater than the reference security communication range. To do so the mobile communication device may determine a range or distance between the mobile communication device and the mobile data storage device in block . As discussed above the range or distance determined in block may be embodied as a distance value e.g. in meters or may be embodied as a value indicative of such distance. For example in some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to determine whether the mobile data storage device is within the reference security range relative to the mobile communication device based on a received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement of the wireless control link . Alternatively the mobile communication device may determine a current location of the device using for example the global positioning system GPS circuit and a current location of the mobile data storage device e.g. the mobile communication device may receive data indicative of the location of the mobile data storage device over the wireless data link and determine a distance between the devices based on such current locations. Further still the mobile communication device may use other methodologies such as cellular triangulation or wireless access point location determination to determine the relative distance between the devices .

If the mobile communication device determines that the mobile data storage device is outside the reference security communication range in block the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device may perform one or more security functions. For example in block the mobile communication device may lock the mobile communication device such that a user must enter the passcode to unlock the device . Additionally or alternatively the security application of the mobile communication device may adjust the passcode timeout length to the minimum time available such that the passcode requirement is implemented as quickly as possible in block .

Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may generate a local alarm in block which may be embodied as an audible alarm a visual alarm and or a tactile alarm. Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may turn off or otherwise disable the wireless data link in block and secure any unsecured data e.g. encrypt any unencrypted data in block . Additionally the mobile communication device may perform additional or other security functions in block . Further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to perform additional functions which may be unrelated or not directly related to security functions in block . For example the mobile communication device may attempt to reestablish the wireless control link or perform other functions in response to determining that the mobile data storage device is outside the reference security communication range.

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile communication device may also execute a method for managing location based functionality of the mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device determines a current location of the device . As discussed above the mobile communication device may use any suitable methodology to determine the current location of the device . For example in some embodiments the mobile communication device may include the global positioning system GPS circuitry which may generate data indicative of the current location of the device . Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may utilize the cellular communication circuitry to determine a current location of the device based on a cellular triangulation process. Yet further in other embodiments the mobile communication device may determine the current location based on a wireless access point location determination methodology or other methodology and or devices as discussed above.

In block the mobile communication device determines whether to adjust functionality of the mobile communication device based on the current location. For example if the mobile communication device determines that the mobile communication device is at the home of the user of the device the mobile communication device may adjust particular functions of the device relative to other locations such as the work location of the user in a manner similar to the mobile data storage device discussed above in regard to . To do so in block the mobile communication device adjusts the functionality of the device based on the determined location. For example in block the mobile communication device may adjust the reference security range. In this way the reference security range may be increased in trusted locations e.g. the user s home and decreased in untrusted locations e.g. in public places . Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device adjusts the functionality of one or more of the data based applications executed on the mobile communication device in block . For example the availability of data stored on the mobile data storage device may be controlled based on the determined location of the mobile communication device .

Additionally in some embodiments e.g. wherein the mobile data storage device cannot determine its current location the mobile communication device may further adjust the functionality of the mobile data storage device by transmitting control signals via the wireless control link in block . For example the mobile communication device may instruct the mobile data storage device to adjust the reference security communication range adjust the power of the long range communication circuit and or adjust other functionality of the mobile data storage device based on the determined location.

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile communication device may also be configured execute a method for monitoring a power source e.g. the battery of the mobile data storage device and adjust features of the mobile communication device based on a determined power level of the power source. The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device determines whether the power level of the battery or other power source of the mobile data storage device is below a reference threshold level. As discussed above the reference threshold level may be selected to be any threshold level depending on the particular implementation. In one particular embodiment the reference threshold level is selected such that the core functionality of the mobile data storage device can be maintained at the reference threshold level e.g. to maintain the wireless control link and data storage functions . The mobile communication device may determine the power level of the mobile data storage device based on communications received from the device over the wireless control link . The mobile data storage device may be configured to transmit periodically the power level of the battery or may transmit the power level to the mobile communication device in response to an inquiry sent by the device over the wireless control link .

If the mobile communication device determines that the power level of the battery or other power source of the mobile data storage device is below the reference threshold value in block the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device adjusts features of the device based on the power level of the power source of the mobile data storage device . For example in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to restrict data retrieval from the mobile data storage device to priority applications executed on the mobile communication device in block . In block the mobile communication device may also adjust power settings of the mobile data storage device by transmitting instructions via the wireless control link . For example the mobile communication device may instruct the mobile data storage device to lower the output power of the long range communication circuit .

Subsequently in block the mobile communication device monitors the power level of the battery or other power source of the mobile data storage device to determine if the battery has been recharged to a level above the reference threshold level. If so the mobile communication device returns the power settings of the devices to the previous settings in block .

Referring now to in some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to execute a method for monitoring a power source e.g. the battery of the device . The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device determines whether the power level of the battery or other power source is below a reference threshold level. The reference threshold level may be selected to be any threshold level depending on the particular implementation. In one particular embodiment the reference threshold level is selected such that the core functionality of the mobile communication device can be maintained at the reference threshold level e.g. to maintain the wireless control link and or cellular communication functionality .

If the mobile communication device determines that the power level of the battery or other power source is below the reference threshold value the method advances to block . In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to transmit an alert to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link to indicate that the power level of the battery is below the reference threshold in block . Subsequently in block the mobile communication device adjusts power settings and or features of the device so as to preserve the power of the battery or other power source for core functions of the device .

For example in block the mobile communication device may suspend data backup to the mobile data storage device or other destination device e.g. the remote data server . In so doing the mobile communication device may suspend all data backup or suspend only non critical data backup based on for example user and device preferences. Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may reduce or otherwise adjust the power level of the long range communication circuit and or otherwise disable the wireless data link . Further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may suspend location determination features of the device such as for example the global positioning system . Additionally in some embodiments the mobile communication device may shut down applications e.g. non critical applications currently being executed on the mobile communication device in block . Yet further in some embodiments the mobile communication device may perform additional functions which may be not be related to power management or power saving functionality based on the determined power level of the battery in block . Such additional functions may include for example storing critical data backing up data out of sequence and or other functions.

Subsequently in block the mobile communication device monitors the power level of the battery or other power source to determine if the battery has been recharged to a level above the reference threshold level. If so the mobile communication device returns the power settings to the previous settings in block .

Referring now to as discussed above the mobile communication device may communicate data stored on the mobile data storage device to additional mobile communication device in some embodiments e.g. the mobile communication device may act as an intermediary between the mobile data storage device and the additional mobile communication device . To do so the mobile communication device may execute a method for communicating data to the secondary or additional mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device determines whether the secondary mobile communication device is requesting data from the mobile data storage device . If so the mobile communication device determines whether the secondary mobile communication device is authorized for the requested data in block . Such authorization may depend for example on the type of data being requested. For example in some embodiments the mobile data storage device may flag or otherwise indicate particular data that is available for public sharing. If the secondary mobile communication device is not authorized for the requested data the method advances to block in which the request for the data is rejected by the mobile communication device .

However if the secondary mobile communication device is authorized for the requested data the method advances to block in which the mobile communication device transmits a data retrieval request to the mobile data storage device over the wireless control link . The data retrieval request may include data or information that identifies the requested data. In response the mobile data storage device locates retrieves and transmits the requested data to the mobile communication device over the wireless data link which is received by the mobile communication device in block . In embodiments wherein the requested data is transmitted in an encrypted state the mobile communication device decrypts the received data in block and provides the data to the requesting secondary mobile data communication device in block .

As discussed above the system may include the cloud data server in some embodiments. In such embodiments the mobile communication device facilitates the backup of data to the cloud data server and or the retrieval of data therefrom. To do so the mobile communication device may execute a method for facilitating communications with the cloud data server as shown in . The method begins with blocks and . In block the mobile communication device determines whether to backup data from the mobile data storage device to the cloud data server . For example the mobile communication device may receive a request from the mobile data storage device to backup data to the data server . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device establishes a secure connection with the cloud data server over the network . In some embodiments the mobile communication device may also authenticate the cloud data server in block . To do so the mobile communication device may utilize any suitable authentication procedure to verify the identity of the data server . For example in some embodiments the cloud data server may transmit a cryptographically signed certificate to the mobile communication device such that the device may authenticate the cloud data server .

In block the mobile communication device retrieves the data to be backed up from the mobile data storage device . In some embodiments the mobile data storage device transmits the data to the mobile communication device in an encrypted state over the wireless data link . The mobile communication device transmits the encrypted data or unencrypted data to the cloud data server for storage thereon in block .

Referring back to block as discussed above the data stored on the cloud data server may also be used to restore or repopulate the mobile data storage device . If so the method advances to block in which the mobile data storage device establishes a secure connection with the cloud data server over the network . As discussed above in some embodiments the mobile communication device may also authenticate the cloud data server in block .

In block the mobile communication device retrieves the encrypted data from the cloud data server that will be used to repopulate the mobile data storage device e.g. a new or replacement mobile data storage device . As discussed above the cloud data server may store data thereon in an encrypted state to ensure the security of the data. As such the mobile communication device may subsequently transmit the encrypted or unencrypted data to the mobile data storage device via the wireless data link for storage thereon in block . In this way new or replacement mobile data storage devices may be repopulated with data such that no data is lost in the event that the loser loses the original mobile data storage device or the device is stolen.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the disclosure are desired to be protected.

