---

title: Electromagnetic flow meter having a driver circuit including a current transducer
abstract: An electromagnetic flow meter (EMFM) accurately measures both the complete flow rate and the dynamically fluctuating flow rate of a fluid by applying a unipolar DC voltage to excitation coils for a predetermined period of time, measuring the electric potential at a pair of electrodes, determining a complete flow rate and independently measuring the dynamic flow rate during the “on” cycle of the DC excitation, and correcting the measurements for errors resulting from galvanic drift and other effects on the electric potential. The EMFM can also correct for effects from the excitation circuit induced during operation of the EMFM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08844370&OS=08844370&RS=08844370
owner: Concepts ETI, Inc.
number: 08844370
owner_city: White River Junction
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
Subject matter of this disclosure was made with government support under NASA Contract No. NNM08AA55C. The government has certain rights in this subject matter.

This application is a non provisional of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 787 559 filed Mar. 15 2013 entitled Electromagnetic Flow Meter which application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of fluid flow monitoring and control systems. In particular the present invention is directed to an Electromagnetic Flow Meter for conductive fluids.

An electromagnetic flow meter EMFM measures the flow rate in a conductive fluid by inducing a magnetic field in the flow duct through which the fluid passes. The electrical potential induced in the fluid is a function of and directly proportional to the fluid velocity within the duct. While prior art EMFMs are generally capable of measuring steady state or quasi steady state flow rates of the fluid in the flow duct they fail to accurately measure continuously varying velocities or flow rates. Continuously varying velocities may occur in certain flow systems such as those used in dynamic transfer function DTF testing of components utilized in liquid fueled rocket propulsion systems. DTF testing is performed to characterize the dynamic response of such components in order to provide the building blocks of a fluid dynamic model of such a liquid fueled propulsion system.

Prior art EMFMs utilize pulsed direct current DC excitation or alternating current AC excitation methods to capture flows rates. The excitation is typically measured to provide normalization for the small variations in excitation voltage. The DC excitation method is limited by the pulse frequency which limits the method to capturing quasi steady state flow rates thereby rendering the method unsuitable for measuring continuously varying flow rates over wide bandwidths. The DC excitation method is also inherently limited by the natural charge of the conductive fluid and changes in the electrodes over time commonly termed galvanic drift. In some situations the electric potential induced by galvanic drift is significantly greater than the electric potential associated with the flow velocity of the fluid.

Attempts to overcome the deficiencies of the DC excitation method have resulted in the development of the AC excitation method. In the AC excitation method the magnetic coils of the EMFM are excited with an alternating current typically powered by line 240V or 120V 60 Hz or 50 Hz sinusoidal voltage. The excitation is typically measured to provide normalization for the small variations in line voltage. The output signal is then measured on a mean level root mean square or other to provide a proportional output value to fluid flow rate. Prior efforts to capture fluctuating flow rates attempted to extend the response bandwidth of EMFM by increasing the AC excitation frequency to the point of satisfying the Nyquist criteria for the measurement of flow fluctuations. In order to adequately resolve the velocity variation of higher frequency flow fluctuations it was expected to require at least 10 to 25 samples throughout each flow velocity variation. However this could require high AC frequencies that could result in high eddy current losses in the coil windings and cores. Moreover in order to achieve adequate output signal amplitude at high measurement rates high excitation voltages are required. These high losses on high excitation levels result in external heating of the EMFM associated damage to the measurement device due to the heating and associated heating of the contained fluid.

In one implementation the present disclosure is directed to an electromagnetic flow meter for measuring the flow rate of a conductive fluid in a conduit. The electromagnetic flow meter comprises an electromagnetic transducer designed and configured to produce a magnetic field that extends into the conductive fluid within the conduit so as to induce an electrical potential within the conductive fluid a driver circuit designed and configured to drive said electromagnetic transducer with an electrical current so as to produce the magnetic field said driver circuit including a current transducer said current transducer designed and configured to produce a current signal representative of the electric current at least two electrodes designed and configured to generate an electric potential signal representative of the electric potential of the conductive fluid a signal conditioning unit in electrical communication with said at least two electrodes said signal conditioning unit generating a conditioned signal from said electric potential signal and a signal processing unit electronically coupled to said signal conditioning unit and said driver circuit said signal processing unit determining designed and configured to determine a flow rate from said conditioned signal and said current signal.

In another implementation the present disclosure is directed to an electromagnetic flow meter. The electromagnetic flow meter comprises a conduit for transporting a conductive fluid at least two electrodes coupled to said conduit said at least two electrodes designed and configured to generate an electric potential signal representative of an electric potential of the conductive fluid a driver circuit designed and configured to induce a magnetic field within said conduit and including a current transducer said current transducer designed and configured to produce a current signal representative of an electric current within said driver circuit and a signal conditioning unit in electrical communication with said at least two electrodes said signal conditioning unit including an AC coupled circuit and a direct coupled circuit wherein each of said AC coupled circuit and direct coupled circuit is designed and configured to receive said electric potential signal and wherein said AC coupled circuit is designed and configured to generate an AC conditioned signal and said direct coupled circuit generates a direct conditioned signal.

In yet another implementation the present disclosure is directed a method of determining a flow rate of a conductive fluid. The method comprises periodically applying a magnetic field to the conductive fluid measuring an electric potential of the fluid in the conduit when the magnetic field is applied and when it is not applied conditioning the electric potential from said measuring determining at least one flow rate component and removing electric potential errors from the at least one flow rate component.

Prior art electromagnetic flow meters EMFMs fail to capture subtle dynamic changes in flow rate and to correct for errors that lead to flow rate measurement inaccuracies over time which results in ineffective management of the fluid flow. show an exemplary graph of a flow rate over time for a conductive fluid flowing through a pipe. As shown in flow rate appears to be relatively constant over time hovering at about 200 gallons per minute. When examined in greater detail however and as shown in flow rate varies significantly over time increasing and decreasing above and below 200 gallons per minute as well as making a relatively constant shift upwards over the excerpted time frame. The increases and decreases seen in flow rate may be due to flow controls e.g. pumps valves and associated controllers that manipulate the fluid flow rate while the relatively constant shift upwards is likely due to galvanic drift or other potential errors induced or inherent in the fluid measurement system.

To minimize flow rate variance and correct for flow rate measurement errors an EMFM according to the present disclosure accurately measures both a complete flow rate and a dynamically fluctuating component of the complete flow rate of a fluid within a flow duct by applying a unipolar DC voltage to excitation coils for a predetermined period of time measuring the electric potential at a pair of electrodes determining a complete flow rate and then determining a dynamic or fluctuating component of the complete flow rate during the on cycle of the DC excitation and correcting the measurements for errors resulting from galvanic drift and other effects on the electric potential. Such an EMFM can also correct for effects from the excitation circuit induced during operation of the EMFM.

Turning now to there is shown an EMFM according to an embodiment of the present invention. At a high level EMFM measures both a complete and a dynamic flow rate of a conductive fluid flowing through a pipe having a dielectric liner the pipe being coupled to an electrical ground . The flow rate of fluid is determined by the measured electric potential that results from applying a magnetic field that extends within pipe . The magnetic field is generated using driver circuitry described more fully below . The electric potential generated by magnetic field is measured using electrodes A and B that are coupled to pipe so as to be in contact with the conductive fluid. The measured electric potential from each of electrodes A and B are transmitted to a signal conditioning unit which modifies the measured potential signals for transmission to a signal processing unit . Signal processing unit is designed and configured to determine a complete and time varying flow rate. Fluid velocity and flow rate may be inferred from the measured electric potential because the velocity of the conductive fluid is proportional to the electric potential generated by magnetic field . Thus an instantaneous bulk fluid velocity of the fluid may be calculated based on the magnitude of the magnetic field and the measured electric potential. The complete flow rate calculated by signal processing unit can also be used to determine a dynamic time varying component of the complete flow rate which represents a variation of the measured flow rate above a selected cutoff frequency during the on duty cycle of driver circuitry . The output of the signal processing unit is sent to a data processing unit which removes errors such as but not limited to galvanic drift from one or more of the flow rates e.g. the dynamic time varying flow rate or the complete flow rate.

In an exemplary embodiment of EMFM driver circuitry generates a unipolar pulsed DC voltage so as to induce magnetic field within pipe . In this embodiment driver circuitry alternates regularly between two voltage levels so as to periodically induce magnetic field . Typical excitation voltages might be in the range of 12 Volts to 42 Volts but may be as little as 6 Volts or as much as 60 Volts. The resulting electrical potential in the fluid is then measured at the electrodes after a pre defined settling time the settling time being the time for the voltage to reach a steady state. The switching time or rate between switching voltages is limited by the required settling time for the measurement of each flow rate sample. In the example shown driver circuitry includes a DC voltage source a switch an excitation coil and a current transducer . DC voltage source is used to supply a voltage potential and is electrically coupled to switch and current transducer . Switch periodically receives a signal from a remotely controlled signal provider indicated generally at so as to complete the circuit that allows current to travel to excitation coil from DC voltage source . Current transducer measures the current traveling through the circuit and produces a signal that is received by signal processing unit . When energized excitation coil generates a magnetic field and being proximate to a magnet core causes the magnet core to project magnetic field .

With reference now to signal conditioning unit receives a pair of measured electric potential signals A and B one from each of electrodes A and B respectively as inputs. Each of measured electric potential signal A and B is received at an AC coupled circuit and a direct coupled circuit both of which serve to condition the measured electric potential signal for further analysis by signal processing unit . AC coupled circuit includes a high pass filter a differential amplifier and a low pass filter . High pass filter passes high frequency signals and attenuates signals with frequencies lower than a predetermined cutoff frequency. Differential amplifier increases the amplitude of the high frequency signals received from high pass filter . As described in more detail below the amplification of the high frequency signals allows for the dynamic analysis of the variance of the flow rate of the conductive fluid in pipe over time. Low pass filter receives amplified high frequency signals from differential amplifier and removes noise and undesirable fluctuations from the high frequency signal by passing low frequency signals and attenuating signals with frequencies higher than the a predetermined frequency. In alternative embodiments AC coupled circuit does not include low pass filter .

As mentioned above direct coupled circuit also receives the measured electric potential signals A and B from electrodes A and B respectively. Direct coupled circuit includes a differential amplifier and a low pass filter both of which serve similar purposes as differential amplifier and low pass filter described above however the devices may be configured differently.

Returning to a pair of conditioned signals are output from each of AC coupled circuit and direct coupled circuit e.g. conditioned signals A B and A B respectively. Conditioned signals A B and A B along with a current signal from current transducer are received by signal processing unit . In an exemplary embodiment signal processing unit is a high frequency data acquisition system that provides synchronized precision clock timed analysis of the incoming conditioned signals A B A and B. Signal processing unit determines a complete flow rate described in more detail with reference to from conditioned signals A B and a dynamic flow rate described in more detail with reference to from conditioned signals A B.

Signal processing unit also evaluates the electric potential drift affecting the measurements of EMFM . Based on current signal signal processing unit determines when the DC excitation from driver circuitry is in an off mode also seen in i.e. between on periods that would excite excitation coils . Although there is no DC excitation during the off mode conditioned signals A B A and B are still generated and transmitted to signal processing unit which allows the signal processing unit to evaluate the electric potential differences between each respective conditioned signal at consecutive DC excitation off modes. The electric potential differences represent the drift that occurred during the time the DC excitation was on.

The complete and dynamic flow rates or representational values of the flow rates are sent to data processing unit which removes the drift determined by signal processing unit discussed further below with reference to . Data processing unit may via a user interface not shown present this information to a user for evaluation and or the information may be provided to other parts of a flow control system not shown e.g. pump or valve controllers for modification of the flow rate in pipe .

Turning now to there is shown a method of determining the fluid flow rate of a conductive fluid in a pipe. At step the electric potential of the fluid is measured. As described above the electric potential of the fluid may be measured by producing a magnetic field such that the conductive fluid is affected by the field and measuring the electric potential at electrodes spaced apart within the pipe. In an exemplary embodiment step is facilitated by using a unipolar pulse DC voltage to excite excitation coils.

At step the measurements of the electric potential representing the rate of fluid flow within the pipe are conditioned to provide a complete flow measurement of the fluid flow rate as well as a dynamic time varying measurement of the fluid flow rate. In an exemplary embodiment electric potential data measured at the electrodes is conditioned using both an AC coupled circuit and a direct coupled circuit. The AC coupled circuit conditions the data for suitable determination of the dynamic time varying flow rate of the fluid while the direct coupled circuit conditions the data for determination of the complete flow rate.

At step a complete flow rate and dynamic time varying flow rate are determined. The complete flow rate is determined through an analysis of the data received from for example the direct coupled circuit. In an exemplary embodiment a processing unit such as signal processing unit uses the conditioned electric potential values received after the DC excitation has settled. An example settling time for a DC excitation is shown in which is a graph displaying the change in voltage over time and includes a DC excitation on period generated by driver circuitry such as driver circuitry . Settling time is the period shortly after excitation initiation time . The duration of settling time will vary based on the design of the driver circuitry and the magnitude of the DC excitation among other things. After the end of settling time shown as settling end the signal processing unit receives conditioned electric potential measurements throughout the period that DC excitation is applied and uses these conditioned electric potential measurements to determine the complete flow rate at each measurement time.

The dynamic time varying flow rate can be determined through an analysis of the electric potential data received from the AC coupled circuit. In an exemplary embodiment the dynamic time varying flow rate is determined using a high frequency data acquisition system that provides synchronized precision clock timed analysis of the data. Thus at repetitive equally spaced time intervals the flow rate value is determined. In an exemplary embodiment the time intervals are 1 1024 of a second.

At step errors such as galvanic shift and other electric potential effects in the measured flow rates are removed. The removal process may include evaluating the electric potential before and after the initiation of the DC excitation. For example and with reference to an initial off period preceded excitation initiation and a terminating off period starts at the end of DC excitation and ends prior to a second excitation initiation . During the first off period and the second off period the electric potentials are measured and the mean value of the two periods determined. Said mean value is then differenced from the corresponding flow rates measured during DC excitation so as to correct for the errors.

Exemplary embodiments have been disclosed above and illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes omissions and additions may be made to that which is specifically disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

