---

title: System for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic using network analysis
abstract: Described is system and method for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion. The system receives, as input, a message from an online discussion related to a topic. The message is analyzed for information related to the message. A graph comprising a plurality of nodes is generated, where each of the plurality of nodes represents an entity. The graph is updated over time as additional messages from the online discussion are received, such that additional nodes are generated and linked with at least one of the plurality of nodes by paths. A closeness value for each node is determined based on the path lengths. The entities are ranked based on the closeness values, thereby providing a ranking of the entities by level of importance in the online discussion to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646057&OS=09646057&RS=09646057
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 09646057
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140805
---
This invention was made with government support under U.S. Government Contract Number D12PC00285 Open Source Indicators. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This is a Non Provisional Application of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 862 444 filed on Aug. 5 2013 entitled Method for Discovering Important Elements that Drive an Online Discussion of a Topic Using Network Analysis. 

This is also a Non Provisional Application of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 862 467 filed on Aug. 5 2013 entitled Method for Gauging Public Interest in a Topic Using Network Analysis of Online Discussions. 

The present invention relates to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic and more particularly to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic using network analysis.

The large scale of microblogging activity has given rise to free form discussions in which participants may join and leave at any time. Measuring the public interest in a topic through its online discussions in microblogs can be difficult due to the sheer scale of microblog data e.g. 100 million new posts per day to Twitter as well as the variety of language used in the discussion. Furthermore the frequency with which entities appear in a discussion may not correlate with their importance. For example consider a spammer who repeatedly posts the same message about a topic to a discussion. The elements of that message will have a high frequency however their relative importance i.e. whether other discussion participants build on those messages may be very low due their status as spam. Furthermore within a single discussion many subtopics may emerge with varying degrees of frequency. Detecting and ranking the important elements of these sub discussions can be difficult using a frequency based analysis since a less frequent element e.g. a news story might be discussed by a small core group whereas another news story may just be mentioned more times by unrelated individuals.

Several works have leveraged the structure of microblog discussions to discover important features individually such as hyperlinks see the List of Incorporated Cited Literature References Literature Reference No. 6 hashtags see Literature Reference No. 4 events see Literature Reference No. 3 or Tweets themselves see Literature Reference No. 2 . For example Romero Meeder and Kleinberg see Literature Reference No. 4 analyzed the growth and persistence of hashtags in different topic categories demonstrating that the emergence of a popular hashtag is highly topic dependent. Their method could be used to measure important hashtags. However it does not take into account users uniform resource locators URLs Tweets or locations.

In a separate work De Choudhury Counts and Czerwinski see Literature Reference No. 2 considered a problem related to what is most important for a search result given a search query for a term. Using microtext social network and discussion attributes that were selected based on a user survey they found that Tweets which exemplified diversity in these attributes were among the best to return according to a user assessment. Their work could be considered an alternate approach to identifying the most important Tweets in a discussion. However their method does not take multiple entities into account.

Ruiz et al. see Literature Reference No. 5 proposed a similar method for constructing networks from Twitter messages about a publically traded company and demonstrated how the properties of this network could be used to predict stock price changes. Their network representation does not consider the location of the users which is essential to identifying geographically local discussions. Furthermore their method did not consider normalizing the diameter of the graph and therefore was not effective in using the diameter for the purposes of their paper.

The representation of discussions as interconnected networks of entities has not been considered in the prior art. Existing processes for discovering important elements have largely relied on frequency based analysis or on identifying important users and analyzing their content. Thus a continuing need exists for a method that relies upon the interconnectedness of all of a discussion s entities as a way of discovering which elements are important to a discussion.

The present invention relates to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic and more particularly to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic using network analysis. The system comprises one or more processors and a memory having instructions such that when the instructions are executed the one or more processors perform multiple operations. A message is received as input from an online discussion related to a topic. The message is analyzed for information related to the message. A graph comprising a plurality of nodes is generated wherein each of the plurality of nodes represents an entity. The graph is updated over time as additional messages from the online discussion are received such that additional nodes are generated and linked with at least one of the plurality of nodes by paths having path lengths. A closeness value is determined for each node based on the path lengths. The entities are ranked based on the closeness values thereby providing a ranking of the entities by level of importance in the online discussion. The ranking of the entities is output to a user.

In another aspect the closeness value represents a relative centrality of an entity to all other entities.

In another aspect the information related to the message is selected from a group consisting of user information location information hyperlink information and annotation information.

In another aspect the location information is obtained from at least one of geo coordinate information related to the message or location information in a user profile from the online discussion.

In another aspect the present invention comprises a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a new consumer product. The system comprises one or more processors and a memory having instructions such that when the instructions are executed the one or more processors perform multiple operations. A message is received as input from an online discussion related to a topic. The message is analyzed for information related to the message. A graph comprising a plurality of nodes is generated wherein each of the plurality of nodes represents an entity. The graph is updated over time as additional messages from the online discussion are received such that additional nodes are generated and linked with at least one of the plurality of nodes by paths having path lengths. A closeness value is determined for each node based on the path lengths. The entities are ranked based on the closeness values thereby providing a ranking of the entities by level of importance in the online discussion. The ranking of the entities is output to a user wherein the user monitors an online discussion among consumers related to a new consumer product and uses the ranking of the entities to identify a set of discussion elements that drive the online discussion of the new consumer product.

In another aspect the present invention also comprises a method for causing a processor to perform the operations described herein.

Finally in yet another aspect the present invention also comprises a computer program product comprising computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that are executable by a computer having a processor for causing the processor to perform the operations described herein.

The present invention relates to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic and more particularly to a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic using network analysis. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and to incorporate it in the context of particular applications. Various modifications as well as a variety of uses in different applications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to a wide range of embodiments. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments presented but is to be accorded with the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without necessarily being limited to these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

The reader s attention is directed to all papers and documents which are filed concurrently with this specification and which are open to public inspection with this specification and the contents of all such papers and documents are incorporated herein by reference. All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claims abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

Furthermore any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of or act of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 Paragraph 6.

Please note if used the labels left right front back top bottom forward reverse clockwise and counter clockwise have been used for convenience purposes only and are not intended to imply any particular fixed direction. Instead they are used to reflect relative locations and or directions between various portions of an object. As such as the present invention is changed the above labels may change their orientation.

Before describing the invention in detail first a list of cited literature references used in the description is provided. Subsequently a description of various principal aspects of the present invention is provided. Finally specific details of the present invention are provided to give an understanding of the specific aspects.

The following references are cited throughout this application. For clarity and convenience the references are listed herein as a central resource for the reader. The following references are hereby incorporated by reference as though fully included herein. The references are cited in the application by referring to the corresponding literature reference number as follows 

The present invention has three principal aspects. The first is a system for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic. The system is typically in the form of a computer system computer component or computer network operating software or in the form of a hard coded instruction set. This system may take a variety of forms with a variety of hardware devices and may include computer networks handheld computing devices cellular networks satellite networks and other communication devices. As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art this system may be incorporated into a wide variety of devices that provide different functionalities. The second principal aspect is a method for discovering important elements that drive an online discussion of a topic. The computer program product generally represents computer readable instruction means instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as an optical storage device e.g. a compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD or a magnetic storage device such as a floppy disk or magnetic tape. Other non limiting examples of computer readable media include hard disks read only memory ROM and flash type memories.

The term instructions as used with respect to this invention generally indicates a set of operations to be performed on a computer and may represent pieces of a whole program or individual separable software modules. Non limiting examples of instructions include computer program code source or object code and hard coded electronics i.e. computer operations coded into a computer chip . The instructions may be stored on any non transitory computer readable medium such as a floppy disk a CD ROM a flash drive and in the memory of a computer.

The large scale of microblogging activity has given rise to free form discussions in which participants may join and leave at any time. Furthermore for a given topic many factors such as news stories or region specific interest may drive new users to participate. For example Romero Meeder and Kleinberg see Literature Reference No. 4 noted that topical categories often have very different patterns in how information is shared in their discussions. However it is often unknown what drives the discussion of a specific topic. That is are specific people responsible for ensuring the discussion continues Does geographic locality or specific related content such as media generated from the continuous news cycle drive discussion 

Described is a system and method for uncovering these conversation driving entities based on a network analysis of the discussion. The system uses a novel graph methodology to represent the overarching discussion of a topic in microblogs as a graph with interconnected users topics locations hashtags and hyperlinks. The process then analyzes each entity in the graph in terms of its network properties to rank them by importance. A unique aspect of the system is using a network measure of closeness which enables identifying not only the most important elements but also the entities of secondary and tertiary importance from the other entities that do not drive the discussion. Furthermore the methodology described herein is language independent and enables real time monitoring of changes to the discussion.

As shown in a network is constructed in which individual Tweets link to four other node types users hyperlinks URL hashtags and locations . The users node provides information related to who created and or mentioned the Tweet . The URL node provides information related to where the Tweet is cited. The hashtags node provides information related to how the Tweet is annotated. A hashtag is a word or phrase preceded by a hash or pound sign and used to identify messages on a specific topic. The locations node provides information related to the location of the Tweet . As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art the node types and number that are used in construction of the network illustrated in need not be limited to those described above. Furthermore references to Tweets and Twitter are used as a non limiting example of textual messages between users of a social network. Thus references to Tweets and Twitte are used only for illustrative purposes and the present invention is not intended to be limited thereto.

As new Tweets are added to the network nodes are generated based on the Tweet s content and are linked with existing nodes in the discussion. As the online discussion grows the network grows more connected to elements that are shared in common between many Tweets . For example a viral news story would generate a graph with many Tweets 102 pointing to the same hyperlink URL and possibly to a Tweet that was shared multiple times i.e. retweet whereas a discussion from a single city would have many Tweets linked to the same location . Importantly this network representation of an online discussion enables modeling of shared relations between the features.

For associating Tweets with locations a two step process is used. First approximately 1 of all Tweets come with geo coordinates which allows one to accurately recover the location at which a Tweet originated. For instance the Google Maps Reverse Geocoding service developed by Google located at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View Calif. 94043 can be used to convert geo coordinates into a canonical city level location name. Second when geo coordinates are not available a method which looks into a user s profile for a location and uses that as the location of the Tweeted message can be followed see Literature Reference No. 1 . Location names from user profiles were further normalized to the same set of city labels. Furthermore using the Tweets with geo coordinates as ground truth the standard errors for profile based location names were calculated and those names with a median error above 25 kilometers were removed ensuring a higher precision at the expense of recall. Ultimately in experimental studies approximately 32 of all messages were linked with a location.

To identify and rank the key elements of a discussion the closeness value for each node is calculated. As a non limiting example the closeness of a node v is calculated according to the following 

Specifically using closeness provides two advantages. First the distribution of closeness values allows for better separation of entities of secondary and tertiary importance . In contrast all entities but the few most dominant have low PageRank scores which makes them difficult to properly separate from other unimportant entities not shown that have similarly low Pagerank values. Second the closeness values are much less sensitive to fluctuations in discussion frequencies i.e. are more stable over time which enables better temporal comparison of the relative importance of an item over time.

The invention described herein can be applied to any system that needs to identify features i.e. discussion elements that capture collective behavior for prediction. Additionally the present invention has applications for programs that require finding what entities are most important in online discussions. For instance a company could monitor the discussion around a new product line to estimate what drives the discussion of the product.

An example of a computer system in accordance with one aspect is shown in . The computer system is configured to perform calculations processes operations and or functions associated with a program or algorithm. In one aspect certain processes and steps discussed herein are realized as a series of instructions e.g. software program that reside within computer readable memory units and are executed by one or more processors of the computer system . When executed the instructions cause the computer system to perform specific actions and exhibit specific behavior such as described herein.

The computer system may include an address data bus that is configured to communicate information. Additionally one or more data processing units such as a processor are coupled with the address data bus . The processor is configured to process information and instructions. In one aspect the processor is a microprocessor. Alternatively the processor may be a different type of processor such as a parallel processor or a field programmable gate array. The computer system is configured to utilize one or more data storage units. The computer system may include a volatile memory unit e.g. random access memory RAM static RAM dynamic RAM etc. coupled with the address data bus wherein a volatile memory unit is configured to store information and instructions for the processor . The computer system further may include a non volatile memory unit e.g. read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. coupled with the address data bus wherein the non volatile memory unit is configured to store static information and instructions for the processor . Alternatively the computer system may execute instructions retrieved from an online data storage unit such as in Cloud computing. In an embodiment the computer system also may include one or more interfaces such as an interface coupled with the address data bus . The one or more interfaces are configured to enable the computer system to interface with other electronic devices and computer systems. The communication interfaces implemented by the one or more interfaces may include wireline e.g. serial cables modems network adaptors etc. and or wireless e.g. wireless modems wireless network adaptors etc. communication technology.

In one aspect the computer system may include an input device coupled with the address data bus wherein the input device is configured to communicate information and command selections to the processor . In accordance with one aspect the input device is an alphanumeric input device such as a keyboard that may include alphanumeric and or function keys. Alternatively the input device may be an input device other than an alphanumeric input device. In one aspect the computer system may include a cursor control device coupled with the address data bus wherein the cursor control device is configured to communicate user input information and or command selections to the processor . In one aspect the cursor control device is implemented using a device such as a mouse a track ball a track pad an optical tracking device or a touch screen. The foregoing notwithstanding in one aspect the cursor control device is directed and or activated via input from the input device such as in response to the use of special keys and key sequence commands associated with the input device . In an alternative aspect the cursor control device is configured to be directed or guided by voice commands.

In one aspect the computer system further may include one or more optional computer usable data storage devices such as a storage device coupled with the address data bus . The storage device is configured to store information and or computer executable instructions. In one aspect the storage device is a storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk drive e.g. hard disk drive HDD floppy diskette compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD . Pursuant to one aspect a display device is coupled with the address data bus wherein the display device is configured to display video and or graphics. In one aspect the display device may include a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD field emission display FED plasma display or any other display device suitable for displaying video and or graphic images and alphanumeric characters recognizable to a user.

The computer system presented herein is an example computing environment in accordance with one aspect. However the non limiting example of the computer system is not strictly limited to being a computer system. For example one aspect provides that the computer system represents a type of data processing analysis that may be used in accordance with various aspects described herein. Moreover other computing systems may also be implemented. Indeed the spirit and scope of the present technology is not limited to any single data processing environment. Thus in one aspect one or more operations of various aspects of the present technology are controlled or implemented using computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. In one implementation such program modules include routines programs objects components and or data structures that are configured to perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In addition one aspect provides that one or more aspects of the present technology are implemented by utilizing one or more distributed computing environments such as where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or such as where various program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An illustrative diagram of a computer program product embodying an aspect of the present invention is depicted in . As a non limiting example the computer program product is depicted as either a floppy disk or an optical disk . However as mentioned previously the computer program product generally represents computer readable code i.e. instruction means or instructions stored on any compatible non transitory computer readable medium.

