---

title: Telephony services optimization through calling plan analysis
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide optimization of telephone services through telephone calling plan/card analysis. The least expensive rate is found for telephone calls at any given time and/or date, either through static pre-entry of data, or through dynamic querying of rates via a web-based look-up table, and places calls according to an optimized calling plan. Specifically, in a typical embodiment, an outgoing/target telephone number for an intended telephone call is captured, and a corresponding destination geographic region is identified. Based on the geographic region, a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for the telephone call is identified. This is typically accomplished by consulting at least one table (e.g., call information table) that associates (among other things) calling plans and/or calling cards with geographic regions. Once a calling plan and/or calling card is identified/selected, a corresponding set of dialing instructions will be obtained from the table and used to make/place the telephone call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124725&OS=09124725&RS=09124725
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09124725
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140106
---
The present patent document is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 035 794 filed Feb. 25 2011 entitled TELEPHONY SERVICES OPTIMIZATION THROUGH CALLING PLAN ANALYSIS the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general embodiments of the present invention relate to telephony services optimization. Specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to the identification of a best ideal calling plan e.g. based upon cost for an intended telephone call.

When calling long distance to different states and countries a user is often faced with a complex decision process. For example calling cards are often used to call foreign countries in particular since they often provide lower rates than a traditional calling plan might. The complexity of dealing with calling cards is that some cards provide rates that are best for calling one country while when calling another country there is often another calling card that provides a better rate. The issue is compounded by calling plan intricacies such as differing rates for differing times of day and or geographical areas.

Embodiments of the present invention provide optimization of telephone services through telephone calling plan card analysis. The least expensive rate is found for telephone calls at any given time and or date either through static pre entry of data or through dynamic querying of rates via a web based look up table and places calls according to an optimized calling plan. Specifically in a typical embodiment an outgoing target telephone number for an intended telephone call is captured and a corresponding destination geographic region is identified. Based on the geographic region a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for the telephone call is identified. This is typically accomplished by consulting at least one table e.g. call information table that associates among other things calling plans and or calling cards with geographic regions. Once a calling plan and or calling card is identified selected a corresponding set of dialing instructions will be obtained from the table and used to make place the telephone call.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a method for optimizing telephony services comprising capturing an outgoing telephone number from an intended telephone call identifying a geographic region to which the intended telephone call is being placed identifying a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for placing the intended telephone call based on at least one information table the at least one information table associating geographic regions with calling plans and implementing the intended telephone call according to the calling plan and a set of dialing instructions also contained in the at least one information table.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a system for optimizing telephony services comprising a bus a processor coupled to the bus and a memory medium coupled to the bus the memory medium comprising instructions to capture an outgoing telephone number from an intended telephone call identify a geographic region to which the intended telephone call is being placed identify a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for placing the intended telephone call based on at least one information table the at least one information table associating geographic regions with calling plans and implement the intended telephone call according to the calling plan and a set of dialing instructions also contained in the at least one information table.

A third aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product for optimizing telephony services the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media to capture an outgoing telephone number from an intended telephone call identify a geographic region to which the intended telephone call is being placed identify a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for placing the intended telephone call based on at least one information table the at least one information table associating geographic regions with calling plans and implement the intended telephone call according to the calling plan and a set of dialing instructions also contained in the at least one information table.

A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a method for deploying a system for optimizing telephony services comprising providing a computer infrastructure being operable to capture an outgoing telephone number from an intended telephone call identify a geographic region to which the intended telephone call is being placed identify a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for placing the intended telephone call based on at least one information table the at least one information table associating geographic regions with calling plans and implement the intended telephone call according to the calling plan and a set of dialing instructions also contained in the at least one information table.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

Illustrative embodiments will now be described more fully herein with reference to the accompanying drawings in which exemplary embodiments are shown. This disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Rather these exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of this disclosure to those skilled in the art. In the description details of well known features and techniques may be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the presented embodiments.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of this disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising or includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features regions integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features regions integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the present invention provide optimization of telephone services through telephone calling plan card analysis. The least expensive rate is found for telephone calls at any given time and or date either through static pre entry of data or through dynamic querying of rates via a web based look up table and places calls according to an optimized calling plan. Specifically in a typical embodiment an outgoing target telephone number for an intended telephone call is captured and a corresponding destination geographic region is identified. Based on the geographic region a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for the telephone call is identified. This is typically accomplished by consulting at least one table e.g. call information table that associates among other things calling plans and or calling cards with geographic regions. Once a calling plan and or calling card is identified selected a corresponding set of dialing instructions will be obtained from the table and used to make place the telephone call.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a computing node is shown. Computing node is only one example of a suitable computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

The embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a computer readable signal medium which may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein e.g. in baseband or as part of a carrier wave . Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. In general program utility or similar variants shown in performs the function of the present invention as described herein. Each of the operating systems one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules or similar variants shown in generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein. Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a consumer to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces .

Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an approach for a telephone optimization through calling plan card analysis.

Referring now to telephone optimization environment according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. As depicted an intended telephone call is placed from a first telephone also referred to as telephone system A in a first geographic location A to a second telephone B in a second geographic location B. In general telephone call will be facilitated by one or more telephone service providers carriers A B. Telephone systems A B can include implement program code and or logic A B similar to modules of utility of . Similarly service providers A B can also include implement program code and or logic A B similar to modules of utility of . It is understood that although two telephones A B and two service providers carriers A B are shown this need not be the case. Rather environment and the teachings recited herein could support any quantity thereof.

Regardless as will be further described below under environment an outgoing telephone number will be captured from intended telephone call . Based on the outgoing telephone number a geographic region B to which intended telephone call is being placed may be identified e.g. based on an area code country code or the like associated with the outgoing telephone number . A set at least one of information tables may be accessed to identify a calling plan resulting in a lowest price for placing intended telephone . To this extent the set of information tables comprise information associating geographic regions with calling plans. Once an optimal calling plan has been identified intended telephone call may be implemented connected according to the calling plan and a set of dialing instructions also contained in set of information tables .

In general the calling plan can comprise and or implement a particular calling card which would result in a lowest rate . Moreover set of information tables can be populated based upon user preferences historical data etc. As will be further described below the outgoing telephone number can be captured using at least one of the following techniques approaches logic A associated with telephone system A from which intended telephone call is made a device e.g. containing logic code implemented between telephone system A and a telephone service provider A that is supporting intended telephone call device could be located anywhere within environment between telephone A and telephone B and or logic A or B associated with a telephone service provider A or B that is supporting intended telephone call . In addition the calling plan can be identified based upon at least one of the following a set of user preferences a cost for intended telephone call historical telephone call information or an account balance associated with a user of the calling plan.

As indicated above environment allows for an outgoing telephone number for an intended telephone call to be captured. There are multiple methods that can be employed to capture the target telephone number and apply the routing logic.

Phone Integration This approach implements program logic A within telephone A e.g. before the Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF signals are sent . Long distance numbers entered can be evaluated and after applying the routing logic an alternative DTMF signal stream can be sent downstream.

End point capture Under this approach device is implemented between telephone A and the telephone service provider carrier A. This could be wired or wireless but would most often be used to accommodate existing telephones that do not have this function already incorporated. In one illustrative implementation an RJ 11 cable could run from the telephone A to device and then another RJ 11 cable could connect device to any remaining circuitry e.g. a modular wall jack . Device would monitor the DTMF tones entered at telephone A. If certain long distance telephone numbers denoted by country codes or long distance strings are detected then the logic described below can be applied within device and a second string of DTMF tones could be sent downstream.

Service Provider Integration Under this approach telephone service provider carrier A and or B could comprise routing logic A and or B and provide this as a service on their switches. In this approach a consumer could input calling card s or the like into a website which registers calling card information with the telephone service provider A and or B. The consumer could then use telephone A to place any calls. Under this embodiment a corresponding telephone number and DTMF signal stream could be sent to telephone service provider A and or B which then applies the routing logic A and or B.

Routing logic describes the approaches for determining which calling card plan to use. There are multiple factors that can affect this determination. Some of these factors include 1 user preference 2 cost 3 historical or typical call volumes and 4 individual account balance.

User preference This factor ensures that there is an element of control from the end user. It may be that some calling cards offer additional benefits airline miles restaurant discounts volume discounts etc. that are unknown to the system. For this reason it might be beneficial to utilize one card in preference to another.

Cost Cost is usually one important factor in determining the optimal calling card to use. The routing logic method described below in conjunction with will determine the cheapest method for a call to the target telephone number.

Historical call volume This factor will use logs and history tied in with the time of day day of week and other events holidays etc to associate a time with the current call in progress. It should be noted that some calls may be long in duration and this could affect which card is chosen to match this anticipated factor. Calls for User A on Thanksgiving Day to Destination 1 may for example average 120 minutes whereas a call to that same destination on the same day of the week at the same time of day might average 15 minutes any other day of the year.

Account Balance Used in conjunction with historical call volume the account balance should be considered by the logic because if a call is anticipated to be 30 minutes in length then the routing logic will favor cards that have at least 30 minutes of time left in the card s balance. Used with the anticipated call length the routing logic can select a card that won t disrupt the call or end it early.

This approach can provide an alternatively to the routing logic method described below in conjunction with . Specifically an auction methodology can reduce and or eliminate the need for calling cards and allows any service provider to bid for the consumers use on a per call basis. Instead of buying calling cards and entering them into a system the user can sign up for a service that uses any of the telephone number capture methods listed above and then simply dial an intended destination. At one of the capture points this auction method then contacts service providers that have capabilities for the destination number and places a bid for the consumer auction. The lowest priced provider will typically win. Other factors could come into play such as service provider reliability and line quality.

Volume Discounts Part of the auction parameters published by the consumer could include an intended call s duration. Some carriers will give a larger discount rate if they can expect a longer duration call.

Graduated Discounts Some telephone service providers could publish a stepped discount rate essentially saying for a b minutes Rate 1 applies c d minutes Rate 2 applies and so on. The historical call volume routing method described hereinabove could be used to target the most likely call duration and then match the lowest price.

Combinations of the auction method and the statically entered pre purchased calling cards described hereinabove could also be employed.

An example of the content of the database tables and referenced above when placing a call are shown in . Specifically shows an information table that associates counties with country codes and calling plan card preferences e.g. as set based upon user preferences or by card plan analysis performed by program of or and of the logic modules shown in . shows an information table that associates calling cards plans with dialing instructions and account balances . These tables and will be referred to collectively in the example below.

As previously mentioned when a telephone call is placed the telephone number being dialed is analyzed to determine what location is being called. This is determined by the country or area code of the number being dialed. The associated calling card plan preference for the number being dialed is determined by looking up the preference in the calling card preference table . In one embodiment the calling card preference may comprise multiple entries where a secondary preference may be used if account balance of the primary preference has been exhausted. A user could pre populate the calling card preference table with the calling card preference data based on knowledge of what it costs to call a given country. For example the rank of A C for calling India in the calling card preference table may be based on the fact that calling card A charges 0.10 per minute for calling India whereas calling card C charges 0.14 per minute. This data may be manually populated or populated automatically by the data being retrieved periodically from the calling card companies already available . The data to populate the calling card preference table can be built from the data retrieved from the calling card companies.

In another option data in such tables as shown above could be updated dynamically via an open Application Programming Interface API by service providers such that rates could be adjusted as providers rate plans changed. By doing so the user could be assured of having the most recent data available when assessing the cheapest available rate. Once the appropriate calling card to use for a given call is determined the call can be placed using dialing instructions that are preprogrammed in the telephone for the associated calling card. These dialing instructions could include pausing instructions as well as pin entry instruction. The caller is abstracted from which calling card or rate plan is being used to place the call. In the former case once a calling card account balance has been exhausted data which can be calculated in the telephone by a timer use of the card when placing a call can be stopped until the calling card is recharged.

Referring now to a first method flow diagram according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In step R the process is started and a caller makes a call in step R. In step R the country code of the number dialed is identified. Based on the geographic location of the call as determined from the country code and or area code a calling plan card preference is determined from table in step R. In step R it is determined whether the calling plan card identified has sufficient funding to make the call as determined from account balance of table . If not another card plan is chosen in step R. If so the dialing instructions corresponding thereto are determined in step R and the call is placed according thereto in step R before the process ends in step R.

Referring now to another method flow diagram according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In step S an outgoing telephone number from an intended telephone call is captured. In step S a geographic region to which the intended telephone call is being placed is identified. In step S a calling plan card resulting in a lowest price for placing the intended telephone call is identified based on at least one information table. As mentioned above the at least one information table associates geographic regions with calling plans. In step S the intended telephone call is implemented according to the calling plan card and a set of dialing instructions also contained in the at least one information table.

While shown and described herein as a telephony services optimization solution it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure to provide telephony services optimization functionality as discussed herein. To this extent the computer readable useable medium includes program code that implements each of the various processes of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprise one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or storage system e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. .

In another embodiment the invention provides a method that performs the process of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to provide telephony services optimization functionality. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as computer system that performs the processes of the invention for one or more consumers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the consumer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for providing telephony services optimization functionality. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer system can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the processes of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic device system driver for a particular computing device and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code can be provided hereunder and can include at least one processor communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include but are not limited to local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output and or other external devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening device controllers.

Network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems remote printers storage devices and or the like through any combination of intervening private or public networks. Illustrative network adapters include but are not limited to modems cable modems and Ethernet cards.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

