---

title: System for analysis and geospatial visualization
abstract: A system for analysis and geospatial visualization includes a database of human geography data, a social media data engine, a network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance, and a database of research, software code and academic publications. The system also includes an analysis engine using the data generated by the database of human geography data, the social media data engine, the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and the database of research, software code and academic publications to identify information. A graphical user interface displays the information identified by the analysis engine, the graphical user interface providing a mapping centric focus applying the information identified by the analysis engine within the context of a geospatial environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594771&OS=09594771&RS=09594771
owner: 
number: 09594771
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140116
---
A wealth of knowledge is available throughout the electronic world. However the problem now confronting both government and industry is how to most effectively take advantage of the ever accumulating information that is readily available.

The present invention attempts to address this problem through the provision of a system analyzing both dynamic and static information and presenting the information in a geospatial data display and visualization that enables real time event discovery and recognition of societal mood and trends.

The present invention provides for analysis and geospatial visualization with socio cultural observation and reporting portal for intelligence and operations networks. The present system combines human geography data on over countries of the world with real time geo enabled social media feeds as well as with local insight of an informal network of NGOs Non Governmental Organizations local polling and academia providers and socio cultural SMEs Small and Medium Sized Enterprises with roughly 45 000 correspondents in the network. The present system enables real time event discovery recognition of a societal mood within a specific place languages spoken and geography anticipatory warning of strategic trends and or early warning of potential societal trigger events. The specialized data developed and made available through the present system fills gaps that organizations and contractors of the intelligence community have been unable to close using traditional intelligence research and analysis methods.

With this in mind it is an object of the present invention invention to provide a system for analysis and geospatial visualization. The system includes a database of human geography data a social media data engine a network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and a database of research software code and academic publications. The system also includes an analysis engine using data generated by the database of human geography data the social media data engine the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and the database of research software code and academic publications to identify information. Finally the system includes a graphical user interface displaying the information identified by the analysis engine the graphical user interface providing a mapping centric focus applying the information identified by the analysis engine within the context of a geospatial environment.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the database of human geography data includes human geography data on countries of the world including colonial archives NGO reports related academic publications web based sources and other sources of geo spatial data.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the social media data engine includes data from international and local social media engines.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the data includes data gathered from streaming APIs.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the data includes data gathered from static APIs.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance is a passive access and information platform sharing information collected with organizations involved in disaster relief and humanitarian aid.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the database of research software code and academic publications identifies and collates a relationship between individuals research and organizations.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the analysis engine includes a plurality of tools allowing users to optimize the system.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the tools allowing users to optimize the system are selected from the group consisting of a federated text search a natural language processor a geo cluster detection algorithm a wealth detection algorithm a dominance estimation algorithm an emerging trend detection algorithm a partner analysis module and combinations thereof.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the analysis engine ingests real time space time points events and several sub processes to detect and identify statistically significant spatio temporal clusters.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the analysis engine ingests social media event data containing geographic and temporal attributes.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the analysis engine plots ingested space time points in four dimensions establishing an observed space time study area.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the observed space time study area is used to conduct simulations which create theoretical random experiments to test a significance of an observed space time pattern.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a system wherein the analysis engine uses a greedy deletion algorithm to calculate a minimum spanning tree for n to 1 experimental values in each simulation in order to establish experimental confidence intervals used to test observed values.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system wherein when the experimental confidence intervals are established observed space time point patterns are tested at each n value from n to 1 in order to test all potential cluster sizes within a temporal cross section.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description when viewed in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which set forth certain embodiments of the invention.

The detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein. It should be understood however that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore the details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for teaching one skilled in the art how to make and or use the invention.

The present system for analysis and geospatial visualization provides a socio cultural observation and reporting portal for intelligence and operations networks. The present system combines human geography data on over countries of the world with real time geo enabled social media feeds as well as with local insight of an informal network of NGOs Non Governmental Organizations local polling and academia providers and socio cultural SMEs Small and Medium Sized Enterprises with roughly 45 000 correspondents in the network.

The present system enables real time event discovery recognition of a societal mood within a specific place languages spoken and geography anticipatory warning of strategic trends and or early warning of potential societal trigger events. The specialized data developed and made available through the present system fills gaps that organizations and contractors of the intelligence community have been unable to close using traditional intelligence research and analysis methods.

As will be fully appreciated based upon the following disclosure the present system includes powerful open and gray source harvesting of engines algorithms that are capable of ingesting over 250 000 sources of socio cultural and human geography data on a daily basis. In addition the platform of the present system is customized for tactical and strategic analysis of harvested real time social media data for pattern of life targeting and other intelligence purposes.

The present system also provides federated search capability namely information retrieval technology that allows the simultaneous search of multiple searchable resources which enables seamless geospatial textual and image based data discovery and recovery. The system further provides revolutionary predictive analytics for global social instability forecasting. Finally the present system human geography library maintains a database including plug and play modules for countries of the world.

As will be fully appreciated based upon the following disclosure the present system allows for the publishing layering and uploading of client and other partner provided geospatial data in a user friendly environment. The system s features include dynamic display and download of geospatial data support for .KML .KMZ and .SHP files Keyhole Markup Language .KML or .KMZ zipped .KML files or .SHP a shapefile namely a popular geospatial vector data format for geographic information system software which is an XML notation for expressing geographic annotation and visualization within Internet based two dimensional maps and three dimensional Earth browsers. dynamic upload capability support for geo rectified .XLS .KML .KMZ and .SHP files multiple basemap and imagery base layer options support for adding customized base layers and one click map export capability.

With the foregoing in mind and with reference to the various figures the present invention provides a system for harvested data analysis and geospatial visualization. As shown in the system includes a database of human geography data a social media data engine a network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and a research database of research software code and academic publications . An analysis engine harvests and uses the data generated by the database of human geography data the social media data engine the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and the research database of research software code and academic publications to identify information. The information identified by the analysis engine is displayed upon a graphical user interface . The graphical user interface provides a mapping centric focus applying the information identified by the analysis engine within the context of a geospatial environment.

Considering first the various data sources the database of human geography data is composed of human geography data on 140 countries of the world. This data has been acquired collected catalogued and geo enabled for the past 10 years. This geospatial human geography library incorporates data resources from 1800s until now. It incorporates data from British French Portuguese Russian Belgian and German colonial archives incorporating over 200 years of continuous observations of cultural officers intelligence operatives and tribal advisers in areas from Afghanistan to Indonesia. The database of human geography data also includes colonial archives NGO reports related academic publications web based sources and other sources of geo spatial data. Furthermore it includes current data on 13 NGA recognized layers of human geography including water land ownership significant events health facilities and other important dimensions of human activity. This fusion of historical and current data provides analysts the ability to seamlessly identify root causes of conflict recognize reasons for leadership change and sources of power within a particular society either in a highly urbanized or in a tribal setting.

The social media data engine incorporates data from international and local social media engines including streaming APIs application programming interfaces such as YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram etc. and static APIs such as Topsy LinkedIn OSM Wikimapia Panaramio WikiMedia etc. Using such harvested information the present system allows for real time situational awareness of geospatial and contextual trends anywhere in the world. In addition analysts can use the social media data engine to in real time identify infrastructure places and events that are important to the locals. The social media data engine is powered by a number of powerful algorithms that allow recognition whether a crowd is being formed or whether a particular infrastructure may get overwhelmed in the event of a major medical crisis such as a flu outbreak or pandemic.

The network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance is a passive access and information platform sharing with over 60 NGOs involved in disaster relief and humanitarian aid assistance in over 150 countries of the world totaling over 40 000 individuals. This network provides unique and on the ground perspectives of routine and crisis perspectives of communities in need. As a matter of routine they conduct baseline and need assessments of affected communities and maintain links to local formal and informal leadership within areas affected by disaster.

Finally the database of research software code and academic publications identifies research software code and academic publication in the open and gray domain that is written material that is informally published . For example this database obtains information Academic DIY Networks Tech DIY Open Source Code Patent Databases Investment Records and Acquisition Databases. This component constantly scans academic and technical DIY research exchange and sharing networks 4.3 million members for new technical code unique research and network participant information. It identifies and collates the relationship between individuals research and organizations identifying emerging technical and academic innovation leaders as well as unique perspectives that are potentially never going to be published.

As briefly discussed above the analysis engine uses the data generated by the database of human geography data the social media data engine the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and the database of research software code and academic publications to identify and harvest information. More particularly the analysis engine provides for a variety of tools allowing users to optimize the system to suit their specific needs. Included amongst the tools are

These tools which may collectively be referred to as the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm ingests real time space time points events and uses several sub processes outlined below to detect and identify statistically significant spatio temporal clusters. In its current state the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm ingests social media event data containing geographic and temporal attributes. While the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm is disclosed herein as ingesting social media event data containing geographic and temporal attributes it is appreciated the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm has the ability to ingest any type of spatio temporal point data. The current rate of space time point ingestion is approximately 1000 points per minute using a standard desktop computer.

In order to detect spatio temporal clusters the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm plots ingested space time points in four 4 dimensions establishing an observed space time study area. The observed space time study area boundary is used to conduct thousands of Monte Carlo simulations which create theoretical random experiments used to test the significance of the observed space time pattern. It is appreciated a Monte Carlo simulation refers to a class of computational algorithms relying upon repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results. A greedy deletion algorithm is used to calculate the minimum spanning tree for n to 1 experimental values in each simulation in order to establish experimental confidence intervals used to test observed values.

Once the experimental minimum spanning tree confidence intervals are established the observed space time point patterns are tested at each n value from n to 1 in order to test all potential cluster sizes within the temporal cross section. Because the minimum spanning tree calculation uses all point values within the tree the algorithm is able to detect irregularly shaped clusters in contrast to traditional cluster detection statistics which typically use concentric circles or quadrats to test for significance.

In addition to detecting spatio temporal clusters using raw space time event data the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm also conducts population normalized spatio temporal cluster detection using global population estimates at a 700 m by 700 m spatial resolution. Observed values are normalized and scaled using the estimated ambient population within the spatial grid cell area that the point lies in. The resulting space time event pattern is then tested for statistical significance as detailed above. Similarly detection is also conducted using historical observation normalization. This normalization process uses observed historical data collected and summarized at hourly intervals using the same spatial resolution as the population normalization above. The current observed space time data is normalized and scaled using the spatial grid cell and hourly time area that the point lies in. The resulting space time event pattern is also tested for spatial significance using the greedy deletion algorithm described above. Upon completion the spatio temporal cluster detection algorithm returns all significant clusters to the social media analysis engine which can then alert the user to the existence and location of cluster within 30 seconds of the occurrence of the events.

The spatio temporal cluster detection algorithms employed in conjunction with these tools of the analysis engine allow for the harvesting and analysis of historical and streaming data from social media sources such as TWITTER FOURSQUARE YOUTUBE INSTAGRAM FACEBOOK and others. As such the analysis engine addresses five types of social media data types 1 demographic 2 psychographic 3 behavioral 4 location 5 intention. On a monthly basis approximately 5 million disparate social interactions are harvested by the analysis engine from individual users of these systems including as described in the third party provider e.g. TWITTER end user agreement demographic age gender inferred income self identified location psychographic values attitudes interests lifestyles behavioral past activities actions baseline that may indicate future intent i.e. marching to a protest area purchasing history and location physical location or geo inferred location of an individual groups of individuals .

This data as well as associated derived patterns e.g. individual s aggregate favorite destinations micro paths business venue preferences content based geographic areas of concentration are stored in a database in particular a MongoDB an open source cross platform NoSQL document oriented database system.

The analysis engine focuses on three main types of patterns 1 spatial patterns associated with users 2 content driven patterns associated with activities and preferences and 3 language or linguistic patterns associated with the language spoken by the person initiating the tweeted message. Specifically spatial algorithms of the analysis engine automatically identify a clustering of individuals at any urban area of the world based of geo enabled twitter data b the language spoken by individuals c auto identification of a particular area as a popular spot based of individuals aggregated activity and d aggregate snapshots of individuals potential movement pathways based on known expected baseline activity. The content based analysis engine component focuses on identifying and geospatial displaying user intent affinity for ideological action group i.e. hate speech language spoken and ideological affinity for a specific terrorist political religious group.

In practice the present system empowers a user to acquire investigate and analyze large amounts of data from multiple sources in one web based environment. To accomplish this the present system implements and employs algorithms to query unique data repositories databases of both static and dynamic data and geo spatially display the results of such queries.

Additionally an editing function is available within the software that allows users to input update and delete data. Users employ the editing functions within an attribute table to select and filter selected attribute rows and geospatially display selected information in the mapping view. Users can further export selected data as csv and or ESRI shapefile data types. The editing function also allows users to create a new layer from selected data and publish it within their project as well as immediately share it with other authorized users. This interactive ability allows multiple worldwide users to share information in real time in the same environment.

The information identified by the analysis engine is displayed upon a graphical user interface . The graphical user interface provides a mapping centric focus applying the information identified by the analysis engine within the context of a geospatial environment.

In a typical use case and with reference to a user logs into the present system via a password restricted web based interface which can be built in AdobeFlex migrating to HTML5 which is found on the Internet at https geospatial.courageservices.com. Once logged into the present system the user has the ability to drag and drop data from multiple data repositories to begin building a map of a particular place of interest country province city etc. . These layers include foundation layers like infrastructure and place names from the database of human geography data the network of information concerning disaster relief and humanitarian assistance and the database of research software code and academic publications to identify information via a static application programming interface API . Attention is directed to where the mapping tools are shown. As is appreciated these mapping tools allow for the addition of known information relating to the maps of interest. For example it might be desirable to add information relating to Built up areas or Mosque density to the map of specific area of interest. Once such information is determined to be a desirable addition to the map the user need only drag and drop the icon to incorporate such information into the map being considered.

A user researching recent activity in Egypt might identify a base map of Egypt for display upon the graphical user interface of the present system . In conjunction with this base map the user may incorporate additional layers of information relating to road locations mass transit lines water ways hotels airports and hospitals. All of this information will then be simultaneously viewable using the graphical user interface . As those skilled in the art will appreciate this relates to static information that is well established information that is not likely to be changing in the near future.

Additionally through dynamic APIs a user is also able to add near real time data by extracting and visualizing social media from a variety of sources Twitter YouTube Instagram etc. obtained from the social media data engine . As those skilled in the art will appreciate the data available from such dynamic sources of information provides much more than textual photographic and or video data. Rather the dynamic data from these sources provides geographic information time information as well as infrastructure and action of interest. This process allows analysts to correlate temporal and spatial patterns associated with action of interest in real time. This dynamic data is then integrated with the static data previously discussed.

For example and with reference back to the use of the graphical user interface to study recent events in Egypt the dynamic information is integrated in a geographical accurate manner within the base map and in relation to noted road locations mass transit lines water ways hotels airports and hospitals. It is appreciated that such dynamic information might be designated by flags positioned at various locations around the base map to designate the geographic location from which the dynamic information is originating.

Once a user has built their unique analytic environment integrating static information with dynamic information additional tools can be deployed to query parse and add information as required. For example and once again considering the example of studying events in Egypt the user might wish to only visualize upon the graphical user interface dynamic information relating to injuries or deaths. In such a situation the underlying algorithms of the present system are set to filter out all dynamic information other than that relating to injuries or deaths. Still further the information relating to injuries or deaths might be displayed upon the graphical user interface with designations relating to the timing and or the course of events over a particular period of time.

With this in mind it is appreciated the unique set of tools employs algorithms and a federated search capability to provide additional background and context to the geospatial data.

For example and in accordance with another example a user can monitor an Influenza outbreak via chatter on social media and dynamically calculate the distance of individuals infected and their proximity to nearby hospitals and clinics. The user is then able to identify which hospitals and clinics may be overrun with patients and potentially exhaust supplies of medication. Such harvested information enables the user to timely supply the hospital or clinic with needed treatments and medicines to combat the outbreak. The present system also introduces components that allow the user to establish thresholds for activity crowds forming police activity etc. and receive notifications via a web interface or on mobile devices.

By way of example and with reference to an exemplary use of the present system is disclosed. It should however be appreciated that the system may be implemented in various manners and for various purposes. As such the underlying displays and filtering criteria may be altered to suit a user s specific needs.

Considering the previous discussion and once the user is logged onto the present system the user is provided with the option of selecting from various projects. As discussed above the user may be interested in studying current events occurring within a particular geographic area for this example Egypt. If such is the case the user may click upon the Egypt project see . Once the Egypt project is activated the user is provided with the option of either viewing a dashboard of relevant information or viewing a map of the events with both static information and dynamic information superimposed thereupon.

Considering first the dashboard display provided by the graphical user interface as shown with reference to the user may select amongst four different panels presenting information in different manners. In the upper left corner panel a sequential listing of Tweets identified from the geographic region of interest that is Egypt is provided. If the user identifies a Tweet of interest he or she may expand the display to reveal the specific geographic location at which the Tweet originated see . If the user wishes to obtain more information regarding the individual who made the Tweet the user may click upon the user s name and find detailed information regarding the individual based upon information available from the social media source in the present case Twitter see . This information includes associates of the tweeter and a specific timeline of Tweets made by the individual. Still further the user may wish to track the movements of the Twitter account holder in which case the user simply clicks upon track movements and a map of the various locations at which the user made different Tweets is shown see . Further investigation may occur through clicking upon the various flags to identify the specific Tweet made at a specific location see . Still further the map may be altered to show via graphical representations the number of Tweets made at specific locations see .

In the event the user wishes to identify information via the map function this function is simply clicked upon and a map of the geographic location of interest is shown as depicted in . As is well appreciated by those skilled in the art the map may be zoomed in upon to reveal specific locations and Tweets occurring at those locations. For example and with reference to a Tweet by super daily was made at the specific location noted within Cairo Egypt. If further information regarding the tweeter is desired one may simply click upon the name and immediately move to the individual s Twitter page see .

Referring now to and returning to the dashboard and as discussed above the dashboard includes various panels providing different displays relating to the information gathered in accordance with the present system . One display panel that is the display in the top right corner identifies top tags utilized within the geographic region of interest. For example and if a user wished to identify all individuals using the tag summer the user may click upon this tag to reveal an additional dashboard focused upon tweeters utilizing the tag summer with further breakdowns relating to this usage see .

In addition and with reference to the dashboard provides graphical representations regarding the number of Tweets made along a specific timeline see panel and the cluster of Tweets made along a specific timeline see panel . As shown with reference to these graphical representations may be focused upon by simply highlighting specific timeframes therein.

With the foregoing in mind the present invention provides wide ranging capabilities to suit a variety of specific needs. In summary the present system provides for the dynamic display and download of geospatial data with support for .KML .KMZ and .SHP files. The present system further allows for Drag and Drop addition of geospatial data using the graphical user interface support for real time and near real time data feeds and social media data feeds and analysis tools. Dynamic data upload capability is further facilitated by the present system. The dynamic data upload includes fixed and mobile data input and support for geo rectified .XLS .KML .KMZ and .SHP files. The system also provides for socio cultural and human geography document and text search capability with multiple basemap and imagery base layer options using supports adding customized base layers. The system also offers Single Click map export capability supporting production and dissemination. The system is further deployable upon a wide variety of computer systems including but not limited to desktop system laptops tablets and smartphones.

Given the wide ranging capabilities of the present system it is well suited for application in the Intelligence and Defense industry for situational awareness integrated tactical support to the warfighter social unrest and instability warning diplomatic security and cyber activity monitoring. It is also appreciated the present system may be put to good use in conjunction with medical assistance and disaster relief in particular in conjunction with biological outbreak warning and tracking infrastructure assessment and monitoring and population risk assessment. The present system also finds use in domestic application law enforcement in conjunction with situational awareness reporting and event notification and cross precinct data sharing. Still further the present system is contemplated for use in various other commercial applications including but not limited to biological outbreak warning and tracking retail trend analysis product placement financial transaction visualization logistics and transport planning and routing and risk management.

While the preferred embodiments have been shown and described it will be understood that there is no intent to limit the invention by such disclosure but rather is intended to cover all modifications and alternate constructions falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

