---

title: Detection of conductive material in a thin film
abstract: Provided are products used to detect and methods for detecting conductive materials in the presence of non-conductive materials, including non-conductive materials having dielectric properties. Specifically, the product is a conductive thin film detector, which is, preferably, a hand-held device designed to detect the presence of metal in, on, or under an object. This detection occurs even in the presence of non-conductive materials and other nearby conductive materials on objects that are not being tested. The device preferably includes: a power source, such as a battery; a method for activation, such as a press button; the necessary components to send and receive a radio frequency, e.g., a radio frequency generator, an antenna, and a radio frequency detector; and an indicator, such as a light or a meter, to, for example, indicate the strength of the radio frequency signal received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09383439&OS=09383439&RS=09383439
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Dept. of Justice
number: 09383439
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The invention described herein was invented by employees of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The field of the present invention relates to novel methods for detecting and products used to detect the presence of conductive materials including in the presence of non conductive materials wherein the non conductive materials may have dielectric properties. In addition the methods and products of the invention detect the presence of specific conductive materials even in the presence of other conductive materials nearby.

Conductive materials include metals electrolytes and plasmas as well as certain non metallics such as graphite and conductive polymers. Often conductive materials are formed into a thin film and coated onto glass or ceramics. For example conductive thin films are often added to windows to save energy by transmitting visible light and at the same time reflecting infrared energy. Conductive thin films can even be used to electronically defrost window panes. In addition to saving energy conductive thin films block ultraviolet rays provide shatter resistance and when appropriately tinted provide privacy in for example a vehicle or other enclosure.

Thin films generally contain a polyester base made up of at least one layer. More often the base contains multiple polyester layers bonded together. The polyester material serves multiple purposes such as acting as a sunlight barrier and reflecting heat.

In addition to the polyester layer or layers conductive thin films used on windows in vehicles offices and houses contain other components. For example a mounting adhesive may be added to the side of the film next to the window glass and the other side may have a scratch resistant hardcoat. In addition if dye technology is used to add the thin film to window glass then the polyester layer contains a dye which absorbs heat.

An alternative method used to add a conductive thin film to window glass involves deposition technology which requires vacuum coating and metalizing. Another method known as sputtering involves advanced metalizing. Both deposition and sputtering technologies require deposition of a layer of metallic particles onto the polyester base. Yet another method combines metallic particles and dyes to create a hybrid thin film.

There are many different formulations for thin films and these formulations fall into one of two categories metallic or non metallic. Because there are non metallic thin films that appear metallic and metallic thin films that appear non metallic a person cannot determine from visual observation whether a thin film is metallic. However such a determination is necessary in certain areas such as antenna performance. For example antennas are often used in vehicles that have tinted windows or in office buildings with tinted windows wherein the tinting is in the form of a thin film. If the tinting is metallic it will severely degrade the performance of an antenna. If the tinting is non metallic it will have very little effect on the performance of an antenna.

Metal detection has been used to discern the location of objects in various situations. Traditional uses include locating metallic objects of interest in soil or sand and detecting weapons at security screening locations. The common methods used in metal detection are the beat frequency oscillator BFO very low frequency VLF and pulse induction PI methods which all have a broad sensing area.

Beat frequency oscillator BFO based metal detection methods employ two coils a search coil and a reference coil which are placed at a distance from one another such that they do not interfere with one another. When metal objects come close enough to the search coil to detune it and change its frequency the difference between that frequency and the reference coil s frequency creates a tone indicating the presence of metal. Thus BFO methods rely on a tone that varies depending on a metallic object s size and distance away from the search coil. It is the simplest method but the least sensitive to specific objects especially in conductive surroundings. For example if BFO equipment is used to detect whether metal is incorporated into a thin film coated on a car window the metal of the car would dominate the response from the BFO equipment and cause a high false detection rate.

The very low frequency VLF based metal detection methods are similar to the BFO methods in theory of operation. The VLF methods rely on co locating send and receive coils. Although VLF methods offer improved sensitivity and discrimination between metals and dielectrics when compared to BFO based methods they rely on the detuning effect of metallic or dielectric objects on or near the coils which are operated at relatively low frequencies. Thus the presence of a nearby large metal object such as a car would cause a high false detection rate.

Pulse induction PI based methods use a single coil to transmit and receive frequencies. The coil is charged and then discharged relatively quickly. A receiver listens for a reflected ringing signal from metallic objects in the surrounding environment. Again however large metallic objects in relatively close proximity to the object being measured would generate a high false detection rate.

These standard methods of metal detection rely on detecting a large change in the parameters of the circuit components when approaching a small metal object thus they are designed to operate in mostly non metallic environments to avoid the potential of large metal objects swamping the desired signal and causing a high false detection rate.

There is a need for products that detect and methods of detecting conductivity in a material regardless of whether that material is in the vicinity of other conductive materials. There is also a need for products that detect and methods of detecting conductivity in a material regardless of whether that material is in the vicinity of non conductive materials including non conductive materials having dielectric properties. More specifically there is a need for products that detect and methods of detecting conductivity in a thin film formulation regardless of the other materials in the vicinity of the thin film.

More specifically there is a need for a small hand held battery operated device that can identify whether window tinting or other type of thin film is metallic or non metallic especially since known methods of detecting conductive thin films do not discriminate between for example the metallic film on a car window and the metal on the car.

To meet this need the present invention is directed to products and methods for the detection of conductive materials in for example a thin film formulation even in the presence of non conductive materials having dielectric properties or in the presence of conductive materials that are not being tested. The electromagnetic interactions of the conductive materials in the material being tested are detected using a device comprising electromagnetic equipment such as a power source radio frequency RF generator RF detector and wide bandwidth i.e. wideband antenna. The novel single frequency technique used in the preferred process provides information to the operator of the device about conductivity in the object being tested yet ignores the properties of glass plastic or other non conductive material surrounding the object of interest and also ignores nearby conductive objects. Thus detection of the presence of a conductor in a thin film formulation coating a car window is not affected by the dielectric properties of the automotive glass or by the conductive characteristics of the metal on the car.

To generate such accurate detection capabilities the invention employs higher radio frequencies than used in previous metal detection techniques. The higher frequencies condense an antenna s near field region thus allowing for less interference from surrounding metallic objects and facilitate the use of a smaller antenna which in turn contributes toward packaging the inventive detector into a small hand held unit for easy deployment and use.

In specific embodiments the invention employs a wideband antenna which prevents the antenna from significantly detuning in the presence of a dielectric material. The dielectric material does cause a change in antenna tuning but the antenna bandwidth is sufficiently broad such that any change in antenna performance is negligible. Thus the dielectric material has little effect on the wideband antenna which reflects little energy back toward the RF detector and yields high values of return loss.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a conductivity detector comprising a power source such as a battery an RF generator an RF directional coupler a wideband antenna an RF detection circuit and an operator interface or display. The RF directional coupler may be an RF circulator referred to herein as a circulator or an RF circulator or any circuit that routes energy reflecting back from the antenna to a different port. The RF detection circuitry and the operator interface or display may be selected based on what is well known in the art.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a metallic conductivity detector comprising a power source an RF generator an RF directional coupler a wideband antenna a diode or integrated circuit RF detector and a display indicator. Additional components include but are not limited to an operational amplifier a current mirror and a threshold detector if the indicator is an off on indicator.

The RF circulator RF detector and indicator together reduce the measured data to a yes or no status regarding the presence of conductive material for easy interpretation by the operator. Thus the invention provides an instant response to the operator as to the presence or absence of conductive material.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a conductive thin film sensor for electromagnetically sensing conductive materials surrounded by other conductive materials comprising a power source in series with an actuator switch in series with an RF oscillator and an RF amplifier in series with an RF circulator with the first clockwise port in series with a wideband antenna and the second clockwise port in series with a termination load in series with an RF detector in series with a metal detection indicator.

In an alternative embodiment the RF detector comprises a diode in series with a capacitor and resistor in parallel then in series with a termination load in series with ground or the RF detector comprises an integrated circuit assembly which rectifies the RF signal and outputs a voltage in proportion to the radio signal strength.

In another alternative embodiment the detection indicator is a light emitting diode LED or a meter movement.

The invention is also directed to methods for detecting conductive material enclosed in or in the vicinity of non conductive dielectric materials comprising a employing a system comprising a single source of radio frequency energy coupled to an RF directional router coupled to a wideband antenna and an RF detector and a signal detection indicator b generating a single RF signal from the single source of radio frequency energy c guiding the signal from the source via the RF directional router to an antenna port d radiating the RF signal via the wideband antenna of sufficient bandwidth e guiding the signal from the wideband antenna to the RF detection circuit via the RF directional router f converting the RF signal via the RF detection circuit to a signal strength indicator viewable by the operator and g assessing based on the indicator whether conductive material is present.

In an alternative embodiment the RF directional coupler may be an RF circulator assembly or an RF directional coupler assembly and the RF detection indicator may be a viewable meter movement or a viewable illuminated indicator representing signal strength.

In another alternative embodiment in the method of detecting electrically conductive material enclosed in or in the vicinity of non conductive dielectric material the RF detection circuit feeds a comparator for detection of signal strength above a set threshold.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

This specification discloses embodiments that incorporate features of the invention. The disclosed embodiments merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

The embodiments described and references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments example etc. indicate that the embodiments described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is understood that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the relevant art s to effectuate such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

The invention provides methods of detecting and products used to detect the presence of a conductive thin film material on or in a material such as an optically transparent material such as a window even in the vicinity of nearby metallic materials or nearby non conductive materials including non conductive materials having dielectric properties. The inventive methods and products can be used to determine if a manufacturer of for example automotive office building retail or residential windows applied a conductive thin film treatment to its windows and if so where on the windows the thin film is located. Such information can be used to assess the quality of the windows and their ability to block ultraviolet rays provide shatter resistance and when appropriately tinted provide privacy. In addition the inventive methods and products can be used to discern the viability of establishing a radio frequency path through a window before expending much effort on setting up an antenna.

In a preferred embodiment the invention is directed to conductive thin film detectors and methods of use. Preferably the detector is relatively small and in the form of a hand held device designed to detect the presence of conductive materials in close proximity to or with non conductive materials. Examples of such non conductive materials include but are not limited to glass plastic and porcelain and other materials having dielectric properties. In addition when the inventive detector is used metallic objects nearby an object being tested do not generate false readings.

In another preferred embodiment the inventive detector is small enough to hold in one hand and is battery operated. Preferably the battery is small enough for the detector to be hand held but strong enough to supply sufficient power to operate the detector for at least about one half hour before the battery needs to be replaced. The detector is preferably designed to minimize false detection rates while with precision identify a thin film as metallic or non metallic even in the presence of materials with dielectric properties or of nearby materials with conductive properties.

Metallic thin film can be detected using a concept in antenna theory referred to as the voltage standing wave ratio VSWR . The VSWR is an indicator of the amount of power sent to an antenna versus how much power reflects back to a transmitter. Return loss is another widely used way to express the same characteristics. The amount of power reflected is large when the antenna is not tuned to the frequency of the transmitter. If a wideband antenna is tuned to the frequency of a transmitter the introduction of a dielectric such as glass near the antenna near field will have very little effect on the power reflected at the antenna. If a metallic conductive surface is placed near the antenna the antenna power reflection will significantly increase indicating the presence of metal. The effect of the metal on the antenna is significantly reduced upon separation of more than a couple of inches as illustrated in 

Although in theory the principles of this invention function at any radio frequency the dimensions of a hand held embodiment of the invention constrain the choice of electromagnetic wavelengths between short enough to yield a half wavelength antenna sufficiently small to fit into a hand held unit and long enough to ensure that the material being tested is within a quarter wavelength of the antenna. Thus the circuit needed to implement the detection system preferably includes an RF oscillator an example of which is shown in with a radio frequency between about 900 MHz and about 3000 MHz. A frequency below about 900 MHz has a longer wavelength that requires a larger wideband antenna and thus a larger hand held unit. Longer wavelengths may also interact with nearby conductors not associated with the material being tested making it more difficult to accurately target the material being tested. A frequency above about 3000 MHz has a shorter wavelength and thus less detection range which makes detection of conductive films through thick or multi pane windows for example more difficult. The final choice of wavelength and thus frequency represents a compromise between the size of the hand held device and detection range. One specific frequency may not cover all testing situations thus the skilled artisan may tailor the frequency and wavelength for specific testing purposes and environments.

In view of the preferred frequency range the inventive methods and products rely on short wavelength electromagnetic fields EMF and their interactions with conductive objects to discern the presence of a conductor. The use of short wavelength EMFs focuses the detection region on the object being tested with less influence from nearby metal objects. Other magnetic field detection methods are more sensitive to nearby conductors making their use for thin film testing prone to false detection. The use of higher frequencies and shorter wavelengths in the inventive methods and products facilitate a smaller near field region thus reducing interference from metallic objects in close proximity and allowing for the detection of conductive materials contained within on or under dielectric materials. The detuning effect of the dielectric material on the antenna in the inventive detector does not generate false positives.

As illustrated in components of the inventive device include but are not limited to a power source such as a battery USB cable cigarette lighter power cord or wall wart plug an activation mechanism such as a press button switch or other on off mechanism the necessary components to send and receive a radio frequency e.g. transmitter such as an RF generator wideband antenna and RF detector and an indicator such as a light or a meter to for example indicate whether a radio frequency was received and if desired and depending on the indicator the strength of the radio frequency received. An RF circulator is also a preferable component so that the device needs only a single antenna. A directional RF splitter can function in place of the RF circulator as shown in . The small number of parts required to build the detector facilitates low cost manufacturing.

Additional preferable components include but are not limited to a load as shown in and as shown in as a 50 ohm load resistor R an amplifier AR as shown in and and a threshold comparator U as shown in . In addition in some embodiments the inventive detector circuitry includes but is not limited to one or more diodes one or more capacitors and one or more resistors as illustrated in and . Circuitry design and selection of required circuit components for known circuit functions are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

An RF oscillator U and surrounding components comprise a single frequency oscillator sine wave source. Another capacitor C bypasses internal circuitry of the RF oscillator U to common ground. The voltage divider comprised of a resistor R in series with 5 volts dc and a resistor R in series with common ground sets a steady TUNE voltage applied to the TUNE input of the RF oscillator U thereby setting the frequency of oscillation at a fixed value. Another resistor R in series with 5 volts dc sets the RF oscillator U into the operative state.

Two capacitors C C each in series with ground bypass the 5 volts dc power applied to the power input pins and VCC VCC of the RF oscillator U . Pins and of the RF oscillator U connect to common ground. The RF sine wave output of the RF oscillator U feeds an RF amplifier AR . A capacitor C in series with common ground the printed circuit board materials and board trace dimensions compensates for impedance irregularities of output pin of the RF oscillator U and pin of the RF amplifier AR . Three additional capacitors C C C which are in parallel then in series with common ground in series with an inductor filter L apply 5 volt dc power to pin of the RF amplifier AR . Pin of the RF amplifier AR connects to common ground. Another capacitor C in series with common ground the printed circuit board materials and board trace dimensions compensates for impedance irregularities of output pin of the RF amplifier AR a series capacitor C and pin of the circulator HY . The series capacitor C prevents the 5 volt dc power supply voltage from flowing to the circulator HY . The circulator HY routes power input from any pin to the next clockwise pin.

The RF sine wave from the RF amplifier AR is applied to pin of the circulator HY which routes the sine wave energy to pin of the circulator HY . The RF energy from pin of the circulator HY flows to a wideband antenna E . Any reflected energy from the wideband antenna E flows to pin of the circulator HY . Due to the clockwise flow through the circulator HY the energy from the wideband antenna E flowing into pin of the circulator HY flows to pin of the circulator HY in series with a resistor R . The resistor R properly terminates the transmission line between pin of the circulator HY and the pad of the resistor R into its characteristic impedance. The voltage induced on the resistor R is applied to the diode detector D in series with another capacitor C in series with ground. The diode detector D rectifies the voltage such that only the positive halves of the RF ac voltage on the resistor R pass which results in a continuous positive voltage pulse stream. The capacitor C filters the positive voltage pulse stream to common ground yielding a steady dc voltage in proportion to the RF energy from pin of the circulator HY . The junction of the diode detector D and the capacitor C is in series with another resistor R in series with common ground. This resistor R ensures that the capacitor C discharges when the voltage on the other resistor R wanes.

The dc voltage from the diode detector D the capacitor C and the resistor R flows to the positive input pin of an operational amplifier U . Another capacitor C in series with common ground and connected to pin of the operational amplifier U bypasses the 5 volt dc supply to the operational amplifier U . Pin of the operational amplifier U connects to common ground. The inverting input pin pin of the operational amplifier U is in series with a resistor R in series with common ground. Another resistor R is connected between the output pin pin and inverting input pin pin of the operational amplifier U . These two resistors R R together configure the operational amplifier U into a non inverting voltage amplifier. The voltage on pin of the operational amplifier U appears at pin of the operational amplifier U .

The amplified voltage from the operational amplifier U is then applied to another resistor R in series with the collector and base of a transistor Q in parallel with the base of a second transistor Q . The emitter of the first transistor Q is in series with a resistor R in series with common ground. The previous resistor R changes the voltage from the operational amplifier U to a current. 5 volts dc is in series with another resistor R in series with a second LED DS in series with the collector of the second transistor Q . The emitter of the second transistor Q is in series with another resistor R in series with common ground.

The current from the resistor R is applied to the two transistors Q Q arranged in the current mirror configuration. The current from this resistor R flows into the collector of the first transistor Q and the bases of both transistors Q Q . The resistors R R connect the emitters of the two transistors Q Q to common ground and compensate for manufacturing variances of the two transistors Q Q . The collector of the second transistor Q sinks a current proportional to the current flowing through the resistor R . The current through the second transistor Q flows though the second LED DS and the resistor R . This resistor R sets an upper limit to the current flowing through the second LED DS . The current flowing through the second LED DS illuminates in proportion to the current value. The light intensity of the second LED DS is proportional to the voltage appearing on the resistor R which is proportional to the power reflected from the wideband antenna E giving the operator an indication of the power reflected from the wideband antenna E .

The circuitry of embodiments of the inventive detector is not limited to the description above and the illustration in . The description above and are directed to one embodiment. One of ordinary skill in the art will be able to complete a circuit with the necessary components to achieve the characteristics of the inventive detectors.

The antenna in the inventive detectors and methods of use is designed to function in freespace at the desired radio frequency as well as against materials with a high dielectric constant such as windshield glass. The natural frequency of an antenna shifts when brought near a dielectric material. If the antenna is of a typical narrowband design the antenna s optimal frequency will shift outside its operating bandwidth. Thus a narrowband antenna introduces a detuning bias into the return energy magnitude. This concept is illustrated in and . Anticipating this behavior a preferred embodiment of the inventive device includes an antenna design with bandwidth exceeding the deviation caused by local dielectric materials. In this way the influence of windshield glass for example on the return signal magnitude is minimal as illustrated in and 

Thus the optimal and preferred antenna is a wideband antenna. Preferably the antenna is a wideband monopole or dipole antenna. More preferably the antenna is a wideband flared monopole or dipole antenna. Even more preferably the antenna is a wideband flared monopole or dipole antenna with a frequency range of about 900 MHz to about 3000 MHz.

Upon activation the inventive device sends out a radio frequency signal that will largely pass through dielectric materials such as glass and plastic but will be reflected by conductive materials such as metal. By detecting the amount of reflected radio frequency the device can detect whether a given material such as a thin film contains a conductive material such as metal. The incorporation of a wideband antenna in the inventive device allows the radio frequency to pass through glass plastic and other dielectric materials and the inclusion of a short wavelength for the device s radio frequency prevents the device from picking up frequencies reflected from other conductive materials that may be nearby which avoids the issue with false positives. Data illustrating how the inventive methods function are shown in the graphs in

In one embodiment of the operation of the inventive device a transmitter e.g. RF generator drives a wideband antenna through an RF circulator. Any reflections from the antenna are directed through the circulator to a threshold detection circuit. An LED or other indicator turns on when the reflection rises above the threshold level indicating the presence of a conductor such as would be found in metallic thin film.

In another embodiment of the operation of the inventive device an operator would use the detector by turning on the activation button switch or other mechanism to activate the device s circuitry. The operator would then verify that the indicator e.g. light or meter movement shows little to no signal. The operator would then maneuver the device toward the object with the thin film being tested and preferably place the device flat against the object. The device would then send out a radio frequency that would either mostly pass through the material if there is little or no metal present or would be reflected by the material if the material contains metal . If some of the radio frequency is reflected then the device would pick up the reflected radio frequency and measure it. An indicator e.g. light or meter movement would show if enough radio frequency is detected to signify the presence of metal. For example if the detection indicator is an LED then the LED would light up if enough radio frequency is detected. The indicator could also be a meter which would give a more precise idea of how much radio frequency is detected. By viewing the indicator the operator using the device would be able to discern if the object being tested has a metallic thin film.

In a preferred embodiment of the inventive conductive thin film detector a power source such as a battery is connected to an RF oscillator through a power switch. Once activated by the operator power flows to the RF oscillator and amplifier circuit which generates microwave energy and applies it to the first port of a three port RF circulator. RF energy flows through the circulator to the second circulator port and then routes to an antenna. RF energy emits from the antenna and strikes the material being tested. If the material is conductive energy bounces back into the antenna and arrives at the second port of the circulator. The circulator routes this return RF energy to port three where it is applied to a load. An RF detection circuit detects the RF voltage applied across the load and modifies it to a voltage level that indicates the signal strength of the energy reflected from the material being tested. Finally if the sensed RF return energy exceeds a threshold an indicator alerts the operator to the presence of a conductor near the antenna.

In another embodiment of the invention one skilled in the art could replace the RF circulator with a directional coupler. The sensed return RF energy would be at least ten times weaker than the circulator approach but the net result would be similar because the RF energy reflected back from the antenna would convey the same information about the conductor dielectric or combination of the two as with the RF circulator.

In another embodiment an alternative operator interface could replace the indicator light with an analog magnitude display such as a mechanical meter or row of progressive lights. This can provide the operator with additional insight into the properties of the conductive material being tested. This analog display could be used instead of or in addition to the simple yes or no indicator.

In another embodiment one skilled in the art could use the inventive methods and products when there is a need to measure power reflected by an antenna. By removing the wideband antenna from the invention and connecting the remaining port to an antenna being tested the invention provides the operator with a quick indication of the antenna s capability of radiating radio frequency energy at the selected frequency.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary Abstract Brief Description of the Drawings and Detailed Description sections set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventors and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the relevant art s readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance herein and in light of the knowledge of one skilled in the relevant art s .

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

