---

title: Group III nitride semiconductor frequency multiplier
abstract: A varactor comprising two Schottky diodes, each diode comprising a substrate and a plurality of layers formed on the substrate including at least one GaN layer and at least one semi-insulating material layer formed of a material with an energy gap greater than 3.5 and free carrier mobility less than 300 cm/V-s; the Schottky diodes having cathodes adapted to be connected to an AC voltage input and being configured so that as the AC voltage applied to the cathodes increases the capacitance decreases nonlinearly, the nonlinear transition from high capacitance to low capacitance being adjustable by utilizing the intrinsic carrier concentration of the semi-insulating layer to obtain an optimal nonlinear transition for the predetermined AC voltage applied to the cathodes. A method of making a varactor comprising computer modeling to produce capacitance-voltage curves, modifying at least one semi-insulating region, and modeling power input/output efficiency for a predetermined input signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117937&OS=09117937&RS=09117937
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09117937
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140723
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 774 387 U.S. Pat. No. 8 796 082 entitled Method Of Optimizing A Ga Nitride Device Material Structure For A Frequency Multiplication Device by Dr. Pankaj B. Shah and Dr. Alfred Hung filed Feb. 22 2013 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

A frequency multiplier e.g. a tripler is a device that as an example takes an input signal at 30 GHz and converts some of the energy from this input signal into an output signal at 90 GHz. Because a frequency multiplier is used to generate an output at a different frequency from the input one of the goals of an optimized structure is efficient operation whereby the energy transferred to the new frequency at the output is maximized. The same methodology for the device structure and optimization can also be applied to obtain higher harmonics such as the fifth order of conversion which will be useful for sub millimeter wave signal generation.

Varactor multipliers have first been conceptualized back in the mid 1960s. However little has been done insofar as a conceptual method on how to optimize the device material or structure for highest frequency conversion efficiency at a particular output power level.

According to Wikipedia varactors are operated in a reverse biased state. No current flows but since the thickness of the depletion zone varies with the applied bias voltage the capacitance of the diode can be made to vary. Generally the depletion region thickness is proportional to the square root of the applied voltage capacitance is inversely proportional to the depletion region thickness. Thus the capacitance is inversely proportional to the square root of applied voltage. The depletion layer can also be made of a MOS or a Schottky diode.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a semi insulator GaN or SiC or AlN substrate anti serial Schottky varactor for efficient power selective microwave to sub millimeter wave frequency signal multiplication involving varying the aluminum composition of an AlGaN barrier layer to maximize inter alia output power efficiency. In place of the AlGaN barrier any semi insulating layer with energy gap greater than 3.5 and free carrier mobility less than 300 cm V s may be used. This list would include properly grown and doped diamond or boron nitride appropriately grown for good crystalline quality on GaN. In a preferred methodology selection of AlGaN GaN varactors containing either 1 a high doped low doped GaN region or 2 just a low doped GaN region is utilized depending upon the amplitude of the input signal being tripled in frequency. Stronger susceptance modulation is exhibited in AlGaN GaN Anti series Schottky Varactors ASVs made from Ga face polar material compared to N face polar material. Results indicate that as a frequency tripler choosing the proper aluminum composition results in 27 conversion efficiency with an input signal of 5 GHz and over 7 conversion efficiency with an input signal of 60 GHz along with optimization trends. With input voltage amplitudes over 10 V an AlGaN GaN structure with 15 Al provides greater conversion efficiency than one with 5 Al. Power absorbed in the varactor also increases as aluminum percent increases affecting reliability and power transfer. Results of a GaN based ASV performing as a frequency tripler for fundamental frequencies up to 110 GHz indicate an advantage to using an AlGaN GaN epi structure over only a GaN epi structure.

A preferred method of optimizing a Ga nitride device material structure for a frequency multiplication device comprises 

determining the percentage composition of Al in an AlGaN region to be positioned on the Ga nitride region by selecting an aluminum composition percentage for doping based upon the desired frequency range for the frequency multiplication device in order to optimize power input output efficiency and

selecting an orientation of N face polar GaN or Ga face polar GaN material relative to the AlGaN GaN interface so as to orient the face of the GaN and to optimize charge at the AlGaN GaN interface.

Optionally the method may incorporate the selection of Ga face polar material as the N face polar material creates a negative charge at the AlGaN GaN barrier that repels electrons and negatively impacts the susceptance modulation as indicated by electron concentrations.

Optionally the method may further comprise modeling the Ga nitride material using drift diffusion modeling based upon numerical simulations to produce the capacitance voltage curves when a predetermined sinusoidal input voltage signal at a predetermined frequency in the range of 6 to 60 GHz is applied to the structure and adjusting the impurity doping of the AlGaN and GaN regions to optimize the nonlinear shape of the capacitance voltage curve that is responsible for frequency multiplication so that the V transition voltage voltage measured at the point where the transition from high to low capacitance occurs in the capacitance voltage curve is optimal for an input RF signal of a certain power level indicating peak voltage of input signal whereby the structure is optimized for the input power to be upconverted to a higher frequency.

Optionally the power input output efficiency may be optimized dependent upon input voltage and for input voltages over 10 volts an AlGaN GaN structure with approximately 15 Aluminum may be utilized to provide greater conversion efficiency than an AlGaN GaN structure with approximately 5 Aluminum.

Optionally one can make a tradeoff by determining if the efficiency gain from increasing the aluminum percent is a better outcome vs. as it may also lead to reduced lifetime due to heating of the device but if the cost savings from increased efficiency is worth the reduced lifetime this is a good result.

Optionally the frequency multiplier is a varactor having an input signal and the method further includes modeling based upon numerical simulations to produce the capacitance voltage curves and wherein the aluminum composition of the AlGaN region and impurity doping of the AlGaN and GaN regions can be adjusted so that the voltage Vmeasured where the transition from high to low capacitance occurs in the capacitance voltage curves which is a point of nonlinearity in the curves is optimal for an input RF signal of a predetermined input power level measured at peak voltage of an input signal.

Optionally the method may comprise controlling the voltage V where the transition from high capacitance to low capacitance is optimized by utilizing the intrinsic carrier concentration of the wide bandgap material AlGaN which has a much higher intrinsic free carrier concentration as compared to AlGaAs.

Optionally the top of the AlGaN region is Ga polar material which leads to optimal spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization that produces optimal electric fields for optimal performance.

providing a substrate and at least one semi insulating region comprising one or more of GaN AlGaN and impurity doped AlGaN 

modeling based upon numerical simulations to produce the capacitance voltage curves the at least one semi insulating region being designed so as to optimize the transition voltage of the capacitance voltage curves produced by the modeling 

optimizing the frequency multiplier structure to increase the efficiency of frequency multiplication by designing the structure for optimum performance at a specific input power level transition voltage of the capacitance voltage nonlinearity being based on the nonlinearity capacitance voltage curve of the device occurring at an optimum voltage for a particular sinusoidal input signal being multiplied

Optionally this alternative method may comprise a substrate having a semi insulating GaN formed thereon and wherein the at least one semi insulating region comprising one or more of GaN AlGaN and impurity doped AlGaN forms parts of a pair of Schottky diodes that are anti serial with the anodes connected together for odd harmonics generation.

Optionally this alternative method may comprise in order to minimize the power absorbed in the varactor frequency multiplier structure so that more power is transferred to the load developing a phase difference between the current and voltage waveforms at the varactor terminals so that one is at maximum when the other is close to zero.

Optionally this alternative method may comprise maximizing the power when frequency multiplying at the 3rd harmonic and wherein the maximum power transferred in the third harmonic drops off at a much greater rate for larger output voltage V requiring proper modeling for accurate design because at the same time the varactor gets hotter as output voltage Vincreases and wherein the alternative method comprises tuning the nonlinearity in the capacitance voltage curve so that the nonlinearity occurs at an optimum level to match the power level of the input signal for maximum efficiency of power upconversion.

Optionally using this alternative method the frequency multiplier structure may be an efficient high power millimeter to sub millimeter wave frequency generator and the at least one semi insulating region may comprise at least one semi insulating wide bandgap AlGaN layer which is designed based on choice of composition doping and thickness to greatly improve the conversion efficiency and the at least one GaN layer may be designed based upon doping and thickness to greatly improve the conversion efficiency.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises two Schottky diodes in anti serial connection each of the two Schottky diodes comprising at least one GaN layer which is designed based upon doping and thickness to greatly improve the conversion efficiency.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises two Schottky diodes that are inhomogeneously doped and are in anti serial connection each Schottky diode further comprising at least one semi insulating wide bandgap AlGaN layer which is designed based on choice of composition doping and thickness to greatly improve the conversion efficiency.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises modeling the varactor using numerical simulations to produce the capacitance voltage curves when a predetermined sinusoidal input voltage signal at a predetermined frequency in the range of 6 to 60 GHz is applied to the modeled varactor structure such that by adjusting the impurity doping of the AlGaN and GaN regions the nonlinear shape of the capacitance voltage curve that is responsible for frequency multiplication is optimized and so that the transition voltage measured at the point where the transition from high to low capacitance occurs in the capacitance voltage curve is optimal for an input RF signal of a certain power level indicating peak voltage of input signal whereby the input power is optimized for optimal consideration of the device nonlinearity so that efficient power conversion occurs from the input frequency to the output frequency.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises the at least one semi insulating wide bandgap AlGaN layer comprises incorporating aluminum in the range of approximately 5 to 45 and wherein the voltage across the varactor varies to an output voltage ranging from approximately 4 to 24 volts and wherein the output efficiency of the varactor is maximized when the current and power are substantially out of phase.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises two anti serial Schottky diodes which are quasi monolithically integrated into microstripline circuit and wherein the varactor is optimized for the highest frequency conversion efficiency at a particular output power level by modifying the Aluminum content in the AlGaN layer.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises adjusting the impurity doping and aluminum content of the AlGaN layer by modeling of the varactor on a computer to produce capacitance voltage curves such that the aluminum composition of the AlGaN region and impurity doping of the AlGaN and GaN regions can be adjusted so that the voltage V measured where the transition from high to low capacitance occurs in the capacitance voltage curves is optimal for an input RF signal of a predetermined power level measured at peak voltage of an input signal.

Optionally the preferred embodiment comprises two inhomogeneously doped Schottky diodes that each comprise an ohmic contact through which an input voltage is inputted and a Schottky contact the Schottky contacts being connected together and a surface passivation layer positioned between the Schottky contacts and the ohmic contacts. Each Schottky diode may comprise a GaN layer approximately 0.25 to 0.3 m thick having a carrier concentration of approximately 1 10carriers per cm and an AlGaN layer approximately 0.02 m thick having a carrier concentration of approximately 5 10carriers per cm.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various ranges elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second ranges these terms are only used to distinguish one range from another range. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that are farthest away from a substrate.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A preferred methodology and embodiment comprises a varactor frequency multiplier structure approach applicable to higher odd harmonic multipliers that can be optimized for highest efficiency frequency conversion at a particular power level. Along with the methodology for optimizing the semi insulating GaN structure the present invention also provides benefits coming from the wide bandgap semiconductor material and high thermal conductive substrates which will allow for high power operation. Current varactor multipliers are based on InAs GaAs and InP material systems both the material and the currently used structures put them at a disadvantage when it conversion efficiency and output power are considered.

The present invention is expected to have wide distribution in high frequency and high power applications from personnel sized portable and ground based communication systems radar and EW systems satellite communications IED detection and mitigation systems requiring RF sensing and RF countermeasures biological chemical hazard detection and concealed weapons detection.

The article entitled Critical Design Issues for High power GaN AlGaN Anti serial Schottky Varactor Frequency Triplers by P. B. Shah and H. A. Hung Microelectronics Journal v. 43 p. 410 2012 is hereby incorporated by reference.

The preferred embodiment of the invention includes AlGaN GaN Schottky diodes connected anti serially so that their anodes are connected together as shown in . shows one half of the invention or one Schottky diode . The two Schottky diodes are connected by the Schottky contacts form the preferred embodiment Anti serial Schottky Varactor ASV . The region may comprise S or S or S of . Shown in is a region having the epi layer region surface passivation SiNlayer and Ohmic contact formed thereon. Region is preferably an epilayer of GaN grown or deposited on top of a substrate GaN or SiC or AlN and upon which regions and are placed. Nis an example of the dopant concentration of donor atoms in the GaN layer to make it n type. The dimensions shown in are approximate and are shown in micrometers. For example the region may be approximately 0.3 microns thick and approximately 7 microns in length.

Drift diffusion model based numerical simulations have produced the capacitance voltage curves shown in the top of for structure S when a sinusoidal input voltage signal at 60 GHz is applied to the device. The nonlinear shape of the capacitance voltage curve is responsible for frequency multiplication. The aluminum composition of the AlGaN region shown within S and S in and the impurity doping of the AlGaN and GaN regions can be adjusted so that the voltage V where the transition from high to low capacitance occurs in the capacitance voltage curve i.e. the nonlinearity in the curve is optimal for an input RF signal of a certain power level peak voltage of input signal . This shift in Vdoesn t occur in conventional varactor structures because the conventional varactor structures do not include semi insulating materials. Therefore this optimization based on input power cannot be achieved for conventional varactor structures. illustrates three different voltage signals signal signal and signal . The overlap of the input signal S S or S with the capacitance voltage nonlinearity structure structure or structure is different. This needs to be considered analytically or numerically for optimal consideration of the device nonlinearity so that efficient power conversion occurs from the input frequency to the output frequency. indicates that for a particular input power level horizontal axis the aluminum composition and doping concentration can be properly chosen for optimum frequency conversion considering the methodology indicated in .

Generally speaking it is important that the top of the AlGaN region in should be Ga polar material and not N polar. The polarity can be controlled by the growth method and substrate used. Both metal organic chemical vapor deposition and molecular beam epitaxy can be used to deposit the layers for the varactor structure. Design variables are the aluminum composition of the AlGaN layer and the intentional dopant level of both the AlGaN and GaN layers.

Presently known varactor multiplier structures cannot be as efficient in frequency conversion as an optimized version of the present invention since they do not provide a method to optimize the structure so that based on the power of the input signal being converted to a higher frequency the output will contain most of the energy in the desired harmonic. Prior art materials such as AlGaAs GaAs varactor structures do not provide the means to control the voltage where the transition from high capacitance to low capacitance occurs the voltage where strong nonlinearity occurs because the intrinsic carrier concentration of the wide bandgap material AlGaAs etc. has a much higher intrinsic free carrier concentration and mobility compared to AlGaN.

Also the use of group III nitride based varactors because of their higher breakdown voltage and high thermal conductivity with the SiC or AlN substrates can offer much higher output power density than structures fabricated from GaAs or InP.

The present invention comprises a unique technique for optimizing the device structure to manufacture a highly efficient high power millimeter to sub millimeter wave frequency generator based on properly designing the semi insulating wide bandgap AlGaN layer choice of composition doping and thickness and the GaN layer doping and thickness to greatly improve the conversion efficiency for high frequency harmonic generation. This invention provides an additional degree of freedom for designing the frequency multiplier so that more power can be transferred from the input fundamental frequency to a higher harmonic frequency at the output compared to the current state of the art.

The GaN based multiplier approach can offer much higher output power at millimeter wave than other approaches based on fundamental frequency amplifiers or sources.

Possible uses of the present invention include specific device structures that can provide high frequency signals for efficient high bandwidth soldier portable or ground based communication systems wireless or satellite . Also these devices can provide sub millimeter wave sources for covert communications astrophysics and planetary science sources for single frequency and hyper spectral detection of chemical or biological agents in the atmosphere. Furthermore the devices can be used in systems that detect and mitigate or neutralize IEDs and also concealed weapon detection systems. Furthermore this can be used in electronic warfare systems.

The use of a semi insulating material in conjunction with the preferred embodiments of the present invention provide another degree of freedom in designing the varactor structure for efficient frequency conversion upconvert to third order or high order odd harmonics at a particular input signal power level of operation. Also recognizing and taking advantage of this degree of freedom to tune the nonlinearity in the capacitance voltage curve so that the nonlinearity occurs at an optimum level to match the power level of the input signal for maximum efficiency of power upconversion.

The preferred embodiment semi insulating GaN substrate anti serial Schottky varactor frequency multiplier structure can be optimized to increase the efficiency of frequency tripling or higher order multiplication by designing the structure for optimum performance at a specific input power level. The preferred embodiment exhibits an additional optimization degree of freedom the transition voltage of the capacitance voltage nonlinearity based on its semi insulating regions compositions both the aluminum composition and impurity doping in the case of AlGaN . These semi insulating regions are to be designed so that the nonlinearity transition in the capacitance voltage curve of the device occurs at an optimum voltage for a particular sinusoidal input signal being upconverted through frequency mixing.

The Group III nitride materials used in conjunction with preferred embodiments of the present invention facilitate high power high frequency applications. Group III nitride materials offer the advantage of high power operation due to their large energy gap 3.4 eV for GaN and higher for AlGaN GaN alloys which leads to their high breakdown voltage compared to other III V compound semiconductor materials. In addition these III nitride materials exhibit good electron saturation and peak velocities large band offsets and good thermal conductivity. Cutoff frequencies of single diode GaN varactors have been demonstrated at 360 GHz. See for example C. Jin et al. A novel GaN based high frequency varactor diode Proceedings of the 5th European Microwave Integrated Circuits Conference 2010 pp. 118 121 hereby incorporated by reference. GaN based varactors are promising for high Q varactors with high operating power levels. See for example W. Lu et al. InGaN GaN Schottky diodes with enhanced voltage handling capability for varactor applications IEEE Electron Device Lett. 31 2010 pp. 1119 1121 hereby incorporated by reference.

To generate high frequencies three different structures that can triple the input frequency have been discussed in the literature for the III nitride material system. These are the metal semiconductor metal MSM 2D electron gas 2DEG varactor as described further in M. Marso et al. Comparison of AlGaN GaN MSM varactor diodes based on HFET and MOSHFET layer structures IEEE Electron Device Lett. 27 2006 pp. 945 947 hereby incorporated by reference the anti serial Schottky varactor ASV and the heterobarrier varactor HBV as described further in M. Kraal et al. Power generation at millimeter wave frequencies using GaAs GaAlAs triplers Phys. Status Solidi c 1 2004 pp. 2160 2182 and M. Saglain et al. Influence of polarization charges in Al0.4Ga0.6N GaN barrier varactors Appl. Phys. Lett. 82 2003 pp. 227 229 N. Tanuma et al. Capacitance analysis of Al0.25Ga0.75N GaN heterostructure barrier varactor diodes Phys. Status Solidi c 2 2005 pp. 2692 2695 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The MSM 2DEG and anti serial Schottky varactor ASV structures exhibit lower leakage currents due to the larger barrier a metal semiconductor or metal insulator semiconductor structure presents to free carrier flow compared to the AlGaN GaN interface. On the other hand both the anti serial Schottky varactor ASV and HBV structures are typically considered vertical structures while the MSM 2DEG structure is a lateral structure. For GaN devices in general vertical structures can handle higher power than lateral structures due to the electric field distribution. Besides these issues symmetric performance is also desired for easier implementation and greater system reliability.

Symmetric varactors are a name given to varactors that offer symmetric capacitance voltage CV characteristics and anti symmetric current voltage I V characteristics. As varactors these have an advantage of not needing both a DC bias or idler circuits at even harmonics when used as a frequency tripler. This is because the C V and I V characteristics of the structure results in an absence of second harmonic generation and greater third harmonic conversion efficiency. The III nitride materials are piezoelectric and this complicates creating symmetric varactors using the HBV design because the polarization fields lead to large sheet charge densities in the device structure that shift the axis of symmetry of the CV characteristics away from zero bias. In this regard see O. Ambacher et al. Two dimensional electron gases induced by spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization in undoped and doped AlGaN GaN heterostructures J. Appl. Phys. 87 2000 pp. 334 344 hereby incorporated by reference. The piezoelectric nature of the III nitride materials can also lead to design issues for anti serial Schottky varactor ASV structures and this will be described hereinafter.

The analytical results of the performance capabilities of AlGaN GaN ASV frequency triplers are demonstrated and some of the design issues discussed hereinafter. Of the many device material variables possible to investigate the main focus is on AlGaN material composition and how this affects output power performance. However this is merely an example and the invention is not limited to AlGaN material composition.

The Anti serial Schottky Varactor ASV is formed of two identical Schottky diodes with their Schottky contacts connected together as shown in the schematic illustration given in . Each of the Schottky diodes comprises the layer structure shown in the although only one is shown in . The input signal to be tripled is connected across the two ohmic contacts of the ASV. shows examples of three different epi layer compositions that can be used in connection with the region of . However the numbers of different epilayers increases as in the AlGaN layer the Al composition can be varied for example from 5 to 45 . The SiNused for the surface passivation layer may be 250 nm thick. As shown the ASV is composed of high low doped regions because a carefully designed non uniform doping profile is utilized for susceptance modulation even when self biasing of the device takes place as had previously been detailed. See in this regard M. Krach et al. Power generation at millimeter wave frequencies using GaAs GaAlAs triplers Phys. Status Solidi c 1 2004 pp. 2160 2182. Results had been reported previously for an AlGaAs GaAs ASVs with the narrow energy bandgap region containing a high low doped layer structure see for example M. Krach et al. An integrated ASV frequency tripler for millimeter wave applications in Proceedings of the 33rd European Microwave Conference vol. 3 2003 pp. 1279 1281 hereby incorporated by reference . Similarly structure S contains the narrow energy bandgap GaN region consisting of a high low doped region. On the other hand for structure S the AlGaN layer can also be grown unintentionally doped with a background concentration 1 10cm and so this may be also chosen for the high doped region as described further in R. Oberhuber et al. Mobility of two dimensional electrons in AlGaN GaN modulation doped field effect transistors Appl Phys. Lett. 73 1998 pp. 818 820 hereby incorporated by reference .

Cylindrical three dimensional structures formed by rotating the structure in about the left axis may be utilized and were simulated using the drift diffusion finite element software package Atlas Blaze developed by Silvaco Inc. Conventional Ga face polarity material is considered for part of the study except towards the end where the performance issues with N face polar material in an AlGaN GaN ASV structure are discussed see in this regard O. Ambacher et al. Two dimensional electron gases induced by spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization in undoped and doped AlGaN GaN heterostructures J. Appl. Phys. 87 2000 334 344. Polarization charges were included at the AlGaN GaN and AlGaN metal contact interfaces see for example V. Fiorentini et al. Evidence for nonlinear macroscopic polarization in III V nitride alloy heterostructures Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 2002 1204 1206 hereby incorporated by reference along with thermionic emission. A theoretical value of the Richardson constant was used and scaled for different Al percentages see for example D. Qiao et al. Dependence of Ni AlGaN Schottky barrier height on Al mole fraction J. Appl. Phys. 87 2000 801 804. The Schottky metal AlGaN barrier height was set to 1 eV to reasonably consider the large range of barrier heights reported in the literature. An appropriate concentration and field dependent mobility model for GaN and AlGaN was used see for example M. Farahmand et al. Monte Carlo simulation of electron transport in the III Nitride Wurtzite phase materials system binaries and ternaries IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 48 2001 535 542 . Also a saturation drift velocity of 2.5 10cm s was used for GaN see for example U. V. Bhapkar M. S. Shur Monte Carlo calculation of velocity field characteristics of Wurtzite GaN J. Appl. Phys. 82 1997 1649 1655 hereby incorporated by reference .

For all the simulations executed it was assumed that the device is ideally terminated at the input and output ports so that maximum power transfer takes place from the source to the load and unwanted harmonics are rejected. This allowed focus on designing a device for optimum generation of a given harmonic of the fundamental. Similar procedures of analyzing just the efficiency of the structure for frequency multiplication by observing the ratio J3 J1 was done to understand narrower energy bandgap material varactor performance see for example in this regard A. Reklaitis Efficient heterostructure doped barrier varactor diodes J. Appl. Phys. 105 2009 024502 1 024502 5 hereby incorporated by reference and for THz generation in double heterojunction structures see for example in this regard D. S. Ong H. L. Hartnagel Enhanced THz frequency multiplier efficiency by quasi ballistic electron reflection in double heterojunction structures Euro phys. Lett. 81 2008 48004 1 48004 6 hereby incorporated by reference .

Initially AC simulations were done with the device simulation software package Silvaco Atlas Blaze to obtain the capacitance voltage C V curves of the Anti serial Schottky Varactor ASV . Following that transient simulations of the ASV were performed with an input voltage sine wave followed by taking a Fourier transform of the resulting output current to obtain the frequency spectrum. The ASV s third harmonic conversion capability is determined as the amplitude squared of the third harmonic current through the ASV divided by the amplitude squared of the total current through the ASV. An integral in time of the product of the total current through the ASV and voltage across provided the power absorbed in the device over a cycle.

Furthermore also observed in is that Cand Cof the curves differ only slightly this difference being directly related to the charge introduced by the polarization and intrinsic free carrier concentration of the larger energy gap material. Though in these figures only positive voltage values are shown simulations indicate the curves are symmetric about V 0. The model used here had been verified by reproducing correctly the measured C V curves of AlGaN GaN Schottky diodes reported in the literature as for example in W. L. Liu et al. Capacitance voltage spectroscopy of trapping states in GaN AlGaN heterostructure field effect transistors J. Nanoelectron. Optoelectron. 1 2006 258 263 hereby incorporated by reference.

One of the figures of merit for a varactor is the dynamic cutoff frequency calculated as f R 1 C 1 C where C is capacitance and Ris the series resistance. See in this regard M. Krach J. Freyer M. Claassen Power generation at millimeter wave frequencies using GaAs GaAlAs triplers Phys. Status Solidi c 1 2004 2160 2182 and D. Choudhury et al. Study of the effect of the Cmax Cmin Ratio on the Performance of Back to Back Barrier N N bbBNN varactor frequency multipliers IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett. 4 1994 101 103. Series resistance results from the aggregate of spreading resistance contact resistance and the impedance of undepleted regions all of which are exhibited in the structures considered. Assuming similar series resistance is present in the device structures investigated the capacitance ratios C Cmay be compared in . There C Cover an input signal frequency range from 0 to 100 GHz for structure S is presented with aluminum percentages of 5 15 and 25 . That is the AlGaN region with aluminum compositions of 5 15 and 25 are shown by the solid dot dash and dashed lines respectively. The capacitance ratio is limited at higher frequencies by the total time for charge transfer from the reverse bias state to the zero bias condition of the Schottky diode. These times include the charge carrier recombination times the dielectric relaxation time and the mobility of the free carriers. At higher frequencies these time limited effects affect device performance.

For the AlGaN region structure simulated in plotting free carriers around the GaN AlGaN junction indicates that at 20 GHz the depletion region width is 0.23 m and at higher frequencies the distribution of charges in this region decreases. The slight difference between the curves in for the different aluminum compositions seen up to 35 GHz is due to the added effects of polarization charges modifying the actual charge carrier concentration in the GaN region and the resistance of the AlGaN layer. At frequencies above 35 GHz the change in the charge density in the AlGaN region is greater than the change in the GaN region and thus the AlGaN region s charge modulation also has an influence on the capacitance ratio plotted at higher frequencies. These trends are very similar for structure S. For these devices the conduction current was less than 1 nA.

Besides increasing the cutoff frequency it is desirable to minimize the power absorbed in the varactor so that more power is transferred to the load. This is brought about by obtaining a phase difference between the current and voltage waveforms at the varactor terminals so that one is at maximum when the other is close to zero. These waveforms are shown in for structure S with 15 Al in the AlGaN layer and a 60 GHz input voltage with V 16 V. show the power absorbed per cycle for the same structures analyzed in respectively. It is interesting to observe here that while the efficiency for frequency multiplication at the 3rd harmonic peaks and then decreases as Vincreases the power dissipated in the varactor continues to increase. Thus the maximum power transferred in the third harmonic drops off at a much greater rate for larger V while at the same time the varactor gets hotter as Vincreases.

The AlGaN GaN structures simulated up to this point are made of Ga face polar material. The term Ga face polar or the other common equivalent N face polar refers to the arrangement of the atoms in the crystal. This arrangement leads to spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization that causes electric fields in the device which also influence performance. Ga face polar material is being challenged in high frequency RF MMIC applications by N face polar AlGaN GaN structures for HEMTs because of their potentially better properties for high frequency operation. See in this regard Rajan et al. N polar GaN AlGaN GaN high electron mobility transistors J. Appl. Phys. 102 2007 044501 1 044501 6.

However N face polar material is not advantageous for this particular ASV structure where analysis indicates very low conversion efficiencies. The reason for this is the negative charge at the AlGaN GaN barrier interface when using N face polar material. This negative charge repels electrons and thus negatively impacts the susceptance modulation as indicated by the electron concentrations shown in the left half and B the right half of the ASV structure. These figures present the electron concentration through a vertical cut near the Schottky contact at x 2 m from the center of the circular ASV structure S that was simulated with an AlGaN layer containing 15 Al. For this result 15 V is applied to the ohmic contact of while grounding the ohmic contact of .

Also simulated was a GaN only ASV structure S. However it was first observed that the models produced results comparable to data measured for GaN varactors published recently thus verifying the models we are using. See in this regard C. Jin et al. A novel GaN based high frequency varactor diode in Proceedings of the 5European Microwave Integrated Circuits Conference 2010 pp. 118 121 and M. Saglam et al. Influence of polarization charges in Al0.4Ga0.6N GaN barrier varactors Appl. Phys. Lett. 82 2003 227 229. AC simulations over the frequency range from 5 GHz to 100 GHz indicate that Cis larger for lower frequencies while Cremains the same. Also unlike the AlGaN GaN case the transition voltage from Cto Cstays the same over this frequency range. The C Cratios at different frequencies were 6.7 at 5 GHz 5.3 at 30 GHz 3.3 at 60 GHz and 1.8 at 100 GHz. The frequency tripling capability of this device is presented in . illustrates power in the third harmonic relative to total power in the device vs. input signal frequency for an input amplitude of V 4 V dashed line 8 V solid line and 16 V dotted line . Also shown are the powers absorbed over one cycle in this device for the same input signal amplitudes indicating saturation of the absorbed power as the frequency increases. One can observe in this figure that at low frequencies the conversion efficiencies for 3rd harmonic generation for the 4 V and 8 V cases are similar and this is due to similar voltage range over which Coccurs unlike the AlGaN GaN structures. The conversion efficiency for the 16 V input signal is very low because the interaction between the input sinusoidal voltage signal and the nonlinearity in the capacitance voltage characteristic is non optimal with most of the excursion of the voltage signal being outside of the nonlinearity in the capacitance voltage characteristic.

Drift diffusion simulation results have been presented for AlGaN GaN ASV as well as only a GaN ASV. For AlGaN GaN varactors it has been demonstrated that the Al composition is a key design variable in optimizing the performance. Also AlGaN GaN varactors containing either 1 a high doped low doped GaN region or 2 just a low doped GaN region have been compared demonstrating that the choice of which structure to use also depends on the input signal amplitude. The advantages of using Ga face polar compared to N face polar AlGaN GaN material for ASVs has been demonstrated. Finally results for a GaN ASV performing as a frequency tripler for fundamental frequencies up to 110 GHz indicate an advantage to using an AlGaN GaN structure over only a GaN structure due to the additional degree of optimization allowed by the AlGaN layer.

As used herein ASV or anti serial Schottky varactor means a varactor structure comprising two inhomogeneously doped Schottky diodes in anti serial connection which may be quasi monolithically integrated into microstripline circuit which may be on quartz .

As used herein the terminology Ga face polar or the other common equivalent N face polar refers to the arrangement of the atoms in the crystal.

The terminology Fermi level as used herein relates to doped semiconductors p type and n type where the Fermi level is shifted by the dopant illustrated by their band gaps. The Fermi function f E gives the probability that a given available electron energy state will be occupied at a given temperature. The Fermi function is defined as 

As used herein the term light means electromagnetic radiation unless specifically pointed out to the contrary. That is the photodetectors illustrated in the figures herein may be used in conjunction with other forms of electromagnetic radiation and the terminology light encompasses other forms of electromagnetic radiation.

As used herein the terminology processor includes computer controller CPU microprocessor multiprocessor minicomputer main frame personal computer PC signal processor super computer coprocessor and combinations thereof or any machine similar to a computer or processor which is capable of processing algorithms.

The terminology layer as used in the following claims is not intended to be limiting including as to size or dimension. The terminology layer means a quantity or thickness of material which may or may not be of uniform thickness or have uniform dimensions. The terminology layer as used in the claims includes regions or portions of a composite device or structure.

As used herein the terminology energy gap or band gap means an energy range in a semiconductor where no electron states exist and which may be represented graphically as the energy difference in electron volts between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band in the semiconductor material.

As used herein the terminology mobility means the mobility of charge carriers in a semiconductor material. The charge carriers may be either electrons or holes.

Electron mobility refers to how quickly an electron can move through a metal or semiconductor when pulled by an electric field. In semiconductors there is an analogous quantity for holes called hole mobility. When an electric field E is applied across a semiconductor material the electrons respond by moving with an average velocity called the drift velocity.

As used herein the terminology susceptance means is the imaginary part of a complex number value of admittance. Admittance is a measure of how easily a circuit will allow current to flow.

As used herein the Ga face polar GaN refers to GaN in a wurtzite crystal structure wherein the four tetrahedrally oriented bonds of Ga are oriented in a way such that one bond points up and is not bonded to a nitrogen atom but instead forming the exposed face of the crystal and the other three bonds are downward and bonded to nitrogen atoms.

As used herein the N face polar GaN refers to GaN in a wurtzite crystal structure wherein the four tetrahedrally oriented bonds of nitrogen N are oriented in a way such that one bond points up and is not bonded to a Ga atom but instead forming the exposed face of the crystal and the other three bonds are downward and bonded to Ga atoms.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein and the present invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed. Applying current knowledge modifications and or adaptations of such specific embodiments are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

