---

title: Use of wireless access point ID for position determination
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a wireless transceiver and a processing circuit. The processing circuit is configured to identify a location, to identify a wireless access point within a predetermined distance of the location, to detect a wireless access point identifier using the wireless transceiver, to compare the detected wireless access point identifier to the identified wireless access point, and to initiate location determination based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191781&OS=09191781&RS=09191781
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09191781
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140502
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 872 703 filed Aug. 31 2010 titled USE OF WIRELESS ACCESS POINT ID FOR POSITION DETERMINATION which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Some mobile computing devices provide location based services to a user. For example a mobile computing device may use a navigation application to provide directions from the users current location to a desired destination. A location determining circuit or system may be used to periodically determine the location of the mobile computing device.

Mobile computing devices may also have wireless transceivers configure to communicate with various types of wireless devices over various types of wireless networks.

Some embodiments described herein may reduce the power consumption of a mobile computing device by reducing the activity of location determination circuitry based on one or more factors. Some embodiments described herein may use location related data such as a current location a desired or future location the presence of wireless access points.

Referring to a mobile device is shown. The teachings herein can be applied to device or to other electronic devices e.g. a desktop computer mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or handheld computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA smartphone mobile telephone personal navigation device etc. According to one embodiment device may be a smartphone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having PDA functionality. PDA functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management e.g. including personal data applications such as email calendar contacts etc. database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording Global Positioning System GPS functionality etc. Device may be configured to synchronize personal information from these applications with a computer e.g. a desktop laptop server etc. . Device may be further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

As shown in device includes a housing and a front and a back . Device further comprises a display and a user input device e.g. a QWERTY keyboard buttons touch screen speech recognition engine etc. . Display may comprise a touch screen display in order to provide user input to a processing circuit see to control functions such as to select options displayed on display enter text input to device or enter other types of input. Display also provides images see e.g. that are displayed and may be viewed by users of device . User input device can provide similar inputs as those of touch screen display . An input button may be provided on front and may be configured to perform pre programmed functions. Device can further comprise a speaker a stylus not shown to assist the user in making selections on display a camera a camera flash a microphone and an earpiece . Display may comprise a capacitive touch screen a mutual capacitance touch screen a self capacitance touch screen a resistive touch screen a touch screen using cameras and light such as a surface multi touch screen proximity sensors or other touch screen technologies and so on. Display may be configured to receive inputs from finger touches at a plurality of locations on display at the same time. Display may be configured to receive a finger swipe or other directional input which may be interpreted by a processing circuit to control certain functions distinct from a single touch input. Further a gesture area may be provided adjacent e.g. below above to a side etc. or be incorporated into display to receive various gestures as inputs including taps swipes drags flips pinches and so on. One or more indicator areas e.g. lights etc. may be provided to indicate that a gesture has been received from a user.

According to an exemplary embodiment housing is configured to hold a screen such as display in a fixed relationship above a user input device such as user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and the user input device e.g. a plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment.

Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a hand of a user comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. The various input devices and other components of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front surface shown in the rear surface shown in the side surfaces as shown in etc. . Furthermore various components such as a keyboard etc. may be retractable to slide in and out from a portion of device to be revealed along any of the sides of device etc. For example as shown in front may be slidably adjustable relative to back to reveal input device such that in a retracted configuration see input device is not visible and in an extended configuration see input device is visible.

According to various exemplary embodiments housing may be any size shape and have a variety of length width thickness and volume dimensions. For example width may be no more than about 200 millimeters mm 100 mm 85 mm or 65 mm or alternatively at least about 30 mm 50 mm or 55 mm. Length may be no more than about 200 mm 150 mm 135 mm or 125 mm or alternatively at least about 70 mm or 100 mm. Thickness may be no more than about 150 mm 50 mm 25 mm or 15 mm or alternatively at least about 10 mm 15 mm or 50 mm. The volume of housing may be no more than about 2500 cubic centimeters cc or 1500 cc or alternatively at least about 1000 cc or 600 cc.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1IxRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Long Term Evolution LTE systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Device may be configured to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit having a dual or multi processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . Host processor and radio processor may be distinct separate or different chips integrated circuit packages parts or components. The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth. Alternatively the processing circuit may comprise one processor more than two processors and or other analog and or digital circuit components configured to or programmed to operate as described herein with respect to the various embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor as distinct processing components fabricated on a single chip etc.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment host processor is an OMAP2 such as an OMAP2431 processor manufactured by Texas Instruments Inc.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm WebOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol W AP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video NV devices that support NV capability of device . Examples of NV devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or base band processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or base band processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital base band operations for device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

Device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of wireless access points using different protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS CDMA and or LTE system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers configured to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or rewriteable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more location determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

Device may be configured to operate in one or more location determination modes including for example a standalone mode a mobile station MS assisted mode and or a MS based mode. In a standalone mode such as a standalone GPS mode device may be configured to determine its position without receiving wireless navigation data from the network though it may receive certain types of position assist data such as almanac ephemeris and coarse data. In a standalone mode device may comprise a local location determination circuit e.g. a GPS receiver which may be integrated within housing configured to receive satellite data via an antenna and to calculate a position fix. Local location determination circuit may alternatively comprise a GPS receiver in a second housing separate from housing but in the vicinity of device and configured to communicate with device wirelessly e.g. via a PAN such as Bluetooth . When operating in an MS assisted mode or an MS based mode however device may be configured to communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with a remote computer e.g. a location determination entity PDE a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC etc. .

In an MS assisted mode such as an MS assisted AGPS mode the remote computer may be configured to determine the position of the mobile computing device and provide wireless data comprising a position fix. In an MS based mode such as an MS based AGPS mode device may be configured to determine its position using acquisition data or other wireless data from the remote computer . The acquisition data may be provided periodically. In various implementations device and the remote computer may be configured to communicate according to a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA radiotelephone system.

When assisting the mobile computing device the remote computer may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid location determination. Examples of position assist data may include satellite based measurements terrestrial based measurements and or system based measurements such as satellite almanac information GPS code phase measurements ionospheric data ephemeris data time correction information altitude estimates timing offsets forward reverse link calibration coarse data and so forth.

In various implementations the position assist data provided by the remote computer may improve the speed of satellite acquisition and the probability of a position fix by concentrating the search for a GPS signal and or may improve the accuracy of location determination. Each position fix or series of position fixes may be available at device and or at the remote computer depending on the location determination mode. In some cases data calls may be made and position assist data may be sent to device from the remote computer for every position fix e.g. in an ad hoc mode . In other cases data calls may be made and position assist data may be sent periodically and or as needed.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware programmed with code to support location determination. For example the transceiver module and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support location determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate location requests e.g. requests for position fixes and location responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

The LBS application may be configured to send a location request in response to receiving input from device or from a source external to device . For example the user of device may interact with a data input device to command the LBS application to send a location request. The LBS application also may send a location request in response to receiving input from an external network element or computing device that is attempting to locate the user of device . In some cases the LBS application also may be configured to automatically periodically and or autonomously send location requests.

Although other applications may operate without regard to the location of device in various embodiments the LBS application may request and receive position information to enhance the functionality of one or more of the other applications. For example position information may be provided in conjunction with a messaging application to locate the sender or recipient of a message. Position information may be provided to a web browser application to generate directions to a location associated with a particular website. Positioning information may be provided to a personal management application to generate location based alerts and or directions to a meeting place.

The radio processor may be configured to receive location requests from an LBS API handler on host processor and may forward location responses to the LBS API handler for delivery to the LBS application through the LBS API. Radio processor may be configured to communicate securely over a network with remote computer e.g. PDE LPS or MPC configured to provide authentication and authorization services and or a variety of geo services. For example radio processor may be configured to communicate with a PDE configured to verify privacy for location requests allow authorized access to a location server and provide various location server services. Radio processor also may be configured to communicate with a PDE to request and receive geo service information. Examples of geo service information may include mapping information routing information geo coding and reverse geo coding information for addresses and coordinates POI information and so forth.

Radio processor may be configured to invoke a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the location determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc.

Radio processor also may set request response parameters to request and return various types of position information. Examples of request response parameters may include current location latitude longitude altitude heading vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix method level of accuracy time offset position uncertainty device orientation client initialization and registration and so forth.

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position engine such as a GPS engine. In various embodiments the position engine may be configured to provide location determination capabilities for device . In some embodiments the position engine may be implemented as software operating in conjunction with hardware e.g. GPS receiver hardware allowing device to receive and process GPS satellites signals for location determination. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

In various implementations the position engine may employ one or more location determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFLT OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine also may be configured to operate in one or more location determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode. The determined position information generated and or obtained by the position engine generally may comprise any type of information associated with the location of device . Examples of position information may include without limitation current location latitude longitude altitude heading information vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix information position uncertainty device orientation and so forth.

In various embodiments device may be used in connection with a variety of applications that require determination of the location of device . For example various navigation and mapping applications may be utilized to provide various types of data and information to users including driving directions map information point of interest POI information and so on. A location determining circuit or system such as location determining circuit see may periodically determine e.g. obtain request or determine a position fix update a location etc. the location of device at a standard rate or period e.g. every second twice per second etc. on a continuous ongoing basis. Utilizing a location determining system in such a manner however typically requires significant power. Should a device rely on a power source such as a battery e.g. as in the case with typical mobile phones smart phones and other mobile devices the available usage time of the device may be significantly decreased because of the power requirements of the location determining system.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method of using a wireless access point identifier for position determination will be described. The operations described may be operable on mobile device a remote server e.g. a shared scaleable computing resource such as a cloud computing environment or one or more other server computers or partially operable on both device and remote server . The operations described in may be performed in any order at the same time as other operations are performed etc. One or more of the operations may be implemented apart from others of the operations in various embodiments.

At a block processing circuit is configured to identify a location such as one or more destinations including waypoints or other locations of interest. Locations may comprise location data such as latitude longitude and or altitude data or data using other coordinate or reference systems such as wireless access point identifiers and may further comprise a textual or alphanumeric location name. Processing circuit may be configured to receive the location or locations from a user e.g. via user input device from one or more applications operating on circuit such as a friend finder application family connect application configured to share location data among family members or other friend or buddy lists from a remote server coupled to the Internet e.g. from a social networking site navigation or mapping system etc. or from other sources. In one embodiment processing circuit may be configured to operate a distinct software application or service configured to register or store locations as they are received and to retain a plurality of such locations.

At a block processing circuit is configured to identify at least one wireless access point within a predetermined distance of the one or more locations. Circuit may be configured to send the locations to a remote server configured to operate a database of wireless access point identifiers and corresponding location data. Server may be configured to receive the locations look up one or more wireless access point identifiers e.g. cellular base station IDs Wi Fi transceiver IDs Wi MAX transceiver IDs etc. and return the wireless access point identifiers to circuit . For example server may be configured to operate a map application made by Google Inc. Mountain View Calif. which may store cellular IDs for cellular towers mapped to approximate locations. Alternatively circuit may identify wireless access points with reference to a local database stored on device . In some circumstances circuit may be configured to receive wireless access point identifiers from a user via a user input device.

Wireless access point identifiers may comprise numeric textual or alphanumeric strings used to identify a wireless access point preferably uniquely. Circuit or server may be programmed with a predetermined distance indicating how near a wireless access point is to be to the location before being identified as being near a wireless access point. The predetermined distance may about one mile or less about 5 miles or less about 30 miles or less about 45 miles or less or other distances for example in the case where the wireless access point is a cellular base station or cell site or about 120 feet or less about 300 feet or less or other distances for example in the case where the wireless access point is a Wi Fi access point. The predetermined distance may be measured using other methods. For example the predetermined distance may mean within one cell range of the location of interest such as in a case where the database already has locations mapped to their closest cellular IDs. In other example embodiments the wireless access point may be identified as associated with the location of interest by any association such as being in the same cell range. Different predetermined distances may be associated with different destinations or locations of interest. The predetermined distance may be pre programmed by a manufacturer of device pre programmed by a developer of the distinct software application or service received from a user or IT professional via a user input device received from a server computer operated by a wireless carrier or enterprise or received from other sources. Wireless access points may be stored on device on remote server on a memory card inserted into device or on another medium. The service or software application may be configured to map the locations to one or more of a list of wireless access point IDS that are close to or near the location. According to one advantageous embodiment a plurality of cell IDs surrounding or adjacent to the location of interest may be mapped to the location to allow for the device approaching from a variety of directions or to allow for the location being near an overlap between two cells within the cellular coverage region.

At a block processing circuit may optionally be configured to store the identified wireless access protocol IDs in a list in a memory on the radio processor chip. In one embodiment host processor may be configured to operate the service or application described with reference to block . In that case host processor may be configured to transfer communicate or transmit the identified wireless access protocol IDs to radio processor . In an alternative embodiment radio processor may operate a portion or all of the service and radio processor may be configured to store the identified wireless access point IDs on chip . In other embodiments the IDs may be stored on shared memory off chip memory or memory off device .

By transferring the IDs off of the memory of the host processor chip host processor may be configured to enter or operate in a reduced power mode block while radio processor may continue or begin to detect wireless access point identifiers. The reduced power mode may be a standby mode suspend mode idle mode hibernation mode or other operating mode. The reduced power mode may be any mode in which some power is consumed but less power is consumed than in a normal operating mode i.e. a mode in which typical host processor functions are operable . For example a reduced power mode may reduce power consumption by at least about 50 or at least about 75 or at least about 90 or other amounts.

At block circuit may be configured to monitor listen for detect or receive wireless access point identifiers. The monitoring at block may be accompanied by operating one or more portions of device such as the location determination circuit at a first power setting or state e.g. powered down reduced power low power sleep state etc. . In one embodiment radio processor may be configured to detect the wireless access point identifiers so that host processor may also operate with a power setting or state such as entering a reduced power mode. In alternative embodiments host processor and radio processor or other processing circuit arrangements may be configured to detect the wireless access point identifiers. In one example circuit may detect a signal from a new cellular base station in range of device the signal comprising identifier data for the base station. Circuit may be configured to execute a hand off from one cellular base station signal or channel to the new cellular base station signal or channel. Alternatively circuit may merely detect the presence of the new cellular base station and store the identifier of the base station without executing a hand off for example based on signal strength considerations.

Upon receipt of each new wireless access point identifier circuit may be configured to compare the detected wireless access point identifier to the one or more wireless access point IDs identified in block to look for a match to determine whether device is within a target area or target location. If a match is found circuit has determined that device is near in the vicinity of or within the predetermined distance of a destination or location of interest. In that case circuit may be configured to optionally send a notification message to wake host processor to switch it to a normal operating mode block and initiate location determination based on the comparison block . If no match is found circuit may continue searching for wireless access point IDs without initiating the location determination.

At block location determination may be initiated in a number of ways. Location determination circuit may be operated in a second power setting or state different than the first power setting state which may be powered on enabled or brought out of a sleep state. In one example circuit may be configured to initiate a periodic or continuous generation of location data for example using location determination circuit . Location determination circuit may in this mode be configured to track the location of device using a global positioning system according to any of various location determination technologies such as those discussed herein. Circuit may provide finer periodic location updates such as at least about one location fix per minute at least about one location fix per two minutes at least about one location fix per ten minutes etc. The periodic updates may be generated at regular or irregular intervals of time. Location determination circuit may be powered in this mode and the portion of host processor operating the service may be powered in this mode. By enabling GPS tracking device may be guided to the destination or waypoint of interest with a finer resolution of tracking location of device .

According to one exemplary embodiment circuit may be configured to operate a family connect application friend finder application or other application configured to share location data among a plurality of mobile devices. In this embodiment circuit may be configured in response to finding the wireless access point ID at step to generate a wireless message address the wireless message to another computing device and or transmit the wireless message to the other computing device using the wireless transceiver . For example a parent may wish to know when their child is approaching a school friend s house park or other intended destination of the child. Device may be carried by the child and be configured to store a location associated with the destination. The location may be passed from the family connect application to the service described herein with reference to blocks . When the device comes within range of a cellular ID tower closest to or near the destination the message e.g. text message instant message e mail paging message phone call or other message or alert is sent from device to a parent s device e.g. home computer laptop mobile device etc. .

According to another embodiment the destination or location of interest may comprise a waypoint along a route between a starting point and a destination point. For example device may be programmed to navigate a user to a waypoint and then on to a final destination point or any other number of points along a planned route . Device may then operate in GPS tracking mode as device gets near or in the vicinity of each waypoint along the way then return to a non GPS tracking mode e.g. and optionally also a host processor sleep mode between waypoints.

According to one particularly advantageous scenario device may be configured to cease GPS tracking while device is travelling on a highway along a route on the way to a destination while device is still beyond the predetermined distance from the destination. Significant power savings can be realized in this scenario.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of a cellular coverage area is shown. In this scenario device begins at location A and sets a destination location E using a navigation mapping program operating on device . Device is configured to plan a route from start location A to destination location E. Device is configured to store destination data associated with destination location E which may be stored in radio processor . Device is configured to transmit the location data for location E to remote server which looks up in a database location E and identifies a cellular ID for cellular base station which is within a predetermined distance of destination location E. Device receives this cellular ID and stores it in memory either on host processor on radio processor or elsewhere. In this way device has determined a wireless access point within a predetermined distance of the destination location E. Host processor then enters a sleep mode.

As device moves along route device is configured to detect wireless access point identifiers using its wireless transceiver. As device reaches location B device has detected a wireless ID for cellular site having range . Device compares the wireless ID to the database or list and does not find a match. Therefore GPS tracking continues to be disabled or not operational and optionally host processor remains in reduced power mode. Other applications or user input may call host processor out of reduced power mode for other functions. As device reaches point C it has detected a wireless ID for cellular site having range . Device compares the wireless ID for site to the database or list and does not find a match. Therefore GPS tracking continues to be disabled. As device reaches point D it has detected a wireless ID for cellular site having range . Device determines that the wireless ID matches the determined wireless access point. Radio processor sends a notification message to wake up host processor and to notify host processor that a match has been found. Host processor enables GPS tracking to provide navigation instructions via a user interface device to assist the user in navigating the final route to destination E.

Various embodiments disclosed herein may include or be implemented in connection with computer readable media configured to store machine executable instructions therein and or one or more modules circuits units or other elements that may comprise analog and or digital circuit components configured arranged or programmed to perform one or more of the operations recited herein. For example a processing circuit may comprise one or more circuits integrated circuits processors components etc. which may be mounted on a single board or on a plurality of circuit boards within a single housing or in multiple housings. By way of example computer readable media may include RAM ROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or any other non transitory medium capable of storing and providing access to desired machine executable instructions.

While the detailed drawings specific examples and particular formulations given describe exemplary embodiments they serve the purpose of illustration only. The hardware and software configurations shown and described may differ depending on the chosen performance characteristics and physical characteristics of the computing devices. The systems shown and described are not limited to the precise details and conditions disclosed. Furthermore other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as expressed in the appended claims.

