---

title: Parallel metadata entry and physical scanning
abstract: A scanning system provides for scanning documents and generating respective electronic copies with associated metadata. A scanner scans one or more documents to produce respective electronic copies. A user interface captures metadata entered by a user regarding the documents. A controller is communicatively coupled to the scanner and the user interface, and enables the user interface to capture the metadata concurrently with the scanner's scanning the documents. The electronic copy and the metadata can be associated with one another or incorporated into a common file. Parallel metadata entry and physical scanning reduces time a user spends to perform the overall process, resulting in increased user satisfaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473651&OS=09473651&RS=09473651
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09473651
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141217
---
A multifunction printer MFP typically provides a number of services for processing documents and can incorporate the features of a photocopier printer scanner and or a fax machine as well as an interface to communicate across a network. A MFP may also include an integrated user interface UI or may interface with a user across the network. In order to scan a document and produce an electronic copy of the document a user typically positions the document at the scanner and sets scanning parameters at the UI. If the electronic copy is to include user defined metadata the user may also enter the metadata at the UI before or after the scan.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide a system for scanning documents and generating respective electronic copies with associated metadata. The system may provide for scanning the documents in parallel with entering metadata by a user thereby minimizing the total time of a scanning operation. The system may include a scanner to scan one or more documents to produce respective electronic copies. A user interface captures metadata entered by a user regarding the documents. Further a controller is communicatively coupled to the scanner and the user interface and enables the user interface to capture the metadata concurrently with the scanner s scanning the documents. The controller may further associate the electronic copy and the metadata.

In further embodiments the controller may update the electronic copy to incorporate at least a portion of the metadata or to modify the electronic copy based on the metadata. Such metadata can include for example a filename a file path bibliographic information and a watermark. The controller may also populate at least a portion of the metadata automatically by extracting content from the electronic copy of the documents and modifying the metadata to include the content. The documents may include several individual documents and the controller enables the user interface to capture metadata for the plurality of documents concurrently with the scanner s scanning the several documents.

In still further embodiments the controller may detect an interrupt event e.g. an error from the scanner or the user interface. The controller may control the user interface to display selectively the interrupt event and a prompt to capture the metadata based on a respective priority. The controller may also define parameters for the scanning of documents based on a selection by a user at the user interface. The controller may further modify the electronic copy based on information entered by the user at the user interface. Such information may indicate an image transformation for the electronic copy such as a page layout format or dimensions.

In yet further embodiments the controller may be communicatively coupled to the scanner across a network. Likewise the user interface may be incorporated into a computing device e.g. a workstation smartphone or tablet device communicatively coupled to the scanner across a network. The controller may also be incorporated into the computing device or may be incorporated into a server that is also communicatively coupled to the scanner across the network. The controller may also be communicatively coupled to a plurality of additional scanners.

In still further embodiments the scanner may also provide for generating at least one physical copy of the at least one document. For example the scanner may be implemented in a multifunction printer MFP . Likewise the scanner may be a MFP and the term scanner may be used herein interchangeably with the term MFP. 

A further embodiment of the invention includes an apparatus used in cooperation with a system for scanning documents. The apparatus may include a controller having an interface configured to communicatively couple to a scanner and a user interface. The controller may be configured to enable the user interface to capture metadata entered by a user concurrently with enabling the scanner to scan at least one document the controller being further configured to associate the electronic copy and the metadata.

Previous multifunction printers MFPs and other scanning systems provide a serial workflow whereby the operations of metadata entry and document scanning are completed in succession. This serial workflow must be repeated for any number of documents to be scanned. As a result the total time to complete a scan of one or more documents is extensive and requires a user to be present at the scanning device for the duration of the scan.

Example embodiments of the invention provide a system for scanning documents and generating respective electronic copies with associated metadata. The system may provide for scanning the documents in parallel with entering metadata by a user thereby minimizing the total time of a scanning operation. The system may include a scanner to scan one or more documents to produce respective electronic copies. A user interface captures metadata entered by a user regarding the documents. Further a controller is communicatively coupled to the scanner and the user interface and enables the user interface to capture the metadata concurrently with the scanner s scanning the documents. The controller may further associate the electronic copy and the metadata.

The scanner provides for capturing images of documents to generate a respective electronic copy of the document . The scanner may be implemented for example in a flatbed scanner a subsystem of a MFP or another image capturing device. The scanner may be communicatively coupled to the controller as well as to a data store e.g. a network server a database or an integrated storage device for storing the electronic copy .

The user interface enables a user to initiate and control a scan of the documents as well as to enter metadata to be associated or incorporated into the electronic copy of the documents . The user interface may be a component of a MFP or implemented in a computing device such as a tablet smartphone or workstation. The user interface may include a touchscreen display for accepting user input and providing information to the user regarding the scanning process and workflow. In particular the user interface may prompt the user to initiate a scan enter parameters for the scan e.g. image properties page formatting output file type enter metadata regarding the scanned documents and enter additional information for processing the documents or the electronic copy . The metadata may include for example a filename a file path bibliographic information a watermark and metadata fields associated with a particular file type of the electronic copy .

The controller is communicatively coupled to both the user interface and the scanner and generally manages a scanning operation. In particular the controller may communicate with the user interface to enable a user to initiate a scanning operation and enter information regarding the scan including scanning parameters and the metadata . Based on the scanning parameters the controller communicates with the scanner to enable scanning the documents to generate a respective electronic copy which may be stored to the data store . In order to minimize the total time required for the scanning operation the controller may enable the user interface to capture the metadata concurrently with the scanner s scanning the documents . Thus both the scanning by the scanner and metadata entry at the user interface may occur in parallel and independently of one another. Further when the documents include multiple separate documents to be scanned in succession the controller may enable the user to enter metadata for each of the multiple separate documents while simultaneously controlling the scanner to scan each of the multiple documents in succession.

Once the scanning parameters are established the controller may control the scanner to scan the entirety of the documents without further prompting of the user . However if the controller detects an interrupt event e.g. an error such as a paper jam indicated by the scanner the controller may prompt the user via the user interface to address the interrupt event. The controller may selectively display such prompts and optionally interrupt a metadata entry process based on a given priority of the interrupt event.

The controller may then further process the electronic copy for example by associating it with the metadata or updating the electronic copy to incorporate at least a portion of the metadata . The controller may also extract content from the electronic copy e.g. via optical character recognition OCR processing to derive additional metadata which can be used to populate metadata fields of the electronic document . As a result the controller provides a processed electronic copy having associated and or incorporated metadata. The controller may then forward the processed electronic copy in accordance with destination parameters as defined by the user at the user interface . For example the controller may store the processed electronic copy to the data store or another storage device e.g. a networked database a data server a cloud based storage service . The controller may also forward the copy to one or more email addresses as selected by the user fax the document to a destination fax number indicated by the user and or may enter the copy into a document management system e.g. SharePoint iManage Worksite based on the metadata and or destination parameters entered by the user . An example scanning operation is described in further detail below with reference to .

When the scanner completes the scan to produce the respective electronic copy of the documents and when the metadata entry at the user interface is complete the controller may further process the electronic copy to associate and or incorporate at least a portion of the metadata into the copy . As a result the controller generates a processed electronic copy of the scanned documents .

MFP firmware provides an internal software layer for interfacing between the MFP hardware and a number of software applications and application platforms including an MFP embedded application package MFP application platform and custom scanning applications . The embedded application package may include applications to operate the MFP hardware and can be configured in accordance with the respective application programming interface API of each hardware component. The embedded application package may include software to operate several services of the MFP including photocopying scanning printing and configuration routines. In contrast custom scanning applications may provide additional software based services or supersede the services provided by the embedded application package and can be configured for a specific deployment of the MFP . The custom scanning applications can include scanning control applications and user interface logic and control applications which can provide services such as authentication and feature access control print job control scanning and document delivery and tracking of print and scan jobs. The custom applications may be supported by an MFP application platform which may include a collection of software libraries and APIs. The applications in combination with processing components of the MFP hardware may incorporate some or all of the features of the controller as described above with reference to .

As shown in the user specifies scanning parameters at the user interface . The user then initiates the scanning operation and in response the controller causes the scanner to begin scanning . and causes the user interface to display a metadata entry interface . . The user may then begin metadata entry at the user interface at the same time as the scanner is performing the scan of the document. The scanning is completed before metadata entry is complete. Thus when the user completes the metadata entry the entire scanning operation is complete and the user may leave the scanning system . .

FIGS. A C are portions of a common flow diagram illustrating a process of scanning a succession of documents in one embodiment. The process may be carried out by any of the systems described above with reference to C respectively. In particular the controller described above with reference to may be implemented as a scanning application SA as described below. In a networked configuration the SA may be implemented in a distributed manner across the network and include a SA client component and a SA server component. Each element of the process is labeled with a number in a sequence of 1 74 and is described in order below.

Embodiments or aspects thereof may be implemented in the form of hardware firmware or software. If implemented in software the software may be stored on any non transient computer readable medium that is configured to enable a processor to load the software or subsets of instructions thereof. The processor then executes the instructions and is configured to operate or cause an apparatus to operate in a manner as described herein.

Further firmware software routines or instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions and or functions of the data processors. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions contained herein are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing the firmware software routines instructions etc.

It should also be understood that the flow diagrams block diagrams and network diagrams may include more or fewer elements be arranged differently or be represented differently. But it further should be understood that certain implementations may dictate the block and network diagrams and the number of block and network diagrams illustrating the execution of the embodiments be implemented in a particular way.

Accordingly further embodiments may also be implemented in a variety of computer architectures physical virtual cloud computers and or some combination thereof and thus the data processors described herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and not as a limitation of the embodiments.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

