---

title: Crest factor reduction of inter-band carrier aggregated signals
abstract: A method, system and circuit for crest factor reduction of inter-band multi-standard carrier aggregated signals are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method includes calculating the amplitude of each of the plurality of carrier signals of the inter-band carrier aggregated signals. An estimate of an envelope of a combination of the carrier signals is produced based on a sum of the calculated amplitudes of the plurality of carrier signals. The estimate of the envelope of the combination of the carrier signals is compared to a clipping threshold to determine whether to clip each of the plurality of carrier signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09236899&OS=09236899&RS=09236899
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09236899
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20140212
---
This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 831 339 filed Jun. 5 2013 entitled CREST FACTOR REDUCTION OF INTER BAND CARRIER AGGREGATED SIGNALS and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 886 317 filed Oct. 3 2013 entitled CREST FACTOR REDUCTION OF INTER BAND MULTI STANDARD CARRIER AGGREGATED SIGNALS the entirety of which both are incorporated herein by reference.

This written description is directed to radio transmitters and in particular to crest factor reduction of inter band carrier aggregated signals in radio transmitters of a communication system.

An absence of frequency spectrum bands that can support wide transmission bandwidths gives rise to intra band or inter band aggregation of multiple carriers according to specific sets of technical requirements. Such carrier aggregated signals have characteristics such as high peak to average power ratio PAPR also commonly referred to as crest factor CF and wide bandwidth. The amplification of these carrier aggregated signals by a single power amplifier PA poses several challenges. A PA is required to maintain good power efficiency over multiple frequency bands. This has motivated recent research attempts to develop high efficiency multiband and broadband devices such as Doherty PAs and envelope tracking systems. In addition due to the high CF of the carrier aggregated signals these PAs are often required to operate in the large back off region from their peak power to meet linearity requirements. Consequently these PAs yield poor power efficiency.

Several techniques have been devised for crest factor reduction CFR of single band signals and consequently enhance PA efficiency and reduce the dynamic range requirement imposed on digital to analog converters. These techniques can be divided into two categories distortion less methods commonly called linear CFR techniques such as selected mapping partial transmit sequence tone injection tone reservation and coding and distortion based methods also called nonlinear CFR techniques such as clipping windowing companding active constellation extension ACE and generalized ACE methods.

Linear techniques can achieve greater CF reduction than their nonlinear counterparts without altering signal quality. However linear techniques usually require modifications to the receiver that may be incompatible with existing communication systems. Linear techniques have been applied to multicarrier single standard signals through proper modulation and coding. However the generalization of linear techniques to carrier aggregated signals is not possible due to the dissimilarity between the modulation schemes employed in each carrier.

The nonlinear CFR techniques are generally carefully applied to obtain the highest possible CF reduction while not exceeding the distortion threshold. These techniques and in particular the clipping windowing technique have been applied to multi carrier signals co located in the same spectrum band. However application of clipping windowing techniques to carrier aggregated signals especially when each carrier is located in different and widely spaced frequency bands is very challenging because the clipping windowing techniques may require very high and thus impractical sampling rates.

A carrier aggregated signal over two bands such as shown in can be expressed as 1 where x t is the carrier aggregated signal x t and x t are the mixed mode signals in each band and tilde over x t tilde over x t denote the baseband envelopes of x t and x t around the angular frequencies and respectively. As shown in the individual signals x t and x t have bandwidths B1 and B2 respectively and are separated by a frequency gap S.

The carrier aggregated signal can be represented as a broadband signal with an angular carrier frequency

The classical clipping windowing nonlinear CFR technique can be applied to tilde over x t . In such case the CFR module may be a single input single output SISO unit that processes a digitized version of tilde over x t which is sampled at a frequency f where f 2 S max B 2 B 2 and S Band Brepresent the frequency spacing and the bandwidths of the two signals respectively. The digitized baseband signal tilde over x n can then be expressed as follows 

The classical clipping windowing method consists of monitoring the instantaneous amplitude of the signal envelope and limiting it to a preset threshold to obtain the targeted CF. A device for implementing the classical clipping windowing method is shown in . As can be seen in addition to the clipping and filtering modules the SISO CFR of includes an up sampler a digital up converter a down sampler and a down converter . As this technique is a nonlinear operation inband distortions and out of band spectrum regrowth are induced. In order to achieve an acceptable adjacent channel power ratio ACPR the clipped signal is filtered. The clipping threshold is set so that the CF is reduced while conforming to error vector magnitude EVM and ACPR specifications.

The frequency spacing S between the two carriers is generally significantly greater than the bandwidths of x t and x t i.e. Band B especially in the case of inter band aggregation scenarios. Hence f would need to be considerably larger than the frequencies fand fneeded to digitize tilde over x t and tilde over x t respectively f 2 B f 2 B .

For example assume a carrier aggregated signal is composed of a 15 MHz wide band code division multiple access WCDMA signal around 2.1 GHz and a 10 MHz long term evolution LTE signal centered in 2.4 GHz. For such a combination the minimum theoretical sampling frequency f must be higher than 610 MHz. This sampling frequency is significantly higher than the sampling frequencies needed to represent the WCDMA and LTE signals individually. The direct application of the SISO clipping windowing to tilde over x n is thus seen to imply a high and impractical sampling rate. The high sampling rate requirement associated with the conventional clipping and windowing approach makes this solution sub optimal in the context of inter band carrier aggregated signals.

The present invention advantageously provides a method and system for crest factor reduction of inter band multi standard carrier aggregated signals. According to one aspect the invention provides a method of reducing a crest factor of inter band carrier aggregated signals the inter band carrier signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals. The method includes calculating the amplitude of each of the plurality of carrier signals of the inter band carrier aggregated signals. An estimate of an envelope of a combination of the carrier signals is produced based on a sum of the calculated amplitudes of the plurality of carrier signals. The estimate of the envelope of the combination of the carrier signals is compared to a clipping threshold to determine whether to clip each of the plurality of carrier signals.

According to this aspect in some embodiments a ratio of the calculated amplitude of a first carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals to the estimated sum of the amplitudes of each of the plurality of carrier signals is formed. The ratio is multiplied by the clipping threshold to clip the first carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals. In some embodiments a first carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals is modulated as a wide band code division multiple access WCDMA carrier signal and a second carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals is modulated as a long term evolution LTE carrier signal. In some embodiments the method further includes filtering each clipped carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals to reduce out of band spectrum regrowth. In some embodiments the method includes clipping each carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals separately. In some embodiments a quantity of the plurality of carrier signals exceeds two. In some embodiments the method further includes sampling each of the plurality of carrier signals at a rate that is at least twice a maximum bandwidth of the bandwidths of the plurality of carrier signals. The sampling rate may be substantially less than a least frequency spacing between any two carrier signals.

According to another aspect the invention provides an apparatus for reducing a crest factor of inter band carrier aggregated signals the inter band carrier aggregated signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals. The apparatus includes a plurality of signal amplitude calculators one for each of the plurality of carrier signals. Each of the plurality of signal amplitude calculators is configured to calculate an amplitude of a corresponding carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals. An adder is configured to add the calculated carrier signal amplitudes to produce a composite signal that is an estimate of an envelope of the plurality of carrier signals. A plurality of clippers one for each of the plurality of carrier signals are configured to perform a clipping operation on a respective one of the plurality of carrier signals.

According to this aspect in some embodiments performance of the clipping operation of a clipper is contingent on the composite signal exceeding a clipping threshold. In some embodiments the clipping is based on a ratio of a calculated amplitude of the respective one of the plurality of carrier signals to the composite signal and the ratio is multiplied by the clipping threshold to clip the respective one of the plurality of carrier signals. In some embodiments a first carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals is modulated according to a first modulation scheme and a second carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals is modulated according to a second modulation scheme different from the first modulation scheme. In some embodiments the sampling rate is substantially less than a closest spacing between any two carrier signals of the plurality of carrier signals. In some embodiments each carrier is sampled at a rate that is substantially less than a closest spacing between any two carrier signals of the plurality of carrier signals.

According to another aspect the invention provides a crest factor reduction circuit. The circuit includes a plurality of inputs one input for each of a plurality of carrier signals. The circuit also includes a plurality of signal amplitude calculators. Each signal amplitude calculator is coupled to a different one of the plurality of inputs to receive a different one of the plurality of carrier signals and is configured to calculate an amplitude of the received carrier signal. An adder is configured to add the calculated amplitudes from the plurality of signal amplitude calculators to produce a composite signal producing an estimate of an envelope of the individual carrier signal amplitude estimates. A comparator is configured to compare the composite signal to a threshold to determine whether to clip amplitudes of the plurality of carrier signals.

According to this aspect in some embodiments the circuit further includes a clipper for each carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals to clip an amplitude of the corresponding carrier signal if the composite signal exceeds the threshold. In some embodiments each clipper forms a ratio of an estimated amplitude of a carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals to the composite signal and multiplies the ratio by the threshold to clip the carrier signal. In some embodiments the circuit includes a sampler to sample each carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals at a rate that is substantially less than a least frequency spacing between any two carrier signals of the plurality of carrier signals. In some embodiments the circuit includes a low pass filter applied to each clipped signal to reduce spectrum regrowth due to the clipping.

Before describing in detail exemplary embodiments that are in accordance with the present invention it is noted that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of apparatus components and processing steps related to crest factor reduction of inter band multi standard carrier aggregated signals. Accordingly the system and method components have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

As used herein relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or element from another entity or element without necessarily requiring or implying any physical or logical relationship or order between such entities or elements.

Referring now to the drawing figures where like reference designators refer to like elements there is shown in a dual input dual output DIDO crest factor reduction CFR system that includes a signal amplitude estimator SAE to compute the instantaneous amplitude of the carrier aggregated signal using the baseband signals of the two carriers as a first step of the CFR process. The SAE may be implemented using various types of hardware including but not limited to application specific integrated circuitry a digital signal processor or by a processor executing programmatic software to carry out the processing functions described herein. Such programmatic software may be stored in a non transitory memory device.

First the envelope of the carrier aggregated signal expression given in equation 2 can be rewritten as follows 

At time instant t the carrier aggregated signal envelope is given by tilde over x t tilde over x t tilde over x t e. Hence the carrier aggregation process yields an instantaneous full constructive addition even if the two carriers envelopes are out of phase i.e. tilde over x t tilde over x t tilde over x t . The envelope of the carrier aggregated signal is therefore given by

As a result the CF of the carrier aggregated signal can be estimated by monitoring the magnitude of the two carriers baseband signals. Furthermore equation 5 suggests that the envelope of tilde over x t can be obtained using the envelopes of tilde over x t and tilde over x t sampled at a rate f max f f . envelop . 6 Thus the envelope can be estimated as a sum of the amplitudes of the plurality of carrier signals sampled at a Nyquist rate that is a maximum of the Nyquist rates of the individual carrier signals. Since the bandwidth associated with the carrier signals is substantially less than a spacing between carrier signals the sampling of the envelope is at a rate that is substantially less than the spacing between the carrier signals. For example a typical bandwidth associated with a carrier signal may be 15 Mega Hertz whereas the spacing between carrier signals may be 300 Mega Hertz. Sampling at the Nyquist rate based on the bandwidth associated with a carrier signal would result in sampling at a rate of about 30 MHz which is substantially less than a sampling rate of 330 MHz i.e. less than the sampling rate by an order of 10 based on spacing between carrier signals. The amplitudes are computed by magnitude operators and the sum of the amplitudes of the plurality of carrier signals is obtained by an adder . The magnitude operators and the adder for computing the expression of equation 6 may be referred to collectively as a signal amplitude estimator SAE or signal amplitude calculator .

Thus one embodiment is an apparatus for reducing a crest factor of inter band carrier aggregated signals the inter band carrier aggregated signals comprising a plurality of carrier signals. The apparatus includes a plurality of signal amplitude calculators one for each of the plurality of carrier signals. Each of the plurality of signal amplitude calculators is configured to calculate an amplitude of a corresponding carrier signal of the plurality of carrier signals. The adder is configured to add the calculated carrier signal amplitudes to produce a composite signal that is an estimate of an envelope of the plurality of carrier signals. A plurality of clippers one for each of the plurality of carrier signals are configured to perform a clipping operation on a respective one of the plurality of carrier signals. The low pass filters reduce out of band spectrum regrowth. Note that although shows functionality for crest factor reduction of only two bands embodiments may provide crest factor reduction for signals with three or more bands by direct extension of the principles described with reference to .

Note that the results for two carriers described above can be extended straightforwardly to more than two carriers. A carrier aggregated signal over multi bands is given by 

In order to clip the signal x t by conventional means it may be modeled as one envelope signal around a carrier angular frequency given by a middle point of the two spectrum extremes 

Hence given an arbitrary clipping threshold Pk the CFR of a carrier aggregated signal can be obtained by clipping each carrier baseband signal as follows 

To test the method described above an inter band carrier aggregated signal was synthesized composed of a 10 MHz 2C WCDMA signal and a 15 MHz LTE signal separated by 300 MHz. Both the DIDO and SISO CFR approaches were applied to the synthezized carrier aggregated signal. The SISO CFR technique was carried out at a sampling frequency equal to f 610 MHz. Next the DIDO CFR technique was applied to the two separate baseband components and was performed at a sampling frequency equal to f 92.16 MHz. EVM performance of the two approaches vs. targeted PAPR is shown in and spectrum regrowth due to the nonlinear clipping operation is shown in . shows the error vector magnitude EVM performance for band 1 with SISO CFR EVM performance for band 2 with SISO CFR EVM performance for band 1 with DIDO CFR and EVM performance for band 2 with DIDO CFR . Clearly using the crest factor reduction methods described herein result in a substantial reduction in error vector magnitude. Similarly shows power versus frequency for SISO CFR DIDO CFR and DIDO CFR with filtering . Clearly the crest factor reduction methods described herein result in substantial reduction of out of band signals arising due to distortion.

In order to remove the out of band spectrum regrowth of the DIDO CFR the clipped signal is filtered by a filtering windowing process . Filtering results are given by the curve . It is noted that the filtering is not applied to the SISO CFR due to its poor performance. Table 1 summarizes the original signal characteristics and the results of the DIDO CFR with and without filtering. The PAPR of the original frequency aggregated signal is decreased from 10.5 dB to 9 dB with around 0.7 EVM. The clipping windowing iterations enable the removal of the spectrum regrowth at the cost of increasing the EVM to 1.3 which is still acceptable by different modulation schemes e.g. MSK BPSK etc.

Concerning the SISO CFR performance in addition to its high sampling rate of up to five times the Nyquist rate of the input signal it is shown in and that EVM and spectrum regrowth is significantly poor when compared to the DIDO CFR case. The EVM performance of the two approaches vs. targeted PAPR is shown in and spectrum regrowth due to the nonlinear clipping operation is shown in . shows EVM for band 1 with SISO CFR EVM for band 2 with SISO CFR EVM for band 1 with DIDO CFR and DIDO for band 2 with DIDO CFR . shows power versus frequency for SISO CFR DIDO CFR and DIDO CFR with filtering .

The original clipped and clipped and filtered signal characteristics for the synthesized inter band carrier aggregated signals discussed above are shown below in Table 2. Although the results are comparable with the high frequency separation case the spectrum plot of the SISO CFR signal in reveals the existence of intermodulation distortion components due to the nonlinear clipping operation acting on the two signals simultaneously. This is unlike the DIDO CFR case where each signal is clipped separately. Hence the SISO technique generates more distortion both in band and out of band.

In another example an inter band carrier aggregated signal was synthesized composed of a 15 MHz LTE signal 20 MHz 2C WCDMA signal and 5 MHz LTE signal. The first and second signals are separated by 100 MHz. The second and third signals are separated by 100 MHz too. Hence the overall signal separation is 200 MHz. Both the tri band and SISO CFR approaches were applied to the synthesized carrier aggregated signal. The SISO CFR technique was carried out at a sampling frequency equal to f 420 MHz. Next the tri band CFR technique was applied to the two separate baseband components and was performed at a sampling frequency equal to f 92.16 MHz. EVM performance of the two approaches vs. targeted PAPR is shown in and spectrum regrowth due to the nonlinear clipping operation is shown in . shows EVM for band 1 with SISO CFR EVM for band 2 with SISO CFR EVM for band 3 with SISO CFR EVM for band 1 with tri band CFR EVM for band 2 with tri band CFR and EVM for band 3 with tri band CFR . shows power versus frequency for SISO CFR tri band CFR and tri band CFR with filtering .

The original and clipped signal characteristics of the synthesized tri band carrier aggregated signals discussed above are summarized below in Table 3. It is shown that the tri band CFR has outperformed the SISO CFR for the same reason detailed above.

As an application of the technique described herein the output signal of the CFR was applied to two power amplifiers a 45 W GaN single ended PA and a 250 W LDMOS Doherty PA. Hence using the threshold of 2 as a maximum tolerable EVM the tri band CFR allowed for about 2 dB reduction in PAPR while the SISO approach was limited to a 0.5 dB reduction in PAPR. Efficiency results are shown in Table 4. It is shown that the achieved CFR of the test signal allows for significant improvement of the effective average power level by about 2 dB and an increase in power efficiency by up to 5 when the test signal is applied to two amplifiers under test.

A multiple input multiple output MIMO CFR technique suitable for inter band multi standard carrier aggregated signals over two and three bands has been described. Compared to the conventional single input single output CFR approach the proposed MIMO CFR allows for a significant decrease of the sampling rate which is made proportional to the maximum of the bandwidth of the two carriers rather than the spacing between them. The proposed CFR approach was demonstrated on a 300 MHz dual band and a 200 MHz tri band multi standard carrier aggregated waveform composed of LTE and WCDMA signals. The CF of the aggregated signal was successfully reduced from 11.3 dB to 9.5 dB while minimizing impacts on EVM and ACPR of the output signal. Note that although examples of crest factor reduction for only two and three bands is shown herein embodiments are not limited to two and three bands. Embodiments for crest factor reduction for more than three bands are contemplated and are a straightforward extension of the embodiments discussed herein.

By estimating the envelope of a combination of carrier signals based on a sum of estimated amplitudes of the individually carriers one may determine when to clip the carrier signals using a sampling rate that is about equal to twice the bandwidth of the individual carrier signals rather than at a sampling rate about equal to a spacing between the carrier signals.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described herein above. In addition unless mention was made above to the contrary it should be noted that all of the accompanying drawings are not to scale. A variety of modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention which is limited only by the following claims.

