---

title: Systems and methods for shopping detour during traffic congestion
abstract: A system or a method is provided to provide shopping detours to users during traffic congestions. In particular, the system may detect that a user is experiencing or is about to experience a traffic congestion. The system may then estimate the additional travel time needed to go through the traffic congestion. The system may also find shopping detours which allow the user to take the shopping detours to make purchases and still arrive at the final destination at about the same time as if the user stays in the original route with the traffic congestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09354065&OS=09354065&RS=09354065
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09354065
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140909
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for shopping detours during traffic congestion.

Consumers increasingly use electronic navigation devices to provide travel guidance and navigation. Although the electronic navigation devices may provide directions to various destinations consumers often still experience traffic congestion that cause travel delays. For example when a consumer is traveling home from work the consumer may experience rush hour traffic that causes delay. Although there may be alternative routes for the consumer to take these alternative routes may have the similar traffic delays due to the overall traffic congestion in the area. Therefore there is a need for a system or method that provides meaningful detours for the consumer during traffic congestion.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment a system or a method is provided to provide shopping detours to users during traffic congestion. In particular the system may detect that a user is experiencing or is about to experience a traffic congestion or delay. The system may then estimate the additional travel time needed to get through the traffic congestion and arrive at the desired destination. The system may also find shopping detours which allow the user to take the shopping detours to make purchases and still arrive at the final destination at about the same time as if the user had stayed on the original route with the traffic congestion or which allow the user to take a shopping detour and spend less total time shopping and driving than if the user stayed on the original route and did the shopping on a separate trip.

In an embodiment the system may analyze the user s purchase history to do list search history watch list wish list calendar or the like to determine items or services the user may desire to purchase. The system may find merchants that offer the desired items or services that are located near the traffic congestion or in route to the final destination. The system may estimate the time required to take an alternate route to make purchases including detour travel time traffic conditions along the detour route check out line at the merchant availability of items or services at the merchant expected time to finish shopping and get back on a route to a desired destination estimated traffic conditions along a route to the desired destination and drive time after the user has finished shopping and the like. The system may compare the additional time caused by the traffic congestion with the time for taking the shopping detours and may present a list of possible shopping detours to the user. The possible shopping detours may allow the user to take one or more of the shopping detours and still save on total time such as arriving at the final destination at about the same time as if the user had stayed on the original route or arriving after an estimated time with traffic but spending less time driving to the destination with traffic and then later doing the shopping. The user may select and accept a shopping detour and the system may provide recommended directions to the user to take for the one or more shopping destinations. For example even though a route to a desired shopping destination may be shorter if the user stayed on the current route a longer route may be recommended to save time such as by exiting the current route and proceeding along a longer but faster route.

The system may also access the user s calendar to determine when the user may need to be at a certain location or destination. Based on that the system may recommend staying on the current route with congestion even though taking a shopping detour may save overall time because the user would not be able to make it to the calendar appointment by taking the shopping detour.

Thus a user may save time by taking a detour to make one or more purchases to allow traffic congestion or delays to reduce even though the user may not need to make the purchase at that time.

In an embodiment the system may provide incentives such as coupons or discounts along with shopping detour suggestions. These may allow merchants to advertise to consumers during traffic congestion. In an embodiment the system may allow the user to browse and order the item or service while in route to the merchant. As such the user may pick up the purchased item at the merchant quickly. In an embodiment the system may estimate and compare not only the travel time but also the travel cost e.g. gasoline or electricity cost of the shopping detour with those of the original route with traffic congestion. Thus the user may compare the travel time along with other travel cost to decide whether to take a shopping detour and or which shopping detour to take.

System may include a user device a merchant server and a payment provider server in communication over a network . Payment provider server may be maintained by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to perform a transaction using payment provider server . User may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information etc. For example user may utilize user device to initiate a deposit into a savings account. Although only one merchant server is shown a plurality of merchant servers may be utilized if the user is purchasing products or services from multiple merchants.

User device merchant server and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network . Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer automobile console and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account for setting up a shopping list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing products and services. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. User device also may include a positioning device such as a Global Positioning System GPS a gyroscope or other devices configured to detect a position and movement of the user device .

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services. The merchant may have a physical point of sale POS store front. The merchant may be a participating merchant who has a merchant account with the payment service provider. Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as banks and retailers. For example a payment may be a donation to charity or a deposit to a saving account. Merchant server may include a database identifying available products including digital goods and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also may include a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Merchant server also may include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services online or at a physical POS or store front. Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID . Checkout application may be configured to receive payment via a plurality of payment methods including cash credit cards debit cards checks money orders or the like.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device .

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as banks or credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which and when funding sources are used.

In some embodiments payment provider server may store purchase history of various items purchased by user . Payment provider server may analyze purchase history to determine user s purchase preferences merchant preferences and or potential purchase targets. Payment provider server also may have access to user s calendar schedule to do list emails social network accounts and the like. Payment provider server may analyze these accounts to infer purchase preferences or purchase targets. In an embodiment payment provider sever may store travel history of the user including routes taken by the user or places or merchants visited by the user . The travel history may be used to infer user s travel preferences.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from user device and or merchant server for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment using various selected funding instruments including for initial purchase and payment after purchase as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order from individual users including funding source used credit options available etc. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary.

At step payment provider server may monitor user purchase preferences. For example when user uses user device to search or browse various products or services payment provider server may determine a potential purchase target based on user s browsing or search history. For example user may have been searching or browsing various types of laptops using user device the browsing and searching history related to the various types of laptops may be sent to payment provider server .

In one embodiment user may give permission to payment provider server to access the browsing or search history at user device . Payment provider server may analyze the browsing history and search history and determine that user is looking to purchase a laptop. In particular payment provider server may determine the type of laptop user is looking for. Thus the type of the laptop may be designated as a purchase target. User s purchase history also may be used to determine the user s purchase preference. For example the type of products or services that had been purchased by user the merchants from which user had made purchases or the time and location where user made purchases may be monitored and stored as a user purchase preference. In another example payment provider server may determine routine purchases such as groceries daily necessities or the like that are purchased by the user routinely. Payment provider server may determine the purchase routine frequency and may determine the user likely is ready to make the routine purchase again soon. For example the payment provider server may determine that the user typically purchases milk once a week on Friday. The payment provider server may then infer that the user may wish to purchase milk this Friday.

In an embodiment user may give permission to payment provider server to access user s calendar to do list schedule wish list social network accounts contact lists travel history and the like. The payment provider server may analyze this information and may determine purchase preference and or purchase targets from this information. For example based on the user s to do list and social network the payment provider server may determine that a friend s birthday is coming up and the user may wish to purchase a birthday gift for the friend. In another example payment provider server may analyze the user s travel history and may determine routine travel routes such as commuting from home to work taken by the user . Payment provider server may identify merchants along user s routine travel routes and possible shopping detours or destinations.

At step payment provider server may collect user purchase history. For example when user uses user device or an account with the payment provider to make a purchase payment provider server may collect information related to the purchase including the identity and type of items purchased price of the item purchased location and time of purchase merchant from whom the purchase was made or other information related to the purchase. In an embodiment payment provider server may have access to user s account at various merchants and may determine user s purchase and or browsing history at the merchants based on the user s account at these merchants. Payment provider server also may access the user s electronic wallet and electronic coupons. For example the user may save or designate certain electronic coupons to be used later. Payment provider server may determine purchase preference or purchase targets based on these saved electronic coupons.

At step payment provider server may infer the user s purchase targets or desired purchase items based on various information collected as noted above. The purchase target may be inferred from routine purchases or from routine merchants whom the user frequently visits. For example the payment provider server may determine that the user typically visits an auto mechanic shop to receive oil change service on the user s car once every three months. The payment provider server may determine that an oil change service is a purchase target when the time for an oil change in the three month cycle is coming up soon.

The purchase target may be inferred from the user s wish list to do list calendar and or social network. For example the user may have a task of purchasing a birthday card for the user s friend on the user s to do list and the user s social network account indicates that the friend s birthday is coming up soon. The payment provider server may determine that a birthday card or gift is a purchase target. In an embodiment the purchase target may be inferred from environmental conditions detected by the user device . For example the user device may detect the time of the day the season of the year the weather condition and or forecast or the like. These environmental conditions may be used to infer a purchase target. If it s during meal time purchase targets related to food products or services may be inferred. If the weather is too hot or too cold services or products associated with outdoor activities may be avoided. If a car console detects that the user s car needs gas or certain maintenance the purchase targets may include gas station or auto mechanics. Even if the car does not need gas right away but may need gas the next day a gas station may be a suggested purchase target if it enables traffic congestion to reduce during the time it takes the user to detour to a gas station get gas and get back on a route. If the car console or the user device detects that the user is falling asleep or has low energy for example by monitoring the user s heart beat or tracking the user s eye movement purchase targets such as coffee shops rest areas or rest stops may be inferred.

In an embodiment the payment service provider may calculate a probability score for each target purchase item. The probability score may represent a likelihood that the user intends to or desires to purchase the item. The probability score may be determined based on whether the item is a routine purchase. For example if the item is consistently purchased many times as a regular routine the probability score is higher. The probability score also may be determined based on the number sources the item is inferred from. For example if the target purchase item is inferred from multiple sources such as from the user s social network the user s calendar and the user s to do list the target purchase item may have a higher probability score.

The probability score also may be determined based on the type of sources the item is inferred from. For example a target purchase item inferred from the user s to do list may have a higher probability score than another target purchase item inferred from the user s watch list because the user s to do list indicates that the user has decided to make the purchase while the user s watch list merely indicates that the user is interested in an item. The probability score may be used to determine whether the user is about to or is intending to purchase an item. For example when the probability score of an item is above a predetermined threshold the item may be designated as a purchase target which the user is intending to or desires to purchase. The predetermined threshold may be adjusted to increase or decrease the number of designated purchase targets.

By using the above process various information may be collected to infer purchase targets that the user may wish to purchase. In particular information such as purchase history browsing history to do list wish list customer accounts calendar social network accounts and the like may be used to infer purchase targets that the user may wish to purchase.

At step the system may identify traffic incidents near the user or along the user s route to the final destination. The traffic incidents may be general congestion due to overcrowding. The traffic incidents may be a car accident or road construction that causes traffic congestion. Information about the traffic incidents may be received from a third party service that provides traffic information to consumers. Information about traffic incidents also may be received from other users via crowd sourcing. In an embodiment traffic incidents may be identified based on traffic history. For example routine traffic congestion during certain rush hours may be identified at certain locations based on the traffic history. Information about the traffic incident may include type of incident effect of the incident such as traffic lane reduction distance range of the traffic incident stretch of traffic delay speed of traffic through the incident and other information about the traffic incident. In some embodiments multiple traffic incidents near the user or along the user s route may be identified.

At step the system may determine traffic delay for the user due to the traffic incident. In particular the system may estimate the additional travel time that will be caused by the traffic incident. The traffic delay may be determined based on how far the user currently is from the traffic congestion the distance stretch of the traffic congestion the speed of traffic in the traffic congestion the speed of the traffic flow before and after the traffic congestion speed limit and the like. The traffic delay also may be determined based on how long the traffic congestion will last. For example based on traffic history time intervals of routine traffic congestion may be used to determine how long a typical traffic congestion will last. This information may be used to determine whether the traffic congestion will still be there when the user reaches the location of the traffic congestion. In some embodiments multiple traffic incidents may be identified and the traffic delays resulted from multiple traffic incidents may be estimated and aggregated.

At step the system may determine shopping detour options in view of the identified traffic congestion. The system may determine the user s potential purchase targets as noted in step . For example purchase targets may be inferred from information such as user s purchase history browsing history search history to do list wish list watch list calendar contact list social network and the like. The system then may select potential purchase targets that are most likely to be purchased and or desired by the user based on the probability scores of the items as noted in step . The system may also determine whether the user has coupons or discounts that are associated with these potential targets. The system then may determine whether there are merchants near the user near or along the travel route or along an alternative travel route to the user s desired final destination who offer the purchase targets for sale. The purchase targets may be products services or any items that may be purchased by the user.

After the merchants who offer the purchase targets for sale are identified the system may determine the detour routes to the respective merchants. The detour routes may provide directions from the user s current location to the respective merchants avoiding the traffic congestions and then to the original final destination. In some embodiments a detour route may include detours to multiple merchants. The system may estimate the time required to take the shopping detour. The time required for taking the shopping detour may include travel time to one or more merchants shopping time at the merchant and travel time from one or more merchants back to the original destination. To estimate travel time to the merchant the system may consider traffic conditions near the merchant or along the route to the merchant speed of traffic flow number of traffic lights traffic conditions along the route from the merchant back to the original destination and the like. This traffic information may be obtained from a third party provider of traffic information or from other users by crowd sourcing.

To estimate shopping time at the merchant the system may consider whether the store is crowded condition of the check out lines at the merchant availability of the item desired by the user wait time at the merchant for service merchant availability of parking spaces at the merchant type of service desired estimated service time and the like. This information at the merchant s store may be provided by the merchant a third party or from other users by crowd sourcing. In some embodiments shopping time at the merchant may be estimated based on the user s previous visits to the merchant. For example if the user has visited the merchant before the system may estimate the user s shopping at the merchant based on an average shopping time of the previous visits to the merchant.

In another embodiment the system may estimate the service time at the merchant based on the user s previous service time at the merchant. For example based on previous visits to the same auto mechanic the system may determine that a typical visit to the same auto mechanic is about 45 minutes for an oil change. The system may allow the merchants such as service merchants to post or input estimated service time for various types or services. In an embodiment the system may receive business condition history from various merchants and may estimate a wait time or service time for respective merchants based on their business condition history. For example the business condition history of a merchant may include routine patterns of business condition indicating how crowded the merchant store is during different times of the day different days of the week different months or seasons of the year. As such the business condition history may be used to estimate how crowded the merchant store will be when the user visits the store.

The system may estimate the time for taking the shopping detours to respective merchants based on the respective detour travel time and shopping time. In some embodiments the time for taking a shopping detour to multiple merchants also may be estimated. Based on the estimated additional travel time that would be caused by the traffic congestion the system may identify various options for shopping detours. For example if the traffic congestion is estimated to cause 45 minutes of additional travel time the system may identify shopping detours that will take about 40 to 50 minutes such that the user may take one of these shopping detours and still arrive at the destination at about the same time as if the user had stayed in the original route with the traffic congestion. In some embodiments the system may determine the estimated arrival time to the final destination for both the original route and the detours. Thus the user may compare these estimated arrival times for taking the original route and for taking different shopping detours.

In an embodiment the system may select or suggest shopping detour routes that allow the user to visit and shop at one or more merchants and still arrive at the final destination at about the same time as if the user had stayed on the original route. In another embodiment the system may select or suggest shopping detour routes that allow the user to visit and shop at one or more merchants and arrive at the final destination faster than if the user had stayed on the original route. For example the system may check the user s calendar or schedule and may determine that the user has an appointment at the final destination at a certain time. As such it is important that the user arrives at the final destination before the certain time. Thus the system may select or suggest shopping detour routes that allow the user to arrive at the final destination with spare time to attend the appointment. In still another embodiment the system may select or suggest shopping detour routes that allow the user to save on the total travel time. For example the total time for taking the shopping detour routes may be less than the total time of staying on the original route and taking a separate trip to one or more merchants. Based on the user s preference the system may suggest shopping detours accordingly.

In an embodiment the system may estimate and compare the travel cost for staying in the original route with the traffic congestion and the travel cost for taking a shopping detour. In particular the system may estimate the travel cost for staying in the original route with the traffic congestion. For example the travel cost for staying in the traffic congestion may include gas expense wear on the car and the like. Depending on the type of vehicle miles per gallon MPG of the vehicle the driving style of the user the delay time of the traffic congestion the speed of the traffic flow through the traffic congestion and the like the additional gas used due to the traffic congestion may be estimated. Similarly the travel cost for taking the shopping detour may be estimated based on the distance of detour the speed of traffic flow for the detour route the type of vehicle MPG of the vehicle driving style of the user parking cost and the like. The travel cost for staying in the original route with traffic congestion and the travel cost for taking a shopping detour may be estimated for the user s comparison. Thus the user may make decision on whether to take the shopping detour based on the travel cost comparison.

The traveling cost may be estimated for each shopping detour option. Thus the user may compare the travel cost between different shopping detour options. In an embodiment the system also may estimate the travel time and travel cost for taking a non shopping detour in which a detour is taken to avoid the traffic congestion without visiting any merchants. Thus the user may compare the travel time and cost for taking a non shopping detour with those of the original route and the different shopping detours.

At step the system may present options for shopping detours to the user. In particular information regarding the options for shopping detours may be displayed to the user at user device . The options for shopping detours may be displayed as a list of detours to various merchants. The information may include the name of the merchant type of service or product offered at the merchant the purchase target inferred the price of the purchase target wait time at the merchant travel time for the detour to the merchant travel cost for the detour and the like. The estimated time for the shopping detour may be listed next to the estimated time delay due to the traffic congestion such that the user may compare and decide whether to take the shopping detour. In an embodiment the estimated travel cost for the shopping detour may be listed next to the estimated travel cost for staying in the original route with the traffic congestion.

In an embodiment the list of options for shopping detours may be displayed to the user in an order of inferred desirability of the purchase target. As noted above a probability score may be calculated for each purchase target indicating how likely the purchase target is desired by the user or how likely the user intends to purchase the purchase target. The options for shopping detours may be displayed based on the probability score of the purchase target. In another embodiment the list of options for shopping detours may be displayed based on how much the time for the shopping detour matches the delay time of the traffic congestion. For example if the estimated traffic delay time is 30 minutes the system may find shopping detours that take about the same amount of time of 30 minutes. The options of shopping detours that matches closely to 30 minutes may be displayed first on the list. In an embodiment the list of option for shopping detours may be listed based on the travel costs for the different shopping detours. In still another embodiment the user may be allowed to choose how the list of options for shopping detours is displayed. In an embodiment the system may determine merchants that are located near each other and may determine a shopping detour for visiting multiple nearby merchants.

In an embodiment the system may analyze the user s schedule or calendar and may determine that the user needs to be at the final destination at a particular time. If no other detours are available that allow the user to arrive at the final destination at or before the particular time the system may suggest that the user stay on the original route without taking a shopping detour. In an embodiment the system may suggest a longer route to the final destination because the longer route may allow the user to arrive at the final destination faster due to better traffic conditions higher speed limits or less traffic lights on the longer route.

At step the system may receive user s response or selection of shopping detours from the list of options. The user may decline all options of shopping detours and decide to stay on the original route with the traffic congestion. In this case the system may continue to navigate the user on the original route. In another scenario the user may review the list and may not see any desirable shopping detour options. In this case the system may allow the user to search for shopping detours to other merchants. For example the user may enter a product or service that the user wishes to purchase. The system may search for merchants near the user or near the original travel route that offer the product or service. The system may then determine shopping detours to these merchants and present them to the user at step . In a scenario the user may select one shopping detour option. At step the system may then present the directions for the selected shopping detour to the user at user device .

In an embodiment the system may allow the user to select two or more shopping detour options to form a combined shopping detour. For example from a list of shopping detours to different merchants the user may select a first merchant and a second merchant. In response to the multiple selections the system may automatically determine a new shopping detour including these two selected merchants. The shopping detour may provide directions to these two selected merchants. Further the system may calculate a new estimated shopping time for this new detour including the total shopping time for the user to visit and purchase items from these two merchants. A new travel cost and or a new arrival time to the final destination for the new shopping detour to multiple merchants also may be calculated and presented to the user .

In an embodiment after the user selects a shopping detour to one or more merchants the system may allow the user to pre order products or make service appointment at the merchants such that the user may simply pick up the products or the merchants may be ready to render services to the user when the user arrives at the merchants. The shopping time may be reduced by pre ordering products or services before the user arrives at the merchants. In an embodiment the system may automatically search and identify coupons or discounts related to the merchants or products selected by the user . The system may allow the user to select and save the coupons to be used for the user s visit to the merchants.

By using the above processes and potential purchase targets that the user intends to purchase or desires to purchase may be identified via purchase history browsing history to do list wish list calendar social networks and the like. When the user is experiencing or is about to experience traffic congestion along a travel route the system may automatically determine and suggest shopping detours to the user based on the estimated delay of the traffic congestion. The system may allow the user to select a preferred shopping detour and may provide directions to navigate the user to the merchant. Thus the system allows the user to take a shopping detour to avoid traffic congestion and still arrive at the final destination at about the same time as though the user stays on the original route.

The above processes and may be implemented at the user device . In an embodiment the above processes and may be implemented at the payment provider server or the merchant device . In still another embodiment the above processes and may be implemented by the user device the payment provider server and or the merchant device in coordination with each other. Note that the various steps described herein may be performed in a different order combined and or omitted as desired.

A user uses a mobile device to provide travel navigation and direction. Based on the user s instructions the mobile device maps a route from work to home for the user. However based on information received from traffic information provider services the mobile device determines that there is a traffic incident along the route that will cause delays in the drive time. As such the mobile device may begin to determine different options of shopping detours for the user. Based on the user s to do list the user needs to purchase milk and eggs. Also based on the user s social network and calendar the user needs to purchase flowers for an anniversary. Further based on the user s browsing history and wish list the user wishes to purchase a hat. These potential purchase targets are inferred from various information about the user. The system may then search for merchants near the user along an alternate route to the user s home or near the route that offer the potential purchase target for sale.

A grocery store is found that offers milk and eggs for sale. A florist shop also is found that offers flowers for sale. A department store is found that offers various apparel and hats for sale. Further based on the user s purchase history the system also determines that the user s car is due for oil change. Thus an auto mechanic shop is found that offers oil change service. The system may determine detour routes to these respective merchants and travel time and cost and shopping or service time at these merchants. The travel time and travel cost for different detour options may be compared with the travel time and cost of the original route which includes the traffic congestion. For example the travel delay for the original route is about 50 minutes. The shopping detour to the grocery store is 40 minutes to the florist shop is 35 minutes to the department store is an hour and to the auto mechanic shop is one hour and 10 minutes. The delays may be based on just a single stop to the specific merchant or be based on various combinations of the different merchants such as grocery store and florist shop grocery store florist and department store etc. .

The information for different shopping detours may be presented to the user at the user s mobile device based on their shopping time. For example shopping detours that have shopping times closest to the traffic time delay of the original route may be presented first shopping detour to the grocery store and shopping detour to the florist shop . Detours provided first may also be ones that save the user the most overall time factoring in the time the user would take to make a purchase if the user had to make a separate trip. The user may also be presented with the cost of gasoline for taking each shopping detour as compared with the cost of gasoline staying on the original route. Because the florist shop and the grocery store are located near each other the user selects both the grocery store and the florist shop for shopping detour. The system automatically generates a new shopping detour for visiting both the grocery shop and the florist shop. The travel and shopping time of 50 minutes is estimated for the new shopping detour. The system also allows the user to browse and pre order milk eggs and flowers from these merchants which may be prepared and ready for the user s pick up. Thus the user is presented with options for shopping detours to avoid the traffic congestion. The user is able to select shopping detours to pick up needed products and still arrives at home at about the same time as if the user stays on the original route with the traffic congestion.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the Rum of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

