---

title: Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for third-party applications
abstract: Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile are provided. Exemplary methods include receiving a request from a member of a web-based social network to access a third-party application, providing privacy settings selections to control access to data associated with the installed application, receiving a privacy settings selection from the member, and providing to the third party application information about the user subject to the received privacy settings selections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129134&OS=09129134&RS=09129134
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09129134
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140815
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 057 376 filed Oct. 18 2013 allowed which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 154 886 filed May 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 627 506 issued Jan. 7 2014 which claims the benefit and priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 931 851 filed on May 24 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to social networks and more particularly to systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile.

Conventionally web based social networks provide privacy settings to allow a member of the social network to control what other people i.e. other members non members and or computer users may access and or view about that member. For example a social network member may only want people that attend school with the member to view information about that member. Typically the privacy settings are provided in association with a member profile on the social network. The member profile may include detailed information about the member of the social network. A problem with conventional privacy settings however is that the privacy settings do not control data generated by various computing applications in response to member input. Additionally conventional privacy settings fail to address the needs required by each member based on the type of computing application utilized by the member. Consequently there is a need for systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile.

Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile are provided. Exemplary methods include receiving a request from a member of a web based social network to access an application in association with a member profile providing privacy settings selections to control access to data associated with the installed application receiving a privacy settings selection from the member and allowing the third party application access to user data based on the privacy settings selection.

Exemplary systems include a communications interface configured to receive a request from a member of a web based social network to access an application in association with a member profile a privacy settings module configured to provide a privacy settings selection to the member to control access to data associated with the installed application and to receive a privacy settings selection from the member and the communications interface further configured to send data associated with the user to the application based on the privacy settings selection.

Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a web based social network member profile are provided. When a member of a web based social network installs a computing application or otherwise allows access to a computing application that interacts with or integrates data associated with the social network privacy settings selections are provided for the member to control access and or viewing by other members of the social network. The computing applications may be made available via a product directory. The product directory may provide computing applications for installation internally through a member s profile. The product directory may also provide computing applications for installation externally or through sites associated with the computing applications separate from the social network. Privacy setting selections for the applications installed internally may be made by a member or privacy settings selections for external applications may be made under the terms of service to which the member assents in order to install the external applications. The data associated with the applications may be displayed to one or more second members based on the privacy settings selections.

According to one exemplary embodiment one or more members N communicate via the network to the social network engine . The network may comprise any electronic wired wireless and or mobile network including the Internet. The members N are typically members of a social networking website and the social networking website may be associated with the social network engine and or the applications engine . Each of the members N may have a profile profile page or the like in a profile database that may be stored on a server in communication with the social network engine and or the applications engine . The profile may include information about the respective member N such as name address interests political and religious views affiliations e.g. school geographic community and or employer pictures friends and so forth. The members N may access or interact with the social network via a computing device such as a laptop or desktop computer a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a set top box and so forth. The members N may view and or access data about other social network members in addition to themselves or interact with the other social network members via the social network engine by entering data about themselves e.g. into their respective personal profiles or by joining social network groups and so forth.

The applications engine according to various exemplary embodiments may provide one or more computing applications for installation on in association with and or accessing from a member s profile. An application may be accessed via a link pasted to the member profile or via an application installed within the member profile. Applications installed from within the member profile may comprise profile applications or platform applications. The applications may be developed by third party entities outside of the social network third party applications by the social network and or by members of the social network.

According to one exemplary embodiment a member N might install a movie related application on their profile. The movie related application might be provided by an online company that ships movie rentals to its customers. The application may be made available to the member for installation via an application programming interface API . For example the member may access the application from the social network via the API by pasting or clicking a link to the application within their profile or by using a similar mechanism that allows a shortcut to the application. Following installation of the movie related application data about the movie related application might be displayed on or near the member s profile. Data about the movie related application might be displayed elsewhere such as on the member s computer desktop. The movie related application may be able to access and incorporate data from the member s profile page e.g. the member s interests education hobbies etc in order to make movie rental recommendations for the member. Such information may be displayed to the member and to whoever else the member may allow to access and view the information via the privacy settings selections described herein.

The applications engine in accordance with the social network engine according to various embodiments may provide privacy settings selections related to the display of data about a chosen application such as the movie related application on the member profile as described herein. Thus via the applications engine the member might select other members that may view data about the movie related application on the member s profile. For example the member may determine those other members that may view the member s most recent movie rentals.

Referring now to a block diagram of an exemplary applications engine associated with a social network environment is illustrated. The exemplary applications engine comprises a communications interface a privacy summary module a privacy settings module and a profile module .

According to one exemplary embodiment the communications interface may be provided for communicating data between the social network engine and applications installed on a profile of a member of a social network. For example a member s selection of a recommended movie displayed by a movie related application on the member s profile may comprise data exchanged between the social network engine and the application via the communications interface .

The privacy settings module in various exemplary embodiments may be configured for allowing a member to select various privacy settings selections related to an application. For example the member may limit the display of the application on the member s profile to those members of the social network that the member has designated as the friends of the member. The privacy settings module may provide most any type of selections for privacy settings associated with the display of data associated with an application.

In one exemplary embodiment the privacy summary module may generate a privacy summary such as an explanatory paragraph of the privacy settings selections made by a member with respect to applications installed and or accessed by the member.

The profile module according to one embodiment may be configured to direct storage of a member s privacy settings selections. For example the privacy summary module may utilize data from the profile module to generate the privacy summary discussed herein. Most any type of data may be generated and or stored by the profile module . Further most any type of data about a member may be accessed via the profile module . The profile module may control access to data about the member in accordance with the privacy settings module . In other words the profile module may display data about applications installed on a member s profile to only those members selected by the member as indicated by the privacy settings module .

Although shows various modules in association with the applications engine fewer or more modules may be provided and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

According to various exemplary embodiments when some of my is selected from a drop down menu for a particular application a further list may allow a member to select further privacy settings selections for which networks friends and so forth may view data related to the particular application. Additionally screenshot shows that the member has selected only my friends view data about the U.S. Politics application. Thus if the U.S. Politics application indicates the member s party affiliation only the member s friends grouping may view the member s party affiliation and any other data indicated by the application on the member s profile.

Screenshot also shows a list of external applications. In one embodiment a logged in status indicates to a member which applications the member is presently logged into. An option to remove each of the external applications is also provided. The external applications may represent applications installed outside of a member s profile wherein with the member may have assented to the terms of service associated with the external applications such as the sharing or use of the member s data from within the social network. In order to revoke permissions to access the member s data the member may need to remove the particular external application. It may also be possible to install the same external application as a profile application where the member may control the data other members may see about the application on the member s profile.

According to a further embodiment a scaled representation of privacy settings selections for an application may be displayed. As shown in screenshot a U.S. Politics application is accompanied by a relatively short line representation shown to the right of the text descriptions of the privacy settings selections in screenshot when compared to the line representation for the My Space application because fewer members are selected to access data related to the U.S. Politics application in the member s profile. Although line representations are shown in screenshot any scaled representation may be provided according to some embodiments such as a shaded bubble.

As shown in screenshot according to one embodiment the member may check all of the boxes uncheck all of the boxes or restore defaults by making a selection at the bottom of screenshot and then selecting save or cancel to confirm or deny the selections. By checking one or more of the boxes representing profile data associated with the member the member consents to sharing the member s names networks and list of friends with the profile applications discussed herein.

Further as shown in the privacy settings selections for profile or platform applications the external applications and or the other applications may be accessed by selecting one or more tabs associated with each of the application categories.

As shown in screenshot options to block certain other members and or to limit access to a member s profile may be accessed via the privacy overview screen in some embodiments. An edit settings option is provided on the privacy overview screen for accessing the category with which privacy settings may be edited such as the Facebook Platform from which applications may be installed.

At step a request from a member to install an application in association with a member profile is received. According to one exemplary embodiment a social network engine such as the exemplary social network engine may receive a request from a member such as member A to install an application or to access to an application . The request may represent a request for a profile application or a platform application.

At step an application or access to an application may be installed in response to the received request. As discussed herein installing a profile application generates a box or other display on the requesting member s profile. For example installing a stock market application may generate a stock market display box on the member s profile page. Alternatively if the member installs the stock market application directly from the stock market application provider rather than via the social network engine a display box with the stock market application data may not be displayed on the member s profile. For example the member may access an external application by installing the external application on a computing device associated with the member and assenting to terms of service from the social network so that the social network may share certain member data with the external application.

At step a privacy settings selection to control access to data associated with the installed application may be provided. For example the privacy settings selections for the stock market application may be provided to the member who installed the application in order for the member to determine which of the member s networks may access and or view related data from the member s profile page such as suggested stock purchases provided to the member by the stock market application.

At step one or more privacy settings selections are received from a member. In one exemplary embodiment a member submits a privacy settings selection for a particular application. Screenshot shows the various exemplary privacy settings selections that may be received for various applications such as the Chumby and University Ave. Restaurants applications. Any number of privacy settings selections for any number of applications may be received from a member.

At step data associated with the installed application may be displayed based on the received privacy settings selection. For example the data related to the stock market application may be displayed to all of a member s friends based on the member making the privacy settings selection of all my friends for the stock market application.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. For example any of the elements associated with the applications engine may employ any of the desired functionality set forth herein. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. Further as these embodiments are described with reference to illustrations various modifications or adaptations of the methods and or specific structures described may become apparent to those skilled in the art. The herein described components and functions can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a computer readable storage medium. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the invention. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

