---

title: Mobile communication device stateful applications system
abstract: A mobile communication device. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver, a processor, a memory, and a subscription applications management application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor, the management application monitors a subscription applications account status, presents a catalog of a plurality of subscription applications available for downloading via the radio transceiver, and responsive to a disabled status of the subscription applications account status, blocks execution of downloaded subscription applications. The management application further receives a request to export state information of a specified downloaded subscription application to one of a subscription application executing on another electronic device, a corresponding owned application executing on the mobile communication device, or a corresponding owned application executing on another electronic device, and exports state information of the specified downloaded subscription application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491231&OS=09491231&RS=09491231
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09491231
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140626
---
Mobile communication devices may be used to make telephone calls and to connect to the Internet. Mobile communication devices may provide an execution platform for a variety of applications such as games internet browsers navigation tools social networking tools and others. In some cases users may be able to select applications stored in an application repository or in an application store download the application and install them on the mobile communication device using an application installer provided by an operating system of the mobile communication device. For example a mobile communication device having an Android operating system may use a Google Play application to download and install an application.

Some applications are associated with a state. For example a game may be associated with a point score state that changes over time as the user plays the game during a single session and that may accumulate over multiple sessions. A game may grant a player access to higher levels as the user becomes more proficient and or as the user completes game challenges or move sequences. A game may provide the player an ability to build a user profile or personality over time. A game may involve the player building within the imaginary world of the game a business enterprise a defensive position or other like item. An application may store interactions of the user that may be useful for performing future services for the user for example a navigation program may store previously entered navigation destinations. Application state may include one or more of game score accumulated game score game player level articulated user profile or personality stored navigational locations and the like.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver a processor a memory and a subscription applications management application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the management application monitors a subscription applications account status presents a catalog of a plurality of subscription applications available for downloading via the radio transceiver and responsive to a disabled status of the subscription applications account status blocks execution of downloaded subscription applications. The management application further receives a request to export state information of a specified downloaded subscription application to one of a subscription application executing on another electronic device a corresponding owned application executing on the mobile communication device or a corresponding owned application executing on another electronic device and exports state information of the specified downloaded subscription application.

In an embodiment another mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver a processor a memory a subscription applications management application stored in the memory and a subscription application stored in the memory wherein the subscription application comprises a wrapper. When executed by the processor the management application presents a catalog of a plurality of subscription applications available for downloading via the radio transceiver and receives a request to export state information of a specified downloaded subscription application to one of a subscription application executing on another electronic device or a corresponding owned application executing on the mobile communication device. The application further exports state information of the specified downloaded subscription application. When the subscription application is executed by the processor the wrapper checks a status of a subscription associated with the subscription applications management application and responsive to a disabled status of the subscription disables full execution of the subscription application.

In an embodiment a method of managing subscription applications is disclosed. The method comprises reading a catalog of subscription applications stored in a memory of a mobile communication device presenting the catalog of subscription applications on a display of the mobile communication device and receiving a selection of a subscription application from among a plurality of subscription applications presented on the display. The method further comprises determining if a subscription account associated with the catalog of subscription applications is enabled. Responsive to determining an enabled status of the subscription account downloading the selected subscription application via a radio transceiver of the mobile communication device by a subscription applications management application where the subscription applications management application is not encapsulated in an operating system of the mobile communication device. The method further comprises maintaining a state of the selected subscription application receiving a request to export the state of the selected subscription application and exporting the state of the selected subscription application.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Challenges may be experienced by users of electronic devices who may wish to use the same or related applications on different platforms. The conventional model is to think of these applications installed on different platforms as completely separated as though existing on isolated islands. But users who build state or status in one of the applications may want to enjoy the benefits of that state or status in the corresponding application on a different electronic device. For example a user may install a game application on a computer and a corresponding version of the game application on a mobile phone. The user will not appreciate being unable to enjoy the benefits of earned skill levels and or accumulated scores when alternating game play between the two different electronic devices. Providing a system and or framework that promotes bridging sharing transferring state between corresponding applications installed on different electronic devices or execution platforms can promote greater user adaption of technology and acceptance of multi platform applications. Additionally this capability may promote ease of selling different ownership or leasing models for application usage.

The present disclosure teaches a framework for exporting a state of an application from a first application to a second corresponding application. Because users may have built a state in an application over time investing effort and creativity in building that state it is helpful to be able to preserve that state by exporting the state from the application that executes on a first platform and importing the state by a corresponding application that executes on a different execution platform. For example a user may play a game that executes on his mobile phone while on vacation and may advance through one or more game levels. When the user resumes playing the same game e.g. a second corresponding application installed on a home computer or through a gaming system connected to a large screen television he doesn t want to have to re earn those gaming levels. Additionally the framework may be extended using the state exporting and importing functionality to provide storing application state on an external server. This may be useful when an execution platform for example a mobile phone is lost damaged or replaced. The user may execute an import function on his replacement and or new device to restore the state of his applications by exporting the stored state of those applications from the external server.

As used herein state may comprise a variety of information. State may comprise a token that authorizes play at an advanced level of a game. State may comprise an accumulated game score or other accumulated numerical values. State may comprise preparations the user has undertaken in the application for example one or more of defining avatars importing photographs editing photographs inputting textual information building a personal profile building a fantasy profile or the like. State may comprise a history of user actions within the application. State may comprise one or more addresses input into an application for example addresses input into a navigation application. State may comprise search criteria for example search criteria input by the user to define preferences of music food entertainment or the like.

The disclosure further teaches a framework for delivering installing and managing a plurality of applications to users on a subscription basis. In an embodiment the framework may serve subscribers that pay a monthly fee to download and use any applications listed in a catalog of subscription applications. For example a user may pay 9.99 per month and be able to select from and download any number of subscription applications from among a repository of 100 applications 200 applications or more applications. In an embodiment the framework allows the subscriber to install subscription applications on two or more execution platforms for example the same subscription application may be installed e.g. stored and configured on two execution platforms at the same time. For example the subscriber may install subscription applications on his mobile phone as well as on his laptop computer. The subscriber may download and install the same subscription application on two different platforms for example his mobile phone and his laptop computer. In some contexts this framework may be referred to as an apps unlimited framework or an apps unlimited system.

In an embodiment the subscription applications comprise a subscription application wrapper around a core application and the wrapper manages the digital rights management DRM rules associated with the subscription applications. For example the wrapper may be used to restrict the installation of applications for a given subscriber to a maximum of two devices or some other maximum number of devices. The wrapper may be used to block execution of a subscription application and to block downloading of a subscription application from the subscription application repository if the subscription account is not in good standing if the account is inactive or in response to some other trigger or state. For example in an embodiment the wrapper may block execution of the subscription application and block downloading of a subscription application from the subscription application repository if the subscription account is in arrears and the monthly subscription fee is not paid. For example in an embodiment the wrapper may block execution of the subscription application and block downloading of a subscription application from the subscription application repository during certain excluded times of the day possibly to reduce load on the wireless communication network during periods of maximum usage or during emergencies.

In an embodiment the subscription application may check a flag or status parameter that is stored in the wireless communication network for example at a server computer accessed via the wireless communication network. The subject server may set the flag to one of an enabled or disabled value based on one or more rules as described above. For example the subject server may periodically evaluate the payment status of the subscription account and set the flag accordingly may periodically set the flag for different times of day may set the flag asynchronously e.g. in response to an unscheduled event such as an emergency or an unanticipated network overload . In an embodiment designing the subscription application framework or system e.g. the apps unlimited framework to make the server computer responsible for setting the flag may have advantages of security and fraud prevention.

A subscription application may have a name that is similar to but different from a name of a corresponding application that does not comprise the wrapper for example a corresponding application that may be purchased from a purchasable application repository. Such a purchased application may be referred to in some contexts herein as an owned application. For example the name of the subscription application may be formed by extending the name of the corresponding owned application for example extended by adding a prefix. In an embodiment the operating system of the execution platform would treat the two application names as unrelated applications.

In an embodiment the access to the subscription applications is mediated by a subscription management application. The management application provides a catalog of subscription applications that a subscriber may request for downloading from a subscription application repository. The management application may provide functionality for downloading and installing subscription applications from a subscription application repository without relying on an application installation tool provided in the operating system of the mobile communication device. For example the management application may download and install applications without using a Google Play application that is provided by the Android operating system of a mobile communication device.

The management application may further provide functionality for exporting state from an application installed on the electronic device it executes on to another electronic device. The management application may also provide functionality for importing state from an application installed on another electronic device into an application installed on the electronic device the management application executes on. The management application may provide import state and export state functionality by invoking an application programming interface API built into all the subscription applications.

In an embodiment the management application may provide some of the functionality described above as being performed by the wrapper of a subscription application. For example the management application may keep track of an application subscription account status and block attempts to launch any subscription application installed on the mobile communication device and block attempts to download subscription applications from the subscription application repository if the subscription account bill is not paid up. The management application may check the payment status of the subscription account on a periodic basis synchronized with a subscription period for example a month or some other period. Alternatively in an embodiment the management application may check the status flag stored in the wireless communication network and set by a server computer as described above and may block attempts to download or execute subscription applications if the flag is set to a disabled state.

In an embodiment applications corresponding to the core of a subscription application may be purchased from a different application repository for example from a purchasable application repository. A user may choose to do this after he has conducted a trial of the corresponding subscription application and he wishes to continue using the application after letting his application subscription expire or after the subscription application is removed from the subscription applications supported by the framework e.g. a developer of the subject subscription application may terminate his business agreement with the subscription applications service provider .

An owned application or a purchased application may be substantially similar to the corresponding subscription application with the exception that the owned application does not have the subscription wrapper and hence does not check the subscription account status of the user before permitting launch of the subject owned application. Additionally the owned application may comprise the complete set of levels of an application for example all of the player levels of a game. A subscription application may comprise an incomplete set of levels of the application. For example a subscription gaming application may install initially with 5 of 15 game levels. When a user advances to the highest installed level e.g. level 5 in this example a message may be presented inviting the user to pay for an incremental installation of additional levels or to purchase the corresponding purchase application.

Alternatively an owned application installed on the user s electronic device may have less functionality or support fewer layers than a subscription application and a user who has begun by using an owned application may wish to download a corresponding subscription application and transfer state from the originally purchased application to the corresponding downloaded subscription application. Alternatively a free version for example trial version of a purchasable application installed on the user s electronic device may have less functionality or support fewer layers than the subscription application and the user who has begun by using the free application may wish to download a corresponding subscription application and transfer state from the originally purchased application to the corresponding downloaded subscription application.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment system comprises a mobile communication device a base transceiver station or an enhanced Node B eNB a network a subscription application repository and a purchasable application repository . The mobile communication device may be a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wearable computer a headset computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer or another intelligent electronic device. The mobile communication device may communicate with a macrocellular radio access network of BTSs using a radio transceiver of the mobile communication device . The mobile communication device may comprise other radio transceivers not shown for example a WiFi radio transceiver a Bluetooth radio transceiver a near field communication NFC radio transceiver or other radio transceiver.

The radio transceiver may communicate with the BTS or eNB using a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another macrocellular wireless communication protocol. The BTS provides a wireless link to the mobile communication device and communications connectivity to the network . The network comprises one or more private networks one or more public networks or a combination thereof.

The mobile communication device further comprises a processor and a memory . In an embodiment the memory comprises or stores a subscription application management application referred to hereinafter as the subscription management application optionally one or more subscription applications and optionally one or more owned applications . In an embodiment the subscription management application may comprise a subscription applications catalog an import application state function an export application state function and an optional account state . It will be appreciated that the system may comprise any number of BTSs or eNBs and any number of mobile communication devices .

The system may further comprise an alternate subscription application platform . The alternate subscription application platform may be associated with the mobile communication device for example the platform and the device may be owned by the same subscriber and or may be registered to the same subscription application account. The system may comprise any number of alternate subscription application platforms . The alternate subscription platform comprises a second subscription management application that provides functionality like the subscription management application installed on the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the subscription management application and the second subscription management application are paired with each other and collaborate to enforce subscription rules.

The subscription management application may be invoked or executed by selecting a control button of the device for example by touching a corresponding icon on a touchscreen display of the device . The subscription management application may present controls on the device that enable the user to open and view the subscriptions applications catalog . The catalog may present controls for selecting subscription applications for downloading and installation on the device . The application catalog may present controls for selecting presentation of supporting details about one or more of the subscription applications listed or presented in the catalog .

When a subscription application in the catalog is selected for downloading the subscription management application may check the value of the account state . When the account state is enabled current or up to date then the management application may communicate with the subscription application repository to download the subject subscription application to the device . When the subject subscription application has been downloaded to the device the management application may install it in the memory and add an icon associated with the downloaded subscription application in a screen of the device . When the icon is selected for example is touched by a user of the device the subscription application may be invoked by the operating system to execute. In an embodiment the management application downloads and installs the subscription application without using an installation tool provided by an operating system of the device for example without using a Google Play tool.

The catalog may be periodically updated by the subscription management application for example once per day once per week once per month or on some other schedule. Alternatively the catalog may update asynchronously for example when the catalog is launched it may access or the subscription management application may access the subscription application repository to download any changes in the subscriptions applications available. The changes may be new descriptions of the subscription applications. The changes may be subscription applications added to and or subscription applications removed from the subscription application repository .

When the account state is not enabled is not current or is in arrears the subscription management application may present a message on the display of the device to the effect that the requested download and installation of the selected subscription application will not be performed because the subscription applications account of the device has an overdue payment pending or is disabled for some other reason. In an embodiment the subscription management application may further present a control to initiate a payment to bring a subscription applications account up to date and therefore to complete the download and installation of a subscription application.

In an embodiment the account state may have either an enabled state value or a disabled state value. The state value may be determined based on one or more independent rules. One rule may be the payment status of the account. Another rule may be a time of day rule. For example the account state may have a disabled status during the hours of 8 AM to 6 PM to avoid congesting a communication network during high communication network loading due to business activity. Another rule may be related to the existence of special circumstances for example during an emergency the account state may be assigned a disabled value to avoid congestion of a communication network during the emergency. The subscription management application may evaluate the rules periodically to set the value of the account state . Alternatively the account state may be evaluated by a server computer e.g. server computer shown in and discussed further below and the subscription management application may periodically access or read the account state from that server computer and store the value in the account state . Alternatively the account state may not be stored by the mobile communication device and the subscription management application and or subscription applications may access and or read the account status from the server computer as needed.

In an embodiment the subscription management application may request a status of the subscription application account from a management server application that executes on a server computer as illustrated in . The management application may request the status of the subscription application account on a periodic basis that correlates with the payment due dates of the account. For example if the payment on the account is due on the first of the month the subscription management application may query the management server application shortly after the first of the month. If the account is paid up to date the subscription management application may assure the account state is set to an appropriate value and may schedule checking account status again a month later. If the account is not paid up to date the subscription management application may periodically query the management server application for the account status for example once an hour once a day or once a week. Alternatively the subscription management application may check the account status when a user attempts to download a subscription application again from the subscription application repository or attempts to execute a subscription application . The subscription applications account may also be paid via an on line payment mechanism or may be aggregated to a periodic wireless communication subscription account bill.

When a subscription application is selected for execution for example by touching an icon associated with the subscription application presented on the display of the device the account state is checked to assure the account is current before the subscription application is executed. This check may be built into the wrapper of the subscription application where the subscription application may invoke an application programming interface API call to an account state check function provided by the subscription management application . Alternatively the execution of the subscription application may be mediated by the subscription management application and the subscription management application may access the account state and evaluate currency of the account itself before allowing launch of the selected subscription application . In an embodiment the subscription management application may support a partial or incomplete launching of the selected subscription application in the event that the account state is disabled. Such partial execution may be used to present notification of the account state or to provide an interface for a user to take remedial steps e.g. to pay an account balance to upgrade a subscription service to ease daytime restrictions either permanently or on a single day basis . Partial execution may support exporting of state from a subscription application to a corresponding application on another electronic device for example alternate application platform or to a data store as illustrated in .

One or more of the subscription applications or the owned applications may maintain build or accumulate a state. The state may comprise a proficiency or difficulty level in a game. The state may comprise an accumulated score in the game. The state may comprise personalization information such as one or more of a name preferences activities education age or other like personal profile information. The state may comprise one or more photograph or avatar. The state may comprise a level of stores retained in the application for example one or more of credits granted to and retained by the user of the application stores remaining to a player in a game points accumulated by a player in a game or the like. The state may comprise addresses or keywords or names entered into the application by the user of the application. The state may comprise portions of a history of actions taken while the application was executing. The state may comprise other information.

One or more of the subscription applications or the owned applications may provide APIs for exporting or importing state from a corresponding application. Corresponding applications or associated applications are applications that generally deliver the same or like functionality but are installed on different execution platforms and or a first one of the applications is an owned application without the subscription application wrapper and a second one of the applications is a subscription application that has the subscription application wrapper.

For example an export API of a first application may be invoked to export the state of the first application to a second application wherein the first application and the second application are corresponding or associated applications. For example the first application may be a subscription application executing on the device and the second application may be the same subscription application e.g. the same game the same navigation application the same social networking application executing on the alternative application platform . It is understood that transferring state between applications may entail a reciprocal execution of the export API on a first device and execution of the import API on a second device. As another example the first application may be a subscription application executing on the device and the second application may be an owned application executing on the same device . In an embodiment the applications may support exporting state to a data store coupled to the network for example a state data store illustrated in and importing state from the state data store . This functionality could provide back up for possible failure of the device and or the alternative application platform . The importing and exporting of state of applications may be supported both by the export application state function and the account state function of the subscription management application as well as supported by APIs provided by the applications themselves.

Turning now to a system is described. The system comprises the mobile communication device the alternate application platform the network the subscription application repository and the purchasable application repository of . In system the mobile communication device does not comprise the subscription management application of but instead comprises a subscription management client application . Likewise the alternate application platform does not comprise the second subscription management application of but instead comprises a second subscription management client application . The system further comprises a server computer that executes a subscription management server application referred to hereinafter at the management server application .

In system at least some of the subscription application management functions described as provided by the subscription management application with reference to are in system instead provided by the management server application . For example the management server application may periodically send a message characterizing changes in the purchasable application repository to the subscription management client applications whereby the subscription applications catalog may be updated. The management server application may send delta messages to the subscription management client applications when a change occurs in the subscription application repository either immediately e.g. asynchronously or during a preferred messaging time interval e.g. quasi asynchronously such as during early morning hours when the network and or the BTSs are lightly loaded. The delta messages may contain only information about the changes in the subscription application repository .

The management server application may provide account state information to the subscription management client applications periodically for example as periodic subscription fees fall due and or asynchronously in response to queries from the subscription management client applications . The management server application may query an account data store or account server not shown to determine the account status of each of the subscription application accounts of all subscribers for example during a time of light loading of the network .

The system may support an application state backup functionality. This may be useful for recovery of application state when a mobile communication device or the alternate application execution platform is lost stolen exchanged or destroyed.

In an embodiment the applications may support exporting state to a data store coupled to the network for example a state data store illustrated in and importing state from the state data store . Alternatively the management server application and the management client application may provide supporting or mediating services for this export and import functionality. This functionality could provide back up for possible failure of the device and or the alternative subscription application platform . If a first device is stolen or run over by a car the user may buy a replacement device and the back up functionality could selectively reinstall the subscription applications that had been installed in the original device and then export the state of the applications to the replacement device . This back up could be provided using hooks and levers provided for exporting and importing state between the mobile communication device and the alternate application subscription platform and between corresponding subscription applications and owned applications .

The mobile communication device and the alternate subscription application platform could be configured to export state from the applications to the state data store as state records . Export of state may be initiated periodically or asynchronously by the applications or by the subscription management application or the management client application . State would not be exported by inactive applications because their state would only change when they were active. The state back up functionality may be a valuable service that the management server application could provide that would generate additional revenues for a telecommunications service provider enterprise.

When a previously installed subscription application was removed from the subscription application repository the subscription management server application could interoperate with the mobile communication devices and the alternate subscription application platforms that had installed the subject subscription application to have it removed. The subscription management server application may command the subscription management client applications as the particular case may be to present a message or post a notification for the user of the device or platform about the removal of the subject subscription application . The user may be provided an application to first back up the state of the subscription application to the state data store and or to purchase the associated owned application from the purchasable application repository .

Turning now to a block diagram of how state may be stored in and transferred among applications and is described. An application that is available in the form of a subscription application and in the form of a purchasable application is used as an example. The subscription application has a subscription application wrapper while the owned application does not have a subscription application wrapper. The subscription application comprises a state the owned application comprises a state and the subscription application stored in a memory of the alternative subscription application platform comprises a state.

The user of the mobile communication device may use the subscription application causing changes to be made in state. Later the user may wish to use the subscription application executing on the alternative execution platform based on the state so the state is exported by the mobile communication device for example by the subscription application by the subscription management application or by the subscription management client application and imported by the alternative execution platform for example by the subscription application by the subscription management application or by the subscription management client application . As a result of this export import cycle the state is overwritten with the values of state.

Later subscription application may be removed from the portfolio of subscription applications and may no longer be authorized for use as a subscription application. The user decides to purchase the corresponding owned application and to import either state or state and overwrite onto state using an export import cycle. It is understood that the export import cycles may be completed by the subscription management application operating by itself export import cycle between subscription application and owned application completed by the subscription management applications collaborating with each other or completed by the subscription management server application interworking with one or more of the subscription management client application .

Turning now to a sequence diagram is described. At the subscription application executes on the mobile communication device and updates state. At the mobile communication device exports state to the alternate application platform . At the alternate application platform updates its state from the state information it received. At the subscription application executes on the alternate application platform and updates state.

At the alternate application platform exports state to the mobile communication device . At the mobile communication device updates its state from the state information it received. At owned application is purchased and installed on the mobile communication device . At the mobile communication device exports state from the subscription application to the owned application . At the owned application updates its state from the state information that it received. At the owned application executes and updates its state. In combination with the present disclosure one skilled in the art will readily appreciate how these sequences of operations could be extended for example to export the state to either the state of the subscription application or to the state of the subscription application and to export the state of the subscription application to the state of the owned application .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a catalog of subscription applications stored in a memory of a mobile communication device is read for example by the subscription management application or the subscription management client application . At block the catalog of subscription applications is presented on a display of the mobile communication device for example by the subscription management application or the subscription management client application . A control may be provided in the display of the catalog to obtain detailed information about the subject application for example processor or display requirements a general description of the function of the application and the like. At block a selection of a subscription application from among a plurality of subscription applications presented on the display is received for example by the subscription management application or the subscription management client application . At block a subscription applications account payment status is determined. At block if the subscription application account is not paid the method exits.

At block if the subscription account is enabled the method proceeds to block where the selected subscription application is downloaded via a radio transceiver of the mobile communication device for example the radio transceiver by a subscription applications management application for example the subscription management application . At block a state of the selected subscription application is maintained for example is stored and updated as the subscription application executes. At block a request to export the state of the selected subscription application is received. At block the state of the selected subscription application is exported.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

