---

title: Integrated managed pressure drilling transient hydraulic model simulator architecture
abstract: A system is described herein for performing off shore field operations. The system includes a number of process measuring devices that measure real-time process data. The system can further include a wellhead stack positioned at a sea floor, where the wellhead stack performs managed pressure drilling (MPD) as part of the field operations. The system can also include a dynamic process module executing on a hardware processor and providing first real-time output during the MPD using the real-time process data, where the dynamic process module includes a first off-the-shelf software package communicably coupled to a first model. The system can further include a dynamic integration engine executing on a hardware processor and receiving a first real-time output from the first model of the dynamic process module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500035&OS=09500035&RS=09500035
owner: CHEVRON U.S.A. INC.
number: 09500035
owner_city: San Ramon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141006
---
The present disclosure relates generally to subterranean field operations and more particularly to systems methods and devices for subterranean field operations using sea floor mud lift drilling.

Deepwater managed pressure drilling MPD can include a number of different types of field operations including but not limited to sea floor mud lift drilling SMD also called other names such as subsea mudlift drilling . SMD can exist in at least two different configurations including but not limited to single gradient drilling SGD and dual gradient drilling DGD . In the DGD variation SMD is used in deep water field operations where the drilling mud is pumped from the sea floor to the drilling vessel to create the effect of dual pressure gradients in the returning mud column. When SMD is used with a conventional marine riser the riser is filled with seawater and the mud is pumped up return lines. When used with independent return lines the SMD system permits riserless drilling which refers to lack of a conventional marine riser. Smaller return lines require much less tension may be faster to deploy and contain much less mud volume.

In general in one aspect the disclosure relates to system for performing off shore field operations. The system can include a number of process measuring devices that measure real time process data. The system can also include a wellhead stack positioned at a sea floor where the wellhead stack performs managed pressure drilling MPD as part of the field operations. The system can further include a dynamic process module executing on a first hardware processor and providing first real time output during the MPD using the real time process data where the dynamic process module includes a first off the shelf software package communicably coupled to a first model. The system can also include a dynamic integration engine executing on a second hardware processor and receiving a first real time output from the first model of the dynamic process module.

In another aspect the disclosure can generally relate to a method for integrating real time data associated with an off shore field operation. The method can include receiving from a dynamic process module a first real time output where the first real time output is based on real time process data measured by a number of process measuring devices where the real time process data is measured during a dual gradient drilling operation where the off shore field operation includes the dual gradient drilling operation. The method can also include sending on a real time basis the first real time output of the dynamic process module to a drilling module where the first real time output is sent during the dual gradient drilling operation. The drilling module generates a report of the dual gradient drilling operation using the first real time output of the dynamic process module.

These and other aspects objects features and embodiments will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

The example embodiments discussed herein are directed to systems apparatuses computer readable mediums and methods of integrated MPD THMS architecture. While the example integrated MPD THMS architecture shown in the Figures and described herein are directed to fields using a subsea mud lift pump in deep water environments example integrated MPD THMS architecture can also be used in fields that do not use subsea mud lift pumps and or that are located in relatively shallow offshore and or land based environments. Thus the examples of integrated MPD THMS architecture described herein are not limited to use with fields using a subsea mud lift pump in deep water environments. As defined herein a deep water environment is where the depth between the water level and the sea floor is at least 500 feet.

Example embodiments discussed herein are with reference to performing a field operation. A field may be any formation e.g. rock sand ice . The field operation is performed to reach and or extract a subterranean material and or formation in certain example embodiments. Such a material includes but is not limited to a hydrocarbon e.g. oil natural gas coal a metal hydrogen and water. A field operation is also related to finding a subterranean formation that is used for storage as for natural gas or carbon dioxide according to certain example embodiments. As defined herein the term real time shall mean at the same time or at substantially the same time so that there is no appreciable delay between relevant actions e.g. measuring data receiving data sending data .

In addition to real time use in actual field operations example embodiments can be used in one or more of a number of other situations related field operations such as off shore field operations. For example embodiments can be used for planning purposes predictive purposes real time analysis offline analysis performing simulations identification of discrepancies between actual and expected data and training of personnel. Any communication protocol described herein can be the same as or different than one or more of the other communication protocols used in example embodiments. Further any communication protocol can be configured to send and receive data bi directional only send data unidirectional or only receive data unidirectional between components in an example system.

The MPD process can be used to mitigate downhole pressure problems and reduce design costs in deepwater environments. In order to realize these benefits example embodiments use rigorous modeling and simulation of transient hydraulics and pressure profiles for the entire mud circulating system. Currently individual off the shelf software tools are used for specific areas of the mud circulating system. Unlike the current art example embodiments provide an integrated solution that provides complete modeling and simulation of the entire mud circulating system including the drilling operation and the process equipment operation.

As defined herein an off the shelf software package is directed to a particular and specific aspect of a field operation. Examples of such off the shelf software packages can include but are not limited to DrillBench DrillBench is a registered mark of SPT Group Norway located in Kjeller Norway OLGA OLGA is a registered mark of SPT Group Norway located in Kjeller Norway and DrillScene DrillScene is a registered mark of Drilltronics Rig System AS located in Stavanger Norway .

Example embodiments of integrated MPD THMS architecture will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments of integrated MPD THMS architecture are shown. Integrated MPD THMS architecture may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of integrated MPD THMS architecture to those of ordinary skill in the art. Like but not necessarily the same elements also sometimes called modules in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

Terms such as first second end inner outer upper lower distal and proximal are used merely to distinguish one component or part of a component or state of a component from another. Such terms are not meant to denote a preference or a particular orientation. Also the names given to various components described herein are descriptive of one embodiment and are not meant to be limiting in any way. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a feature and or component shown and or described in one embodiment e.g. in a figure herein can be used in another embodiment e.g. in any other figure herein even if not expressly shown and or described in such other embodiment.

The field system of can use a semi submersible platform in some cases a drilling ship because of the depth of the water . For example the depth of the water in i.e. the distance between the water level and the sea floor can be more than five hundred feet e.g. five thousand feet . Below the sea floor a bottom hole assembly which includes a drill bit is used to drill and extend a wellbore in the subterranean formation . The point where the wellbore begins at the sea floor can be called the entry point. The subterranean formation can include one or more of a number of formation types including but not limited to shale limestone sandstone clay sand and salt. In certain embodiments a subterranean formation can also include one or more reservoirs in which one or more resources e.g. oil gas water steam can be located. One or more of a number of field operations e.g. drilling setting casing extracting downhole resources can be performed to reach an objective of a user with respect to the subterranean formation .

The wellbore can have one or more of a number of segments where each segment can have one or more of a number of dimensions. Examples of such dimensions can include but are not limited to size e.g. diameter of the wellbore a curvature of the wellbore a total vertical depth of the wellbore a measured depth of the wellbore and a horizontal displacement of the wellbore . Field equipment can be used to create and or develop e.g. extract downhole materials the wellbore . The field equipment can be positioned and or assembled on the platform . The field equipment can include but is not limited to a derrick a tool pusher a clamp a tong drill pipe the drill bit tubing pipe a power source and casing pipe. The field equipment can also include one or more devices that measure and or control various aspects e.g. direction of wellbore pressure temperature of a field operation associated with the wellbore . For example the field equipment can include a measurement while drilling MWD tool that is part of the bottom hole assembly and provides real time and detailed information e.g. curvature azimuth inclination during a field operation e.g. drilling within the wellbore . Generally these measuring devices can be drilling operation measuring devices and process measuring devices all as described below with respect to .

Above the sea floor in the field system can include a piping system that includes a riser and at least one mud return line in this case mud return line and mud return line disposed in the water . Each mud return line can be connected to a mud processing unit where the mud can be analyzed and or processed for recirculation into the drilling process. Some or all of the piping system can be encased in a protective sheath. The riser can have a cavity along its length into which the tubing string can be disposed. Between the tubing string in the wellbore and the tubing string within the riser can be a wellhead stack located at or near the mudline . The wellhead stack can include one or more of a number of components. For example as shown in the wellhead stack can include a subsea rotating device a solids processing unit a mud lift pump also called MLP and a blow out preventer . Each of the mud return lines in this case mud return line and mud return line can be coupled to the MLP . In other words the MLP circulates mud through at least one separate mud return line. The MLP helps to control the dynamic annular pressure at any point or at multiple points in the wellbore .

In certain example embodiments the MLP is a very large expensive and complex device. For example the MLP can be over 30 feet tall weigh over 30 tons and include multiple chambers and chokes. This operational complexity adds to the impropriety of using estimated data rather than actual data during a field operation. An example of a MLP is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 325 159 entitled Offshore Drilling System the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Example embodiments are important for field operations involving a MLP because pressure flow solvers and calculators can be integrated into a unified solution for a field operation.

The MLP can be used to promote SMD DGD or some other form of MPD. For example in DGD multiple e.g. two weights of drilling mud are used as opposed to a single weight of drilling mud used in conventional field operations. As an example a drilling mud having one weight can be used above the sea floor and a drilling mud having a different weight can be used in the wellbore below the sea floor . In DGD the MLP can be used in the return line. In such a case the mud still flows down inside the tubing string but the MLP powered by sea water circulates mud and cuttings back to the platform through a mud return line e.g. mud return line mud return line located outside the riser as shown in . The annulus of the riser between the riser and the outside of the tubing string is filled with seawater so that the pressure in the annulus of the riser is substantially similar to the pressure of the ocean water .

As a result fluctuating pressures in the subterranean formation under the sea floor during a field operation can become much easier to manage from an operational standpoint. Thus seawater gradient is at issue between the water level and the sea floor and mud gradient is at issue below the sea floor . In terms of pressure this situation is like operating a deep water field operation on the sea floor like land based drilling where risers aren t needed. Put another way MPD allows a user to more closely match the pressures presented by nature and effectively eliminates water depth as a consideration in well design. By placing the MLP on the sea floor the pressure exerted on the shallow weak formations can be reduced but still remain high enough at the bottom of the wellbore to control formation pressure. Thus heavier mud can be used under the sea floor and deeper holes can be drilled into the subterranean formation .

Because of the relative novelty of MPD operations especially using a MLP and because of the varying pressures used above and below the sea floor the operations of each area is very different. Thus there is no integrated modeling package that processes on a real time basis a field operation using MPD. Further discrete modeling currently used for process operations transient operations both above the sea floor and drilling operations below the sea floor are not integrated which can present significant challenges during a field operation. Example embodiments are used to integrate on a real time basis discrete systems used for process operations transient operations and drilling operations so that a user can accurately assess and adjust a field operation in real time. This can be especially important for example when pressures in the subterranean formation during a drilling operation suddenly change. Otherwise the safety and efficiency of a field operation using MPD with a MLP can be negatively impacted.

As a specific example as shown in various modules of modeling software can be used in a field operation. Each of these modules can include an off the shelf software package that is customized to a site by developing a model that acts as an interface between the off the shelf software package and one or more other modules communicably coupled to the off the shelf software package in the field system . In this case a drilling module is used to model the field operation with respect to the activities under the sea floor as denoted by the circled numbers and in . A process module also called a dynamic process module is used to model the field operation with respect to activities involving the circulation of sea water within the riser above the sea floor as denoted by the circled numbers and in . A transient hydraulic module is used to model the field operation with respect to activities involving the circulation of the mud above the sea floor as denoted by the circled numbers and in . The drilling module the dynamic process module and the transient hydraulic module are described in more detail below with respect to .

In one or more example embodiments the computer system is implemented according to a client server topology. The computer system may correspond to enterprise software running on one or more servers and in some embodiments may be implemented as a peer to peer system or resident upon a single computing system. In addition the computer system may be accessible from other machines using one or more application programming interfaces and or user interfaces not shown . In one or more example embodiments the computer system may be accessible over a network connection not shown such as the Internet by one or more users. Further information and or services provided by the computer system may also be stored and accessed over the network connection.

Alternatively or additionally in one or more example embodiments the computer system is a local computer system of the user and or of one or more measuring devices e.g. drilling operation measuring devices process measuring devices . In such embodiments the computer system is optionally not implemented using a client server topology. For example the computer system corresponds to a laptop computer desktop computer mobile device another type of computing device or a combination of multiple computing devices. Additionally or alternatively the computer system is a distributed computer system and or a multi processor computer system in which the computer system includes multiple distinct computing devices.

Continuing with the user uses one or more applications not shown to communicate with the computer system in accordance with one or more example embodiments. For example the user receives a notification from the computer system as to the status or a change in a field operation. According to some example embodiments the user is an engineer a company representative a driller a salesman an agent a broker a consultant a representative of a seller or some other entity with an interest in a field operation. Communication between the user and the computer system can be facilitated using one or more communication protocols .

According to some example embodiments the user sends information e.g. user preferences settings data to the computer system in a number of manners e.g. modes of communication including but not limited to the mail a telephone an email a fax a short message service over the Internet some other suitable mode for sending information or any combination thereof. In certain example embodiments the information sent by the user to the computer system is delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a consumer preference an occurrence of an event or on demand for example in response to a request from the computer system . The computer system interacts with the user in the same manner that the user interacts with the computer system or in a different manner using different modes of communication. The user uses a user system not shown which is discussed below in further detail to interact with the computer system using software not shown in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments the measuring devices e.g. drilling operation measuring devices process measuring devices are each an entity and or system capable of receiving sending manipulating and or storing information associated with a field operation. Examples of the measuring devices can include but are not limited to a pressure sensor a flow sensor a proximity sensor a thermometer a switch a relay a gyroscope a MWD tool and the user . A number of measuring devices are used to receive send manipulate and or store information associated with a field operation according to some example embodiments. A drilling operation measuring device is a device that measures one or more parameters associated with a drilling portion of a field operation. A process measuring device is a device that measures one or more parameters associated with a process portion which can include transient hydraulics of a field operation.

In one or more example embodiments each measuring device sends information e.g. field data operational data to and receives data e.g. a request for data from the computer system . More specifically each measuring device can send data to the data validation engine which verifies that the measuring device is working properly and that the data sent by the measuring device is reliable. The data can be delivered automatically e.g. according to a default setting a marketing entity preference an occurrence of an event or on demand as from a request made by the computer system . At least some of the measuring devices measure and send field data to the computer system on a real time basis.

Communication between the drilling operation measuring devices and the computer system can be facilitated using one or more communication protocols . Communication between the process measuring devices and the computer system can be facilitated using one or more communication protocols . Each measuring device can interact with the computer system using the same mode of communication that the computer system interacts with the measuring device or using different modes of communication in alternative example embodiments. In one or more example embodiments each measuring device uses a measuring device system not shown to interact with the computer system using measuring device software not shown which is discussed in further detail below.

In certain example embodiments the drilling module includes at least one off the shelf software package and one or more models communicably coupled with the off the shelf software package that are developed for the field system to act as an interface with the computer system and in some cases other off the shelf software packages and or one or more models within the drilling module . The one or more models can be included in example embodiments and have one or more communication e.g. data transfer protocols that are designed to communicate with the application interface of the computer system . In other words the one or more models can be part of the example MPD THMS architecture.

As used herein the term off the shelf can refer to a software package that is generally available from a third party and can be used for any of a number of field operations. Alternatively the term off the shelf can refer to a software package that is specifically designed for a user and or for a particular field operation. In such a case the software package can be created by the user or a third party.

The drilling module can include software that is designed to assess and evaluate on a real time basis one or more components of the drilling operation defined by the drilling activity within the wellbore in the subterranean formation . Components of the drilling operation can include but are not limited to the tubing string cuttings of the mud and the annulus of the tubing string . The drilling module uses drilling operation measuring devices in performing its assessment and evaluation of the drilling operation. Examples of such drilling operation measuring devices can include but are not limited to gyroscopes flow meters MWD tools electromagnetic sources and receivers and temperature sensors.

To the extent that data from portions of the field operation located above the sea floor are needed the drilling module relies on estimates for such data. Actual values for such data are currently not attainable on a real time basis because of the relatively recent developments in MPD especially when using a MLP . Because conditions in the subterranean formation can change drastically in a short amount of time inaccurate and or uncertain estimates of data such as the data measured by the process measuring devices and or the drilling operation measuring devices can prove costly in terms of safety and or efficiency of a field operation.

In certain example embodiments the dynamic process module includes at least one off the shelf software package and one or more models communicably coupled with the off the shelf software package that are developed for the field system to act as an interface with the computer system and in some cases other off the shelf software packages one or more models within the transient hydraulic module and or one or more models within the dynamic process module . The one or more models can be included in example embodiments and have one or more communication e.g. data transfer protocols that are designed to communicate with the application interface of the computer system and or one or more communication protocols that are designed to communicate with the transient hydraulic module of the computer system . In other words the one or more models can be part of the example MPD THMS architecture.

The dynamic process module can include software that is designed to assess and evaluate on a real time basis one or more components of the process operation defined by the circulation of sea water within the riser . Components of the process operation can include but are not limited to a manifold e.g. a SMD manifold seawater and a MLP . The dynamic process module uses process measuring devices in performing its assessment and evaluation during the field operation. Examples of such process measuring devices can include but are not limited to valve position indicators gas analyzers cuttings analyzers flow meters pressure sensors and temperature sensors.

To the extent that data from portions of the field operation located below the sea floor and or in the recirculation of mud above the sea floor are needed the dynamic process module relies on estimates for such data. Actual values for such data are currently not attainable on a real time basis because of the relatively recent developments in MPD especially when using a MLP . Again because conditions in the subterranean formation can change drastically in a short amount of time inaccurate and or uncertain estimates of data such as the data measured by the drilling operation measuring devices and or the drilling operation measuring devices can prove costly in terms of safety and or efficiency of a field operation.

In certain example embodiments the transient hydraulic module includes at least one off the shelf software package and one or more models communicably coupled with the off the shelf software package that are developed for the field system to act as an interface with the computer system and in some cases other off the shelf software packages one or more models within the dynamic process module and or one or more models within the transient hydraulic module . The one or more models can be included in example embodiments and have one or more communication e.g. data transfer protocols that are designed to communicate with the application interface of the computer system and or one or more communication protocols that are designed to communicate with the dynamic process module of the computer system . In other words the one or more models can be part of the example MPD THMS architecture.

The transient hydraulic module can include software that is designed to assess and evaluate on a real time basis one or more components of the transient operation defined by the return circulation of mud from beneath the sea floor to the platform . Components of the transient operation can include but are not limited to the blow out preventer the return line the subsea rotating device and the solids processing unit . The transient hydraulic module uses process measuring devices in performing its assessment and evaluation during the field operation. In some cases the transient hydraulic module can be part of or can be in direct communication with the dynamic process module .

In certain example embodiments a single model e.g. model model can be used with more than one off the shelf software package e.g. off the shelf software package off the shelf software package regardless of whether the off the shelf software packages are part of the same module e.g. drilling module dynamic process module transient hydraulic module or multiple modules. In addition or in the alternative a single off the shelf software package can be operatively coupled to more than one model. Each model e.g. model model can be a discrete module or part of a single model. Each model can run on one or more hardware processors

In some cases even with the use of example embodiments actual data may not be available. Instead predictability tools e.g. models continue to be relied upon to provide certain data. However by using the real time data and real time communication between various modules e.g. dynamic process module within the system example embodiments can be used to provide more accurate calculations estimates or other data that is not read directly by a measuring device e.g. process measuring devices .

To the extent that data from portions of the field operation located below the sea floor and or in the recirculation of sea water above the sea floor are needed the transient simulator module relies on estimates for such data. Actual values for such data are currently not attainable on a real time basis because of the relatively recent developments in MPD especially when using a MLP . Once again because conditions in the subterranean formation can change drastically in a short amount of time inaccurate and or uncertain estimates of data such as the data measured by the drilling operation measuring devices and or the process measuring devices can prove costly in terms of safety and or efficiency of a field operation.

The computer system also can be implemented as a browser extension according to some example embodiments. In such a scenario user software and or measuring device software interacts directly with the computer system as a browser extension.

Continuing with the computer system interacts with the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or each measuring device using an application interface in accordance with one or more example embodiments. Specifically the application interface of the computer system receives input from and sends output to the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or each measuring device. The user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or each measuring device includes an interface to receive data from and send data to the computer system in certain example embodiments. Examples of this interface include but are not limited to a graphical user interface an application programming interface a keyboard a monitor a mouse a web service a data protocol adapter some other hardware and or software or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the information received by the application interface of the computer system includes but is not limited to field data operational data user preferences settings and feedback. The information sent by the application interface includes but is not limited to a request a recommendation a status report and a notification. The information sent by the application interface specifies but is not limited to a user a field location a data source a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL a web address etc. data identified by and or requested by the dynamic integration engine some other software or source of information or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the information i.e. data transferred among the application interface the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or each measuring device corresponds to metadata associated with such information. In this case the metadata describes the data specified i.e. the metadata provides context for the specified data . In one or more embodiments of the invention the computer system supports various data formats provided by the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or each measuring device.

Continuing with the computer system retrieves and stores data e.g. field data operational data formulas times thresholds in the storage repository . More specifically the computer system uses the dynamic integration engine to retrieve and store data in the storage repository in accordance with one or more example embodiments.

Continuing with the storage repository is a persistent storage device or set of devices that stores software and data used to assist the dynamic integration engine in integrating the example MPD THMS architecture. Examples of a storage repository can include but are not limited to a database or a number of databases a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof. The storage repository can be located on multiple physical machines each storing all or a portion of the data according to some example embodiments. Each storage unit or device of the storage repository can be physically located in the same or different geographic location.

In certain example embodiments the storage repository is operatively connected to the dynamic integration application . In one or more example embodiments the dynamic integration application includes functionality to transfer data measured by one or more measuring devices to the drilling module the dynamic process module and or the transient hydraulic module . More specifically the dynamic integration application can receive data from one or more measuring devices using at times the storage repository and can send such data to the drilling module the dynamic process module and or the transient hydraulic module . The functions of the dynamic integration application can be performed on a single computing device or on multiple computing devices. When the functions of the dynamic integration application are performed on multiple computing devices a number of configurations and or frameworks are used in certain example embodiments. The configurations and or software frameworks are designed to work with multiple data nodes and large quantities of data. One or more calculations performed by one or more components of the dynamic integration application are performed on multiple machines operating in parallel where the results from each machine is combined to generate a result to the one or more calculations.

In certain example embodiments the data validation engine receives data from one or more of the drilling operation measuring devices and or one or more of the process measuring devices and validates this data to ensure that the data is reliable. The data validation engine can validate data using one or more formulas and or algorithms stored in the storage repository . If the data tested by the data validation engine is valid then the data validation engine passes the data to the dynamic integration engine . If the data tested by the data validation engine is not valid then the data validation engine notifies the dynamic integration engine that there is a problem with the validity of the data. In turn the dynamic integration engine can notify the user the drilling module the dynamic process module and or the transient hydraulic module that the data in question is invalid and or that the particular device used to measure such data is not operating properly.

In certain example embodiments the dynamic integration engine merely sends and receives data between the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and one or more measuring devices. Alternatively the dynamic integration engine can manipulate calculate model or otherwise use data received from the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices before sending data to the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices. In any case the data validation engine may first validate the data before the dynamic integration engine sends the data to another component of the system and or manipulates calculates models or otherwise uses the data. If the dynamic integration engine performs any manipulation or alteration of data one or more formulas and or algorithms stored in the storage repository can be used by the dynamic integration engine to perform such manipulations or alterations.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the dynamic integration engine of the dynamic integration application coordinates the application interface the storage repository and optionally the security module . Specifically the dynamic integration engine coordinates the transfer of information between the application interface the storage repository and the other components of the dynamic integration application according to certain example embodiments.

Further the dynamic integration engine also retrieves data from and sends data to the storage repository for use by the dynamic integration engine or by other components of the dynamic integration application . The dynamic integration engine also retrieves the data from the storage repository to be sent to the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices. Continuing with the dynamic integration engine retrieves specific types of data from the data repository and or one or more specific measuring devices. Alternatively the dynamic integration engine queries all measuring devices and the storage repository for any information needed.

In certain example embodiments the dynamic integration engine receives data from the one or more measuring devices. The dynamic integration engine also sends a request for data to the one or more measuring devices in certain example embodiments. A request is for a specific type of data in some example embodiments. A request also is sent to a specific measuring device according to some example embodiments. A request is sent based on one or more of a number of events including but not limited to passage of time a request from a user and a request from the drilling module the dynamic process module and or the transient hydraulic module . Any request sent and or data received by the dynamic integration engine is executed using the application interface .

Continuing with the hardware processor within the computer system executes software in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically the hardware processor executes the computer system or any components thereof described above and shown in as well as software used by the user the. The hardware processor can be an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor in one or more example embodiments. The hardware processor can be known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microprocessor and a multi core processor. In one or more embodiments of the invention the hardware processor executes software instructions stored in memory . The memory includes one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. The memory is discretely located on the computer system relative to the hardware processor according to some example embodiments. In certain configurations the memory is integrated with the hardware processor .

Optionally in one or more example embodiments the security module secures interactions between the computer system and the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices. More specifically the security module authenticates communication from software based on security keys verifying the identity of the source of the communication. For example user software may be associated with a security key enabling the user software to interact with the computer system . Further the security module restricts receipt of information requests for information and or access to information in some example embodiments.

Any software e.g. user software drilling module software external to the computer system can interact with the computer system using a browser extension. In this case the browser extension maintains an active session with the computer system after the security module has authenticated the external software. For example the browser extension continues to interact with the computer system as the user views various web content in the user software. In this example the browser extension receives notifications from the computer system for presenting to the user .

As discussed above the user the drilling module including various models thereof the dynamic process module including various models thereof the transient hydraulic module including various models thereof and or one or more measuring devices can use and or include a system in certain example embodiments. One or more of such systems are or contain a form of an Internet based or an intranet based computer system that is capable of communicating with the software of the application interface using one or more of a number of communication e.g. data transfer protocols. Such a computer system can include any type of computing device and or communication device including but not limited to computer system . Examples of such a system includes but are not limited to a desktop computer with Internet or intranet access a laptop computer with Internet or intranet access a smart phone a server a server farm and a personal digital assistant PDA . Any such system can correspond to a computer system as described below with regard to .

Further as discussed above any such system of the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices can have corresponding software e.g. user software drilling module software . Such software can execute on a separate device e.g. a server mainframe desktop personal computer PC laptop personal desktop assistant PDA television cable box satellite box kiosk telephone mobile phone or other computing devices from the computer system the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices can and can be coupled by a network e.g. Internet Intranet Extranet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or other network communication methods with wired and or wireless segments according to some example embodiments.

In one or more example embodiments any such software can display web page s i.e. web content . More specifically such software can be any software capable of rendering Hypertext Markup Language HTML in one or more example embodiments. For example such software can be a web browser s used by the corresponding system to access web pages i.e. web content over the Internet or other Wide Area Network or Local Area Network . Such software can also display data in other formats including but not limited to JavaScript JavaScript Object Notation JSON and XML. JavaScript is a registered trademark and service mark of Oracle America Inc. of Redwood Shores Calif. 

In one or more example embodiments such software can provide support for browser extension s . More specifically such software can provide an open framework i.e. software design that allows for easy removal addition and or replacement of software components for adding features to the software. In this case a browser extension is an application that extends the functionality of the software using the open framework. The software can interact with the computer system the user the drilling module the dynamic process module the transient hydraulic module and or one or more measuring devices using the browser extension s . Further the browser extension s interacts with an interface e.g. graphical user interface of the software.

In this case the dynamic process module and the transient hydraulic module of are combined into a single example subsystem that has bi directional communication using communication protocol with the computer system . The example subsystem can be a combination of one or more dynamic process modules and or one or more transient hydraulic modules . When there is at least one dynamic process module and at least one transient hydraulic module in the example subsystem then the respective models of each of those modules can be configured to allow a module to communicate with one or more other modules using one or more communication protocols in the subsystem and or with the computer system using communication protocol .

In this case the subsystem includes three dynamic process modules dynamic process module A dynamic process module B and dynamic process module C and two transient hydraulic modules transient hydraulic module A and transient hydraulic module B . Dynamic process module A which in this example is for a SMD manifold includes an off the shelf software package A communicably coupled with a model A. Dynamic process module B which in this example is for the seawater includes an off the shelf software package B communicably coupled with a model B. Dynamic process module C which in this example is for the MLP includes an off the shelf software package C communicably coupled with a model C. Transient hydraulic module A which in this example is for the return line includes an off the shelf software package A communicably coupled with a model A. Transient hydraulic module B which in this example is for the blow out preventer the solids processing unit and the subsea rotating device includes an off the shelf software package B communicably coupled with a model B.

In this example the model B of the dynamic process module B is configured to interface between the off the shelf software package B of the dynamic process module B and the model C of the dynamic process module C using communication protocol A. Similarly the model B of the transient hydraulic module B is configured to interface between the off the shelf software package B of the transient hydraulic module B and the model C of the dynamic process module C using communication protocol B.

Continuing with the model C of the dynamic process module C is configured to interface between the off the shelf software package C of the dynamic process module C and the model A of the transient hydraulic module A using communication protocol C. The model A of the transient hydraulic module A is configured to interface between the off the shelf software package A of the transient hydraulic module A and the model A of the dynamic process module A using communication protocol D. In addition any or all of the models in this case model A model B model C model A and or model B of the subsystem can be configured to communicate with the computer system using communication protocol .

As described above the various off the shelf software packages communicate with the computer system using the application interface and one or more communication protocols. Example embodiments allow for real time communication between the computer system and the various components of the system e.g. system system . The computer system communicates e.g. sends and receives data with the various models associated with the various off the shelf software packages so that real world results can be accurately and timely simulated and or modeled. For instance example embodiments can assist with pressure control during a field operation by providing information about pressure in various portions of a field operation as an advisory backup to primary annular pressure while drilling measurements. As another example certain embodiments described herein can be used for well planning purposes.

Of particular importance in field operations is the ability of example embodiments to integrate pressure flow temperature and other critical parameters between the various off the shelf software packages or even the modules to which the off the shelf software packages belong . When a MLP is used in a deep water field operation integration of pressures and flow rates becomes even more critical and example embodiments integrate the various modules with off the shelf software packages seamlessly and in real time. Thus example embodiments can process and transfer data such as temperature pressure and flow properties of actual and or simulated flows from a module that includes an off the shelf software package producing said information to a module that includes an off the shelf software package consuming said information including the transfer of data that includes hydrodynamic and energy relationships so that the receiving module can estimate the evolution of temperature pressure and flow in a coordinated fashion.

The architecture taught by example embodiments also provides a means for testing of the control configuration and for validating operating procedures. In addition the flexibility of the application interface and its ability to use a number of communication protocols enables a plug and play capability for the integrated system . As a result different off the shelf software packages whether for the same or a different process within a field operation can be used with example embodiments.

Now referring to the example method begins at START step and proceeds to step where a first real time output is received. The first real time output can be received from a dynamic process module . In certain example embodiments the first real time output is based on real time process data measured by one or more process measuring devices . The real time process data can be measured during a dual gradient drilling operation where the off shore field operation includes the dual gradient drilling operation. In addition or in the alternative the real time process data can be received from the process measuring devices without first being processed by the dynamic process module . If the dual gradient drilling operation uses a MLP then the real time process data can be associated with the MLP .

In step the first real time output of the dynamic process module is sent to a drilling module . The first real time output can be sent on a real time basis. In certain example embodiments the first real time output is sent during the dual gradient drilling operation. The drilling module can generate a report of the dual gradient drilling operation using the first real time output of the dynamic process module . If the real time process data can be received from the process measuring devices then the real time process data can be sent to the drilling module on a real time basis. In such a case the real time process data can first be manipulated before being sent to the drilling module . Alternatively the real time process data can be unaltered when sent to the drilling module .

In step a second real time output can be received. The second real time output can be received from a transient hydraulic module . In certain example embodiments the second real time output is based on real time transient hydraulic data measured by one or more dynamic measuring devices . The real time process data can be measured during the dual gradient drilling operation. In addition or in the alternative the real time transient hydraulic data can be received from the dynamic measuring devices without first being processed by the transient hydraulic module . If the dual gradient drilling operation uses a MLP then the real time transient hydraulic data can be associated with the MLP . For example the real time transient hydraulic data can be associated with drilling mud pumped from a MLP using at least one separate mud return line e.g. mud return line mud return line . In step the second real time output of the transient hydraulic module can be sent to the drilling module . The second real time output can be sent on a real time basis. In certain example embodiments the second real time output is sent during the dual gradient drilling operation. If the real time transient hydraulic data can be received from the dynamic measuring devices then the real time transient hydraulic data can be sent to the drilling module on a real time basis. In such a case the real time transient hydraulic data can first be manipulated before being sent to the drilling module . Alternatively the real time transient hydraulic data can be unaltered when sent to the drilling module .

The drilling module further can generate the report of the dual gradient drilling operation using the second real time output of the transient hydraulic module . Step and step can be performed at substantially the same time as steps and . In some cases as when the transient hydraulic module is combined with the dynamic process module steps and can be combined with steps and respectively. In step a report of the field operation can be received from the drilling module . Alternatively a report is generated based on output received from the drilling module . In step the report is presented to a user. In some cases for example at the end of a field operation after step is completed the method ends at the END step. Alternatively in certain example embodiments for example during a field operation after step or any other step of the method is completed the method can proceed to one or more other steps e.g. step step .

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate with one another. Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Bus includes wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component includes volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component includes fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more I O devices allow a customer utility or other user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the customer utility or other user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include but are not limited to a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone and a scanner. Examples of output devices include but are not limited to a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer and a network card.

Various techniques are described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques are stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media is any available non transitory medium or non transitory media that is accessible by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media includes computer storage media .

 Computer storage media and computer readable medium include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to computer recordable media such as RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which is used to store the desired information and which is accessible by a computer.

The computer device is connected to a network not shown e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown according to some example embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means take other forms now known or later developed in other example embodiments. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice one or more embodiments.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer device is located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network in certain example embodiments. Further one or more embodiments is implemented on a distributed system having one or more nodes where each portion of the implementation e.g. dynamic integration engine is located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node corresponds to a processor with associated physical memory in some example embodiments. The node alternatively corresponds to a processor with shared memory and or resources in some example embodiments.

One or more example embodiments provide for integrating field data measured by multiple measuring devices throughout the field into one or more modules that target a specific aspect of the field operation. Example embodiments are useful for MPD operations and in particular when a MLP is used in the MPD operations. By providing real time actual measured data from the field to the various modules those modules can rely on the actual data rather than estimated values. Because of the complexity of MPD operations especially when using a MLP and because of the radical changes in a subterranean formation that can occur during a field operation such as a drilling operation having actual data can be critical to improve safety and efficiency. Thus example embodiments allow for the use of actual data greatly improving safety and efficiency of the field operation. For instance example embodiments can be used in field operations e.g. in progress drilling simulation modeling training planning that include a MLP so that one or more details of the operation including characteristics and or settings of the MLP can be optimized predicted simulated and or otherwise modeled.

As a consequence of the improved safety and efficiency of a field operation using example embodiments the benefits of MPD can be more greatly realized. For example field operations using example embodiments can take place in even deeper waters. As another example field operations using example embodiments allow a wellbore to go deeper into a subterranean formation. As yet another example field operations using example embodiments use fewer bit runs and less material thereby reducing costs. For instance when a wellbore is being drilled using example embodiments the increased real time operational confidence in the subterranean formation and other operational characteristics translates to longer more successful bit runs. When the wellbore is completed less casing pipe is required because of the reduced number of bit runs.

Example embodiments can be used in one or more of a number of situations with respect to a field operation. Examples of such situations can include but are not limited to real time operations using actual measured data real time operations using modeled data predictive modeling forecasting simulations as for training purposes offline for a field operation. Example embodiments can be used with any of a number of MPD operations including but not limited to SMD and DGD.

Although embodiments described herein are made with reference to example embodiments it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications are well within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described herein are not limited to any specifically discussed application and that the embodiments described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. From the description of the example embodiments equivalents of the elements shown therein will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and ways of constructing other embodiments using the present disclosure will suggest themselves to practitioners of the art. Therefore the scope of the example embodiments is not limited herein.

