---

title: Composition of customized presentations associated with a social media application
abstract: According to a general aspect, a method can include receiving a request, triggered via a consumer account, to access, using a social media application, a plurality of sharer content. The sharer content can be associated with a sharer account using the social media application. The method can include retrieving, in response to the request, a consumer value and a relationship value. The consumer value can represent an interaction with the social media application via the consumer account and the relationship value can characterize a relationship between a consumer identifier of the consumer account and a sharer identifier of the sharer account. The method can include selecting a subset of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content based on a combination of the consumer value and the relationship value, and can include defining a portion of a presentation customized for the consumer account using the selected subset of sharer content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225756&OS=09225756&RS=09225756
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09225756
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 076 070 filed Nov. 8 2013 titled Composition of Customized Presentations Associated with a Social Media Application which is a continuation of and claims priority to Ser. No. 12 895 173 filed Sep. 30 2010 titled Composition of Customized Presentations Associated with a Social Media Application which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Several known social media applications are available for sharing of content e.g. image content audio content textual content through for example the Internet. A user of one of these known social media applications can share content via the social media application with another user of the social media application. A user sharing content using the social media application can be referred to as a sharer and a user consuming content using the social media application can be referred to as a consumer. Because the volume of the content shared via the social media application by the sharer can be relatively large and or diverse sifting through the content to pick and choose content that would be of interest to the consumer can be unpleasant and or time consuming for the consumer. The sifting may be undesirable because for example large portions of the content shared by the sharer through the social media application may not be relevant to the consumer or duplicative of other content already consumed by the consumer. Thus a need exists for systems methods and apparatus to address the shortfalls of present technology and to provide other new and innovative features.

According to one general aspect a tangible computer readable storage medium can store code representing instructions that when executed are configured to cause a processor or a computer system to perform a process. The code can include code to receive a request associated with a consumer account to access using a social media application a plurality of sharer content. The sharer content can be associated with a sharer account using the social media application. The code can include code to retrieve in response to the request a plurality of consumer values representing a plurality of interactions with the social media application via the consumer account during a time period occurring before the request is received and code to select a subset of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content based on the plurality of consumer values. The code can include code to define a portion of a presentation customized for execution via the consumer account based on the plurality of consumer values and using the selected subset of sharer content.

According to another general aspect a tangible computer readable storage medium can store code representing instructions that when executed are configured to cause a processor to perform a process. The code can include code to receive a request via a consumer account to access using a social media application a plurality of sharer content associated with a sharer account using the social media application. The code can include code to retrieve in response to the request a plurality of consumer values representing a plurality of interactions with the social media application the plurality of interactions being associated with the consumer account during a time period occurring before the request is received and code to define a first portion of a presentation based on the plurality of consumer values and a first portion of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content. The code can also include code to detect an interaction occurring via the consumer account with the first portion of the presentation and code to define a second portion of the presentation based on a combination of the plurality of consumer values a second portion of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content and the interaction with the first portion of the presentation.

According to yet another general aspect a computer system can include instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium. The computer system can include a presentation module configured to receive a request triggered via a consumer account to access using a social media application a plurality of sharer content associated with a sharer account of the social media application. The computer system can include a relationship module configured to access in response to the request a relationship value representing a type of relationship between a consumer identifier of the consumer account and a sharer of the sharer account within a social network associated with the sharer account. The computer system can also include a presentation composition module configured to select a subset of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content based on the relationship value and configured to define a configuration of the subset of sharer content within a portion of a presentation based on the relationship value.

According to yet another general aspect a method can include receiving a request triggered via a consumer account to access using a social media application a plurality of sharer content. The sharer content can be associated with a sharer account using the social media application. The method can also include retrieving in response to the request a consumer value and a relationship value where the consumer value can represent an interaction with the social media application via the consumer account and where the relationship value can characterize a relationship between a consumer identifier of the consumer account and a sharer identifier of the sharer account. The method can also include selecting a subset of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content based on a combination of the consumer value and the relationship value and can include defining a portion of a presentation customized for the consumer account using the selected subset of sharer content.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The sharer A and the consumer B are referred to respectively as a sharer and as a consumer based on their respective perspectives in the transactions shown in . Thus the sharer A and the consumer B are each users of the social media application but are referred to respectively as a sharer and as a consumer based on their respective roles participation within the transactions shown in . Accordingly in some embodiments the sharer A could participate as a consumer and the consumer B could participate as a sharer in a different transaction.

The consumer B is a user of the social media application that can be referred to as a consumer because the consumer is requesting content for consumption e.g. viewing . In this embodiment the consumer B is specifically requesting to view sharer content associated with the sharer A. The sharer A is a user of the social media application that can be referred to as the sharer because the content i.e. the sharer content to be consumed by the consumer B in the presentation is being shared e.g. being made available uploaded posted by the sharer A. In some embodiments the sharer A can be the subject of the sharer content . In some embodiments the sharer A and or the consumer B can be for example a person an entity a group etc. authorized to use the social media application . In some embodiments authorization to use the social media application e.g. access content associated with the sharer A using the social media application may be limited by for example the sharer A.

In some embodiments a user such as the sharer A and or the consumer B of the social media application may have a user account through which the user may access the social media application . In some embodiments a first user may access using the account of the first user content associated with an account of a second user. In some embodiments the first user may be able to access the content associated with the account of the second user only if authorized e.g. authorized by the second user to do so. In some embodiments a user account associated with the sharer A can be referred to as a sharer account and a user account associated with the consumer B can be referred to as a consumer account. In some embodiments an account of the user associated with the social media application can be referred to as a social media account or as an account . Although actions e.g. interactions of a user e.g. a consumer a sharer may not be explicitly described as being performed through or associated with e.g. attributed to a social media account any action e.g. transaction of a user described herein may be associated with the social media account of the user and information related to the action can also be associated with the social media account . For example a request triggered by a user or content accessed by the user may be associated with a social media account of the user through which these actions are performed.

In some embodiments the sharer A and or the consumer B may optionally limit access to their respective accounts e.g. content associated an account a user profile associated with an account etc. using the social media application . For example in some embodiments the consumer B via an account of the consumer B may request access to an account of the sharer A. The sharer A may optionally grant the consumer B access to e.g. access to at least a portion of the account of the sharer A or optionally deny the consumer B access to the account of the sharer A. In some embodiments the sharer A may optionally limit or allow access to the account of the sharer A so that a user such as consumer B may not be permitted to request access to the account of the sharer A. As another example the sharer A via an account of the sharer A may invite consumer B via an account of the consumer B to access at least a portion e.g. a portion of content of the account of the sharer A. The consumer B may optionally accept the invitation to access the account of the sharer A or optionally reject the invitation to access the account of the sharer A. In some embodiments the consumer B may optionally limit or allow access to the account of the consumer B so that a user such as sharer A may not even be permitted to invite consumer B to access the account of the sharer A.

The presentation can be a presentation that is customized e.g. customized in a specified configuration by the presentation module for consumption by the consumer B via the consumer device . Specifically the presentation can be customized in a targeted fashion for consumption by the consumer B via the consumer device in response to the request triggered by the consumer B. Thus the presentation may not be a predefined presentation but may instead be a presentation uniquely defined in response to the request represented by line X triggered by the consumer B.

The presentation can include various aspects that can each be customized e.g. customized with specified sharer content and or a specified format that has a visual configuration and or audio configuration for consumption by the consumer B. For example a format of the presentation the sharer content or other content included in the presentation and or so forth can be customized for the consumer B.

The presentation e.g. the content of the presentation the format of the presentation etc. can be customized by e.g. selected by defined by the presentation module based on one or more presentation values . The presentation values can include various types of values not shown in that can be received from e.g. acquired from and or defined based on information from various sources. For example the presentation values can include or can be consumer values relationship values sharer values content values third party values and or so forth. Because the consumer values the sharer values and the third party values are associated with different users i.e. consumers sharers and third party users of the social media application these values can collectively or individually be referred to as user values. More details related to presentation values and customization of presentations e.g. customization in a specified configuration based on presentation values are discussed in connection with the figures below.

The foregoing presentation values which can include consumer values relationship values sharer values content values etc. can be based on data collected upon user consent. In some implementations a user e.g. sharer A consumer B can be prompted to explicitly allow data collection. In some implementations a consumer value which is a type of presentation value associated with a consumer can be based on data collected with permission of the consumer. In some embodiments a consumer may optionally prevent use of the consumer value.

The sharer content can be referred to as sharer content because the sharer content is associated with a social media account of the sharer A. The sharer content can be made available to the presentation module and associated with the sharer account by a sharer using a sharer device via the social media application . In some embodiments the sharer content can be from content included in or associated with applications e.g. applications associated with a platform independent from the social media application . Thus content from applications interfacing with the social media application can be included in the sharer content . For example at least a portion e.g. a subset of the sharer content can be content that is linked into the sharer content and associated with the sharer account from another source e.g. from an account of the sharer A with another content source . In some embodiments the sharer content can include content from another social media application not shown and can be included in the sharer content and associated with the social media account of the sharer A by a user other than the sharer A e.g. the consumer B a third party user .

The social media application can be or can include any type of hardware and or software configured to facilitate users of the social media application to interact and or share content. A user can share content by for example uploading e.g. posting the content via the social media application to a location where the content may be accessed by another user via the social media application . In some embodiments the sharing of content can be referred to as generation of content. In some embodiments the social media application can be a collaborative environment through which one or more users such as sharer A and or consumer B can engage in collaborative work. In some embodiments the social media application can include one or more search engines social network services forums instant messaging chat applications virtual environments peer to peer communications applications and or so forth. In some embodiments the social media application can include or can be based on one or more open application programming interfaces APIs .

Although not shown in some embodiments the social media application or portions thereof can be configured to operate within for example a data center e.g. a cloud computing environment a computer system one or more server host devices and or so forth. In some embodiments the social media application or portions thereof can be configured to operate within a network. Thus the social media application can be configured to function within various types of network environments that can include one or more client devices and or one or more server devices. For example the network can be or can include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or so forth. The network can be or can include a wireless network and or wireless network implemented using for example gateway devices bridges switches and or so forth. The network can include one or more segments and or can have portions based on various protocols such as Internet Protocol IP and or a proprietary protocol. The network can include at least a portion of the Internet.

The sharer device and or the consumer device can be for example a wired device and or a wireless device e.g. wi fi enabled device and can be for example a computing entity e.g. a personal computing device a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a server device e.g. a web server a host device and or so forth. The sharer device and or the consumer device can be configured to operate based on one or more platforms e.g. one or more similar or different platforms that can include one or more types of hardware software firmware operating systems runtime libraries and or so forth.

In some embodiments the sharer device and or the consumer device can represent a cluster of devices e.g. a server farm . In such an embodiment the functionality and processing of the sharer device and or the consumer device can be distributed to several devices of the cluster of devices.

As shown in the presentation module includes three main modules a presentation value module a presentation composition module and a user interface module . The presentation value module is configured to manage e.g. acquire define send presentation values that can be used by the presentation composition module to define the presentation . Thus the presentation composition module can be configured to define the presentation based on presentation values received from the presentation value module . The user interface module is configured to manage e.g. send manipulate trigger execution of a social media user interface through which users such as the sharer C and or the consumer D can access e.g. use the social media application . For example the sharer C can access the social media application via the social media user interface using the sharer device .

The social media user interface can be for example a browser based user interface that includes various buttons links controls services and or so forth that can be used by a user such as consumer D to access the social media application . The social media user interface can be rendered within a device of the user so that the user can access one or more functions of the social media application using the social media user interface . For example the consumer D can using the consumer device access the social media user interface served by the user interface module to a browser application of the consumer device . The consumer D can then use the social media user interface to trigger one or more functions associated with the social media application . In this embodiment a request to access the sharer content associated with the sharer C can be defined in response to an interaction of the consumer D with the social media user interface using a consumer device . In response to the request the presentation can be defined by the presentation module and can be sent for execution e.g. for processing within the social media user interface so that the presentation can be consumed by the consumer D using the consumer device .

As another example the sharer C can invite the consumer D to access the sharer content associated with the sharer C via the social media user interface . In response to the consumer D accepting the invitation the presentation can be defined by the presentation module and can be sent for execution e.g. for processing within the social media user interface so that the presentation can be consumed by the consumer D using the consumer device .

In some embodiments a request for the presentation can be defined in response to the consumer D requesting access to at least a portion of the sharer content associated with an account e.g. a social media account of the sharer C. Thus a request for the presentation can be automatically defined in response to the consumer D requesting access to at least a portion of the sharer content . In some embodiments a request for the presentation can be manually triggered by the consumer D. For example a request for the presentation can be defined by the consumer D using for example a button or other request triggering mechanism included in the social media user interface .

As shown in the presentation value module includes a consumer module configured to manage e.g. define acquire one or more consumer values. A consumer value can represent one or more interactions of the consumer D with the social media application or another application independent from the social media application . In some embodiments the interaction s can be triggered via the consumer device or another consumer device . For example a consumer value or collection of consumer values can represent a behavior of the consumer D with respect to the social media application or another application independent from the social media application .

In some embodiments a consumer value can represent a usage behavior e.g. a usage pattern a usage level of the social media application by the consumer D. For example a consumer value or collection of consumer values can represent a frequency of access e.g. during a time period to the social media application . As a specific example a consumer value can represent parameters related to accessing of the social media application within a time period e.g. before a request for the presentation . In some embodiments the consumer value can represent when e.g. a time the social media application was accessed and or the type of content accessed. In some embodiments a consumer value can indicate the type of content e.g. an audio file an image file and or a subject matter e.g. photographs of people photographs of places music by particular group of the content that has been consumed by and or shared by e.g. stored by uploaded by posted by the consumer D using the social media application within a time period . In some embodiments a consumer value can reflect feedback e.g. posted a comment related to content e.g. the sharer content third party content content posted by the consumer etc. consumed by the consumer D via the consumer device using the social media application . In some embodiments one or more consumer values can indicate a geo location e.g. using global positioning system gps coordinates and or an identifier of a device e.g. a media access control MAC address when content is consumed and or shared using the social media application .

As shown in the presentation value module includes a relationship module configured to manage e.g. define acquire one or more relationship values. A relationship value can present a relationship or characteristic of a relationship between the sharer C and the consumer D. For example in some embodiments a relationship value can represent whether the sharer C and the consumer D have a close relationship or do not have a close relationship e.g. an attenuated relationship . In some embodiments relationship value can represent a type of relationship between the sharer C and the consumer . For example a relationship value can indicate that the sharer C and the consumer have a business relationship are close friends are merely acquaintances or are members of the same immediate family.

In some embodiments relationship module can be configured to define one or more relationship values based on a social network including the sharer C and the consumer D. In some embodiments the relationship value can be defined based on an analysis of a social network originating with the sharer C and or a social network originating with the consumer D. In some embodiments the social network can include many users of the social media application including the sharer C and the consumer D. For example the relationship module can be configured to analyze a number of relationships e.g. connections between the sharer C and users connected to the consumer D. These relationships can be an indicator of the closeness of the relationship between the consumer D and the sharer C. More details related to relationship values and relationship values defined based on a social network are described in connection with for example .

As shown in the presentation value module includes a sharer module configured to manage e.g. define acquire one or more sharer values. A sharer value can represent one or more interactions of the sharer C with the social media application or another application independent from the social media application . In some embodiments the interaction s can be triggered via the sharer device or another sharer device . For example a sharer value or collection of sharer values can represent a behavior of the sharer C with respect to the social media application or another application independent from the social media application .

In some embodiments a sharer value can represent a usage behavior e.g. a usage pattern a usage level of the social media application by the sharer C. For example a sharer value or collection of sharer values can represent a frequency of access e.g. during a time period to the social media application . As a specific example a sharer value can represent a time that the sharer C has accessed the social media application within a time period e.g. before a request for the presentation . These types of sharer values can be indicators of significant life events of the sharer C such as a wedding a vacation etc. In some embodiments the sharer value can represent when e.g. a time the social media application was accessed and or the type of content accessed. In some embodiments a sharer value can indicate the type of content e.g. an audio file an image file and or a subject matter e.g. photographs of people photographs of places music by particular group of the content that has been consumed by and or shared by e.g. stored by uploaded by posted by the sharer C using the social media application within a time period . The content can be the sharer content of the sharer C e.g. associated with a social media account of the sharer C and or can be content associated with one or more users other than the sharer C e.g. associated with a social media account of the other users . In some embodiments a sharer value can reflect feedback e.g. posted a comment related to content e.g. the sharer content third party content content posted by the consumer etc. consumed by the sharer C via the consumer device using the social media application . In some embodiments one or more sharer values can indicate geo location of the consumer D e.g. using global positioning system gps coordinates and or an identifier of a device e.g. a media access control MAC address when the sharer C is consuming content and or sharing content using the social media application .

As shown in the presentation value module includes a content module configured to manage e.g. define acquire one or more content values. A content value can represent or can be an indicator of for example an analysis of one or more portions of content associated with the social media application . For example a content value can represent a characteristic of a portion of the sharer content such as a type of the sharer content e.g. whether the sharer content is an image file or an audio file and or so forth. In some embodiments the content value can indicate that a portion of the sharer content is associated with e.g. classified within a particular contextual category based on a subject matter of the sharer content. For example content value can indicate a portion of the sharer content is related to a contextual category such as a category that reflects an event in the life of a user a vacation category a scenery category a family event category e.g. a wedding event category a business category an animal category and or so forth. In some embodiments content value can indicate a time that a portion of the sharer content was stored in the sharer database a time that the portion of the sharer content was created etc. In some embodiments a content value can represent that a particular portion of the sharer content is related to a contextual category.

In some embodiments the content module can be configured to define one or more content values based on analysis of more portions of content such as the sharer content . For example the content module can be configured to analyze an image and or can be configured to analyze metadata associated with the image to determine the subject matter of the image. The content module using information about the subject matter of the image can define a content value representing the subject matter of the image. In some embodiments the content module can be configured to associate one or more portions of content with a contextual category and or can be configured to rank the relevance of content with respect to other content. In some embodiments the content module can be configured to analyze the subject matter of textual content and or metadata associated with content using for example natural language processing NLP techniques. More details related to content values and details related to the analysis of content to define content values are described herein for example in connection with .

A third party value can represent one or more interactions of a third party user not shown with the social media application or another application independent from the social media application . In some embodiments the third party user can be a user of social media application that is not the sharer C or the consumer D. One or more third party values can be similar to or the same as the consumer values and or the sharer values but with respect to a third party user. For example a third party value can represent a usage behavior of a third party user a type of content and or a subject matter of the content consumed by and or shared by the third party user and or so forth.

In some embodiments the information represented by a presentation value may or may not overlap with information represented by another presentation value. For example a content value may provide information that is similar to or the same as information provided by a consumer value. In some embodiments the information represented by different presentation values can be different.

In some embodiments one or more presentation values defined by the presentation value module can be stored in the memory . For example the presentation values can be stored in a presentation value database .

Presentation values can be defined and stored in the presentation value database before a request is received for a presentation from a consumer such as the consumer D so that the presentation value s can be retrieved rather than defined in response to the request. For example when a change in a relationship with the sharer C is detected by the relationship module the relationship module can be configured to define a relationship value representing the change in the relationship. In some embodiments the content module can be configured to analyze content as the content is being uploaded using the social media application so that content values associated with the content can be defined for later use by the presentation composition module . In some embodiments the consumer module can be configured to define one or more consumer values in response to interactions of the consumer D with the social media application as the interactions are occurring or shortly after they have occurred so that the consumer value s can be used by the presentation composition module to define a presentation such as presentation .

The presentation values described above are discussed by way of example only and may not be inclusive of every type of presentation value that can be used by a presentation module such as presentation module to define a presentation such as presentation . More details related to customization of presentations such as presentation based on presentation values such as those discussed above are discussed below and in connection with the remaining figures.

The sharer content can include or can be for example various types of content. For example the sharer content can include or can be image content e.g. a Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG file audio content e.g. a .wav file textual content e.g. an American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII file a rich text formal RTF file metadata content executable content e.g. a Java program and or so forth.

As shown in the presentation composition module includes a content selector . The content selector is configured to select at least a portion of the sharer content for inclusion in the presentation based on presentation values e.g. consumer values relationship values etc. received at the presentation composition module from the presentation value module . Specifically the content selector can be configured to select all of the sharer content or a subset of the sharer content e.g. a subset of the sharer content accessible by the consumer D for inclusion in the presentation based on one or more presentation values. Because the sharer content includes various types of content it logically follows that the portion of the sharer content selected by the content selector for the presentation can include various types of content such as image content audio content textual content metadata content executable content and or so forth.

Also as shown in the presentation composition module includes a presentation formatter configured to define a format of the presentation based on presentation values e.g. consumer values relationship values etc. received at the presentation composition module from the presentation value module . Specifically the presentation formatter can be configured to define at least a portion of a format of the presentation based on one or more presentation values.

The format of the presentation can include any portion of the visual configuration audio configuration non visual or non audio configuration and or so forth of elements e.g. content background references of the presentation . The format of the presentation can include for example a layout of elements e.g. content of the presentation with respect one another the style of the presentation effects associated with elements of the presentation e.g. transitions between elements of the presentation and or so forth. The format of the presentation can also include temporal aspects of the presentation such as for example the duration of the presentation the synchronization of elements e.g. audio content visual content of presentation and or so forth.

In some embodiments the presentation can have a static presentation format i.e. a static presentation a dynamic presentation format i.e. a dynamic presentation an interactive presentation format i.e. an interactive presentation and or so forth. In some embodiments one or more portions of the presentation can be a static presentation that can be presented for consumption by the consumer D via the consumer device as for example a static webpage a static image etc. In some embodiments one or more portions of the presentation can be a streamed presentation such as a video with or without an audio track e.g. an audio portion . In some embodiments one or more portions of the presentation can be a dynamic presentation that can be defined e.g. modified as the presentation is being consumed e.g. viewed . In some embodiments at least a portion of the presentation can include one or more references e.g. links pointers through which the consumer D using the consumer device can access different content not shown than the sharer content included in the presentation another presentation not shown another portion of the presentation and or so forth. Thus one or more portions of the presentation can be an interactive presentation.

In some embodiments the presentation can be or can include an image file an audio file a text file an executable file and or so forth. For example the presentation can be or can include for example any type of executable software module such as a computer program based on but not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example the presentation may be implemented using Java C flash hyper text markup language HTML e.g. HTML5 or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools.

In some embodiments the presentation can be or can be associated with a background process with functionality that is not visible within a display of the consumer device . In some embodiments at least a portion of the presentation can define at least a portion of one or more applications or can be associated with one or more applications installed at and or executing at the consumer device .

At least a portion of the presentation can have a format defined based on one or more presentation templates stored in memory . The presentation template can be selected from the presentation templates for use in the presentation by the presentation formatter . In some embodiments the presentation templates can have a predefined format into which at least a portion of the sharer content can be inserted as part of the presentation . In some embodiments the presentation template can define e.g. can be used to define the content selected for inclusion and or the format of a presentation such as presentation . For example a presentation template from the presentation templates can have a field into which a particular type of sharer content such as sharer content can be inserted. In some embodiments the presentation template can be selected for use in a presentation based on one or more presentation values from presentation value module . More details related to the selection and use of presentation templates are described below and in connection with for example .

Also as shown in the presentation composition module includes a linking module configured to include one or more references e.g. links to content in the presentation based on one or more presentation values e.g. consumer values relationship values etc. received at the presentation composition module from the presentation value module . Specifically the linking module can be configured to include references to content other than the sharer content e.g. third party content content of the consumer D a webpage . These references can be accessed e.g. selected triggered by the consumer D during consumption of the presentation so that the consumer D may consume the referenced content. Thus the consumer D can be redirected to the other content from the presentation . In some embodiments the reference can be a reference to another presentation not shown e.g. a presentation customized for another consumer e.g. another consumer account a presentation that has not yet been defined . More details related to the linking module and references within a presentation are described below and in connection with for example .

The presentation composition module can be configured to define at least a portion of a presentation such as a portion of presentation based on a single presentation value and or based on a combination of presentation values stored in for example the presentation value database . For example the presentation composition module can be configured define an aspect of a presentation based on a single relationship value or based on a combination of a relationship value and a consumer value.

The user portion of the presentation value database includes user identifiers representing users of the social media application and user values associated with each of the user identifier . For example the user identifier U1 shown in column can represent user U1 or a social media account of the user . In this embodiment the user U1 is acting as a consumer and can be referred to as consumer U1 the user U4 is acting as a sharer and can be referred to as sharer U4 and the users U2 and U3 are acting as third party users and can respectively be referred to as third party users U2 and U3 .

As shown in user values UV1 and UV2 are associated with consumer U1. User values UV1 and UV2 can each represent for example interactions of consumer U1 with a social media application. As shown in the user portion of presentation value database some of the users as identified in the user identifiers column are associated with the same user values as identified in the user values column . For example consumer U1 and sharer U4 shown in column are both associated with the same user value UV2 shown in column which is represented by dashed line Q.

The relationship portion of the presentation value database includes relationships representing relationships between the users identified in the user portion of the presentation value database . Also the relationship portion of the presentation value database includes relationship values associated with each of the relationships . For example a relationship between consumer U1 and sharer U4 is shown in the relationship column and the relationship between consumer U1 and sharer U4 is associated with relationship value RV2 shown in column . In some embodiments the relationship value can represent a type of relationship between the users identified in the relationship column. Although not shown in in some embodiments the relationship values shown in column associated with the relationships shown in the relationship value column can be the same.

The content portion of the presentation value database includes content values associated with content of each of the users identified in the user identifier column. The content can be content associated with a social media account at each of the users identified in the user identifier column. For example a social media account of sharer U4 can be associated with content C5 and content C6 shown in column . As shown in the content portion of presentation value database in this embodiment some of the users as identified in the user identifiers column are associated with content that has the same content values as identified in the content values column . For example consumer U1 and sharer U4 shown in column have content associated with content value CV3 shown in column which is represented by dashed line R. Although not shown in in some embodiments the content shown in column associated with the users represented by the user identifiers column can be the same.

In some embodiments the data included in each of the portions of the presentation value database can be used to associate e.g. connect correlate for example content relationships and or so forth represented by presentation values when defining a customized presentation for a consumer. For example when the consumer U1 requests access to sharer content associated with the sharer U4 the user values associated with consumer U1 can be retrieved from the user portion of the presentation value database and can be used to define at least a portion of a presentation customized for the consumer U1 an account of consumer U1 . Also the user portion of the presentation value database can be used to determine that consumer U1 and the sharer U4 have a common user value UV2 represented by dashed line Q . This common user value can be used to define at least a portion of the presentation in a customized fashion for the consumer U1. The relationship portion of the database can be used to determine that the consumer U1 and sharer U4 have a relationship represented by a relationship value RV2. This relationship value can be used to define at least a portion of the presentation customized for the consumer U1. The content portion of the presentation value database can be used to determine that the sharer U4 is associated with content C5 and C6 which can be used in a presentation customized for consumer U1. Also the content portion of the presentation value database can be used to determine that consumer U1 and sharer U4 have a common content value CV3 represented by dashed line R . This common content value can be used to determine that content C6 which is associated with content value CV3 should be included in at least a portion of the presentation customized for the consumer U1.

Referring back to below are examples of presentation values that can be used by the presentation composition module e.g. the content selector of the presentation composition module the presentation formatter of the presentation composition module to define a presentation such as presentation in response to a request from the consumer D.

For example the presentation module can be configured to receive a request for a presentation such as presentation customized for the consumer D an account of consumer D . In response to the request the consumer module can be configured to send a consumer value to the content selector so that the presentation composition module can define the presentation in response to the request. The consumer value can indicate that consumer D last accessed at least a portion of the sharer content via the social media application at a first time. The content selector can be configured to select only a portion of the sharer content for inclusion in the presentation that is associated with a second time e.g. has an upload time and or a creation time after the first time as indicated within the consumer value . Accordingly the portion of the sharer content may be selected so that the presentation can be limited to the portion of the sharer content that may be new to the consumer D e.g. not already viewed by the consumer D . The presentation formatter can be configured to define a duration of the presentation or elements thereof based on a quantity of the portion of the sharer content selected for inclusion in the presentation.

Presentation composition module can be configured to define at least a portion of a presentation based on a content value indicating that several portions of the sharer content are associated with a particular contextual category. For example the presentation composition module can be can configured to receive a first content value indicating that sharer content from the sharer content is associated with a contextual category and receive a second content value indicating that sharer content from the sharer content is also associated with the same contextual category. The content selector of the presentation composition module can be configured to select sharer content and sharer content for inclusion in a presentation based on both of these portions of the sharer content being associated with the same contextual category. Accordingly the presentation formatter can be configured to define a presentation associated with the contextual category. In some embodiments the presentation formatter can be configured to include sharer content and in a presentation template from the presentation templates that is associated with the contextual category based on the content values . In some embodiments the linking module can be configured to include one or more references in the presentation to content other than the sharer content e.g. content associated with a third party user a webpage that is associated with the contextual category based on the content values .

Presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation such as presentation based on a combination of a content value and a relationship value. For example the presentation composition module can receive a content value from the content module that indicates that a portion of the sharer content is associated with a family event e.g. a wedding a vacation . The presentation composition module can also receive a relationship value from the relationship module indicating that the consumer D is a family member of the sharer C. Accordingly the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation that includes the portion of the sharer content based on a determination that the consumer D who is related to the sharer C may be interested in the portion of the sharer content based on the relationship represented by the relationship value. The nexus between the relationship value and the context value can be defined within or determined using a presentation value database that can be accessed by the composition module to make the determination. Specifically the content selector can be configured to select a portion of the sharer content and or the presentation formatter can be configured to define a format of the presentation based on the selected portion of the sharer content in response to the nexus between the content value and the relationship value.

In some embodiments the linking module can be configured to include one or more references in the presentation based on the combination of the content value and the relationship value. For example the linking module can be configured to include a reference to content having the same content value when the content was shared by a user having a relationship with the consumer D that is the same as the relationship between the consumer D and the sharer C as represented by the relationship value.

If the presentation composition module receives a relationship value from the relationship module indicating that the consumer D has non family relationship with the sharer C such as for example a business relationship with the sharer C the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation that includes a portion of the sharer content that is identified based on a content value as being less personal e.g. not in a contextual category related to a family event a business related contextual category . Thus the presentation can be defined by the presentation composition module based on the lack of a nexus between the relationship value and the content value as defined within a presentation value database that can be accessed by the composition module .

The presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation such as presentation based on a consumer value indicating the frequency that a consumer accesses e.g. logs onto the social media application . For example a consumer value can indicate that the consumer D occasionally accesses the social media application e.g. accesses the social media application on average once a month or once a week . The content selector can be configured to define a presentation that includes a portion of the sharer content related to significant events of the sharer C over the last month based on this consumer value. The significant events of the sharer C can be determined based on one or more content values identifying portion of the sharer content as significant events. If the consumer value had indicated that the consumer D accesses the social media application with a frequency that satisfies a threshold condition e.g. accesses the social media application a threshold number of times the content selector can be configured to define a presentation that includes a portion of the sharer content related to all of the events of the sharer C.

In some embodiments the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on a consumer value indicating prior consuming behavior of the consumer such as consumer D. The presentation formatter can be configured to define a duration of a presentation based on a consumer value indicating that a consumer on average closes a presentation after viewing the presentation for less than a time period even if the duration of the presentation is longer than the time period. Accordingly the presentation formatter can be configured to define a presentation for the consumer D that has a duration that is less than or equal to 30 seconds. Similarly the presentation composition module can be configured to define presentation based on a sharer value indicating prior consuming behavior of a sharer. The presentation formatter can be configured to define a duration of the presentation based on a sharer value indicating that the sharer C on average consumes presentations longer than 20 seconds.

The presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on interactions of a consumer with references included in a presentation as represented by one more consumer values. For example in some embodiments linking module of the presentation composition module can be configured to include multiple references within the presentation in response to a consumer value indicating that the consumer D frequently accesses references included within other presentations. The references can be references to content of a particular type e.g. video content and or a particular subject matter e.g. related to a particular topic in accordance with a consumer value indicating that the consumer D may only or often access references to content of a type and or subject matter.

The presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on consumer value indicating that the consumer D prefers to consume specified content or presentations . The content could be at least a portion of the sharer content within a presentation or other content e.g. webpage . The preference for the content or presentations can be determined based on for example feedback produced using the social media application . For example the presentation composition module can be configured to receive a consumer value indicating that the consumer D prefers or frequently consumes a type of content. The content module can be configured to determine that the type of content is associated with a specified contextual category and can be configured to define a content value representing the specified contextual category. The content selector can be configured to select a portion of the sharer content for inclusion in a presentation such as presentation when the portion of the sharer content that is related to the specified contextual category based on a content value associated with the portion of the sharer content .

In some embodiments the presentation formatter can be configured to define a format of the presentation based on the type of content preferred by the consumer D being associated with the same or similar presentation format. In some embodiments the linking module can be configured to include references in a presentation to content that is similar to the type of content that is preferred by the consumer D. In some embodiments the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on one or more sharer values indicating that the sharer C prefers to consume specified content or presentations .

The presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation such as presentation based on one or more third party values. For example a third party value indicating that many third party users have been accessing and or sharing e.g. posting content associated with a specified topic represented by a content value can be received at the presentation composition module from the presentation value module . The content selector of the presentation composition module can be configured to select a portion of the sharer content for inclusion in a presentation such as presentation based on a combination of the third party value and content value. In some embodiments the third party value can be defined based on results from for example a search engine that are associated with a general population that may not include the sharer C and or the consumer D. For example the third party value can be an indicator of a number of hits for a particular term using a search engine and or a website page rank.

The presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on content shared by the consumer D when acting as a sharer. For example the consumer D may post content via the social media application to a social media account of the consumer D. The content posted by the consumer D can be analyzed by the content module to determine that the posted content is associated with a particular contextual category and can be configured to define a content value representing the particular contextual category. Accordingly the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation that includes a portion of the sharer content that has a content value that is the same as or similar to the content value associated with the content posted by the consumer D.

In some embodiments the content posted by the consumer can be analyzed by the presentation formatter to determine a format associated with the content posted by the consumer D. The presentation formatter when defining a presentation can use a format that is similar to the format associated with the content posted by the consumer D.

In some embodiments the content posted by the consumer D can be analyzed by the linking module to determine whether or not references are associated with the content posted by the consumer D. The linking module can be configured to include references in one or more presentations customized for the consumer D that include references that are similar to the references associated with the content posted by the consumer D.

In some embodiments the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on a presentation value indicating prior consuming or sharing behavior of a sharer such as sharer C . The presentation formatter can be configured to define a format of the presentation customized for the consumer D based on a sharer value indicating that the sharer C prefers to access presentations having the same format.

In some embodiments the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation that is different than a previously defined presentation. For example if a first subset of the sharer content has already been included in a first customized presentation for the consumer D in response to a first request for a presentation triggered by the consumer D the content selector can be configured to include a second subset of the sharer content in a second customize presentation for the consumer D or another consumer in response to a second request for a presentation triggered by the consumer D or another consumer . In some embodiments the second subset of the sharer content can be defined as a different or mutually exclusive subset from the first subset of the sharer content . In some embodiments the presentation formatter of the presentation composition module can be configured to define a customized presentation for the consumer D or another consumer with a format that is different than a format of a previously customize presentation for the consumer D or another consumer . In some embodiments the linking module of the presentation composition module turns can be configured to exclude one or more references from future presentations if the reference s were not accessed e.g. were ignored in previous presentations.

In some embodiments the presentation composition module can be configured to define a presentation based on a quality e.g. a resolution a signal integrity etc. of the content. For example the content selector can be configured to select a first portion of the sharer content rather than a second portion of the sharer content based on a content value indicating that the first portion of the sharer content has a lower quality than the second portion of the sharer content .

As shown in the presentation module includes a conflict resolution module . The conflict resolution module is configured to resolve conflicts between presentation values based on for example a rules based algorithm priority values associated with each of the presentation values and or so forth. Conflicts can include for example selection of a first subset of sharer content based on a first presentation value and selection of a second subset of sharer content different from the first subset of sharer content based on the second presentation value. In some embodiments the selection of the first subset of sharer content can be mutually exclusive with the selection of the second subset of sharer content. Accordingly a conflict related to the selection of a subset of the sharer content can arise based on the first presentation value and the second presentation value.

For example the conflict resolution module of the presentation composition module can be configured to resolve a conflict between a content value and a relationship value using a rules based algorithm. Thus the conflict resolution module can be configured to trigger the presentation composition module to define a presentation based on the content value or the relationship value using a rules based algorithm. In some embodiments conflicts between presentation values can be resolved by the conflict resolution module based on for example a priority value associated with each of the content values. For example conflict resolution module can be configured to trigger the presentation composition module to define a presentation based on consumer values having priority as represented by a priority value over sharer values and relationship values which may be associated with lower priorities as represented by priority values and sharer values having priority as represented by a priority value over content values which may be associated with a lower priority as represented by a priority value .

As shown in the presentation module includes a notification module . In some embodiments the notification module can be configured to send an indicator to the consumer D via the consumer device that a presentation has been customized for consumption by the consumer D via an account of consumer D . In some embodiments the indicator can be presented to the user via the social media user interface . In some embodiments the notification module can be configured to provide an option to consume or ignore the customized presentation. In some embodiments the notification module can be configured to send an indicator e.g. send an indicator via the social media user interface to the sharer C via the sharer device that a presentation has been customized for consumption by the consumer D via the consumer device .

In some embodiments the notification module can be configured to prompt the sharer C to share content for inclusion in one or more presentations based on one or more presentation values. For example the notification module can be configured to prompt the sharer C to share content associated with a particular contextual category based on one or more preferences for that particular contextual category represented within consumer values associated with one or more consumers such as consumer D .

As shown in the sharer database is configured to store preferences . These preferences can be preferences of the sharer C that can be used to define at least a portion of a presentation such as presentation . For example the preferences can indicate that certain presentation value should be used or certain presentation values should not be used to define the presentation . In some embodiments the preferences can indicate that the presentation should be defined with or cannot be defined with specific portions of the sharer content and or that the presentation should be defined with or cannot be defined with a specified format e.g. specified duration a specified presentation template etc. .

Although not shown in in some embodiments preferences of the consumer D can be used to define a presentation for the consumer D. The preferences of the consumer D can be similar to the preferences of the sharer described in connection with preferences .

In some embodiments one or more portions of the components shown in the social media application in can be or can include a hardware based module e.g. a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a memory a firmware module and or a software based module e.g. a module of computer code a set of computer readable instructions that can be executed at a computer . For example in some embodiments one or more portions of the presentation module can be or can include a software module configured for execution by at least one processor not shown . In some embodiments the functionality of the components can be included in different modules and or components than those shown in . For example although not shown the functionality of the presentation value module can be included in a different module than the presentation value module or divided into several different modules.

The presentation value database and or sharer database shown in can be repositories within which data associated with users such as sharer C is stored. In some embodiments the presentation value database and or the sharer database can be divided into more than one database or consolidated with other databases e.g. a general database of the social media application .

Although not shown in some embodiments the memory can be implemented as more than one memory component e.g. more than one random access memory RAM component or disk drive memory associated with the social media application . In some embodiments the memory can be a database memory. In some embodiments the memory can be or can include a non local memory. For example the memory can be or can include a memory shared by multiple devices not shown . In some embodiments the memory can be associated with a server device not shown within a network and configured to serve the social media application .

Although not shown in in some embodiments the presentation module can be configured to include content other than sharer content in one or more presentations customized for one or more consumers one or more consumer accounts . For example the presentation module can be configured to include third party content consumer content content from social media accounts of a multiple sharers that may be related as indicated by relationship values etc. in the presentation customized for the consumer D based on one or more presentation values.

The presentation can be defined by a presentation module based on consumer values representing the consumer interactions with the social media application. The consumer values representing the consumer interactions at times VA VB VC and VD can be respectively referred to as consumer values VA VB VC and VD. The consumer values can be defined by for example a consumer module of a presentation value module such as consumer module of presentation value module shown in .

In this embodiment the consumer interactions at times VA and VD each represent times at which a consumer has accessed the social media application e.g. accessed by logging into the social media application to consume content associated with social media accounts of users other than the sharer. The consumer interaction at time VB represents a time at which the consumer has accessed sharer content associated with a social media account of the sharer using the social media application. The consumer value VB can indicate that the consumer accessed sharer content at time VB. Finally the consumer interaction at time VC represents a time that content is shared by the consumer when acting as a sharer to a social media account of the consumer. The consumer value VC can indicate the type of content shared by the consumer at time VC.

The presentation can be defined by the presentation module to include only the sharer content shared by the sharer at times T3 and T4. The sharer content included in the presentation can be limited to the sharer content shared at times T3 and T4 because the consumer last accessed content of the sharer at time VB after time T2 as indicated by consumer value VB. The presentation can also be defined by the presentation module to include sharer content that may be related to the content consumed by the consumer at times VA and VD as well as the content shared by the consumer at time VC as indicated by consumer values corresponding with their consumer interactions at these times.

As shown in the presentation is defined by multiple consumer values associated with consumer interactions with the social media application prior to receipt of a request to access the sharer content. In some embodiments the consumer values associated with the consumer actions can be defined and stored in a presentation value database such as presentation value database shown in where they can be efficiently accessed in response to a request for sharer content being received. Although not shown in in some embodiments the presentation could be defined based on interactions of a third party user with the social media application.

In some embodiments only a portion of available consumer values may be considered for use in defining a presentation such as presentation . For example only consumer values associated with consumer interactions occurring within a time frame may be considered for use in defining a presentation such as presentation . In some embodiments only a certain number of consumer values may be considered for use in defining a presentation. In some embodiments only consumer values of a particular type may be considered by presentation module.

During the pre request activity stage one or more presentation values can be defined. For example consumer values representing interactions of a consumer with a social media application can be defined content values associated with content shared by a sharer third party values representing interactions of a third party with the social media application and or so forth can be defined during the pre request activity stage . In some embodiments for example one or more relationship values representing the relationship between the sharer and the consumer can be defined and stored in a database e.g. a presentation value database where they can be retrieved.

During the request stage a request for a presentation can be defined and received in response to a consumer requesting access to sharer content via the social media application. In some embodiments multiple requests can be defined and or received in parallel. In some embodiments the consumer can specifically request via a user interface associated with the social media application that a presentation customized for the consumer an account of the consumer be defined by the presentation module. In some embodiments a notification module such as notification module shown in can be configured to notify a sharer that a request for a customized presentation for the consumer has been received.

During the presentation value retrieval stage one or more presentation values that can be used to define a presentation can be retrieved from for example a presentation value database such as presentation value database shown in . In some embodiments the presentation values can be retrieved by presentation value module such as presentation value module shown in . In some embodiments only presentation values associated directly with the consumer such as consumer values and relationship values can be retrieved and used to define a presentation. In some embodiments only presentation values that are allowed based on a preference of a sharer for use in defining a presentation may be retrieved. In some embodiments during the presentation value retrieval stage one or more presentation values can be defined. In some embodiments during the presentation value retrieval stage conflicts between presentation values can be resolved a conflict resolution module such as conflict resolution module shown in .

During the content retrieval stage one or more presentation values can be used to select sharer content or other content for inclusion in a presentation customized for the consumer. In some embodiments the sharer content can be selected by a content selector such as content selector shown in .

During the presentation format stage one or more presentation values can be used to define a customized format of the presentation for the consumer. The format of the presentation can be defined based on the sharer content that is selected. In some embodiments at least a portion of the content retrieval stage and at least a portion of the presentation format stage can be performed at the same time.

During the presentation execution stage at least a portion of the presentation is sent for consumption by the consumer using for example a consumer device. In some embodiments one or more functions associated with the stages shown in can be performed iteratively. For example a first portion of the presentation can be defined during the content retrieval stage and during the presentation format stage by a presentation module based on a first set of presentation values. While the first portion of the presentation is sent for consumption by the consumer during the presentation execution stage a second portion of the presentation can be defined during the during the content retrieval stage and during the presentation format stage by the presentation module based on a second set of presentation values.

In some embodiments the stages or a portion thereof can be performed in a different order than that shown in . For example one or more presentation values may be retrieved during another presentation value retrieval stage not shown between the content retrieval stage and the presentation format stage .

As shown in the sharer S1 and the consumer V1 both have relationships with several of the other users. For example the sharer S1 has a relationship with user V2 and a relationship with user V4. Consumer V1 also has a relationship with user V2 and a relationship with user V4. As shown in the sharer S1 has relationships with users that the consumer V1 does not also have a relationship. Specifically the sharer S1 has a relationship with user V5 and the consumer V1 does not also have a relationship with user V5.

In some embodiments the relationships can be defined between the users based on a user accepting a relationship with another user using a social media application . For example when sharer S1 authorizes user V4 using a social media application to access content associated with sharer S1 a relationship between sharer S1 and user V4 can be defined and the relationship between the sharer S1 and the user V4 can be included in the social network .

The database also includes relationship values representing characteristics of a relationship between the users identified by the user identifier and users identified by the relationship target identifiers . The relationship characteristics that are represented within the database are relationship strength values and relationship type values . The relationship strength values can represent a relative quantity of common relationships between the users identified within the user identifiers column and the users identified within the relationship target identifiers column. The relationship strength values shown in the relationship strength value column are either Tier0 Tier1 Tier2 or no value represented by a line . The relationship type values can represent a type of relationship between the users identified within the user identifiers column and the users identified within the relationship target identifiers column. The relationship type values shown in the relationship type values column are either Family Acquaintance Business or no value represented by a line . Although not shown in in some implementations additional types of relationships such as a friend relationship can be included.

For example as shown in the sharer S1 has a relationship with the consumer V1 that has a Tier2 relationship strength value shown in column and has a Family relationship type value shown in column . The relationship between the sharer S1 and the consumer V1 can be characterized as a Tier2 relationship because the sharer S1 and the consumer V1 also have relationships with two common users user V2 and user V4. Specifically sharer S1 has a relationship with user V4 and consumer V1 also has a relationship with user V4. Also sharer S1 has a relationship with user V2 and consumer V1 also has a relationship with user V2. This is contrasted with the Tier1 relationship between sharer S1 and user V2 which is characterized as such because sharer S1 and user V2 have a relationship that is common with one user consumer V1.

In this embodiment the relationship type value can be defined by the consumer V1 and or the sharer S1 when a relationship is defined between the consumer V1 and the sharer S1. Thus the consumer V1 can be identified using a social media application by the sharer S1 as having a family relationship with the sharer S1. In some embodiments a relationship type value can be determined based on analysis of interactions between the consumer V1 and the sharer S1.

As shown in user V3 and sharer S1 do not have direct relationship. Because there is no relationship between the sharer S1 identified within the user identifiers column and user V3 identified within the relationship target identifiers column the database shown in does not illustrate a relationship strength value or a relationship type value in the row associated with user V3.

The relationship values shown in can be used by for example a presentation module to define or more presentations customized for a consumer an account of the consumer . For example a content selector such as content selector shown in can be configured to select a subset of sharer content associated with sharer S1 for inclusion in a presentation for consumer V1 based on the Family relationship type value shown in column . The content selector can be configured to select a different subset of sharer content associated with sharer S1 for inclusion in a presentation for user V2 based on the Acquaintance relationship type value shown in column .

In some embodiments relationships that are not directly connected with sharer S1 can be used to define a customized presentation for the consumer V1. For example interactions between consumer V1 and user V3 can inform customization of the presentation for the consumer V1. Accordingly the relationship between consumer V1 and user V3 and presentation values that can be associated with the relationship between consumer V1 and user V3 can be used to customize a presentation for consumer V1.

In some embodiments relationships that are not directly connected with sharer S1 or the target of a social network can be referred to as attenuated relationships. Relationships that are directly connected with sharer S1 can be referred to as first degree relationships. For example the relationship between sharer S1 and consumers V1 V2 V4 and V5 can be referred to as a first degree relationship. Relationships between S1 and users that are not directly connected to S1 but that are directly connected to users that have a first degree relationship with sharer S1 can be referred to as second degree relationships. For example the relationship between S1 and user V3 can be referred to as a second degree relationship because consumer V1 is directly related to sharer S1 and consumer V3 is directly related to consumer V1 but consumer V3 is not directly connected to sharer S1. In some embodiments presentation values associated with higher degree relationships e.g. third degree relationships can be used to define a presentation for a consumer.

In some embodiments information about the relationships within the social network can be defined as changes to the social network occur. For example when a new relationship is defined between one user and the sharer S1 information about the new relationship can be define and represented within the database by a relationship module .

As shown in the sharer content included in the shared database is included in two different contextual categories contextual category CCA and contextual category CCB. Image content through textual content audio content and metadata content are included in contextual category CCA and image content through and textual content are included in contextual category CCB. In some embodiments the contextual categories which can be represented by content values can represent a vacation category a scenery category a family event category e.g. a wedding event category a business category an animal category and or so forth.

As shown in image content and textual content are included in both the contextual categories. In some embodiments contextual categories can be mutually exclusive. Thus sharer content included in a first contextual category may not be included in a second contextual category because the second contextual category is exclusive of the first contextual category.

In this embodiment the sharer content is divided into the two different categories by the presentation module . Specifically the sharer content can be divided into the contextual categories by a content module not shown of the presentation module . In some embodiments the presentation module can be configured to determine that a portion e.g. image content through of the sharer content is to be included in a contextual category e.g. contextual category CCA based on an analysis of the subject matter of the portion of the sharer content and or based on metadata associated with the portion of the sharer content.

As shown in image content is associated with metadata . The metadata can describe an aspect of the image content . For example the metadata can indicate that the image content was uploaded from and or created at a geo location uploaded at a time is related to other sharer content and or so forth. In some embodiments the presentation module can be configured to associate image content to contextual category CCA based on the metadata associated with image content . Similarly image content is associated with textual content that can describe an aspect of the image content .

In some embodiments one or more portions of the sharer content can be included in a contextual category as specified by the sharer of the sharer content. For example a sharer can associate image content e.g. image content as being part of a contextual category. In some embodiments the sharer can identify the image content as being part of the contextual category when the image content is being shared e.g. uploaded via a social media application.

In this embodiment the composition time window is a sliding composition time window that indicates the portion of the presentation that is being defined. The presentation is defined using a sliding composition time window such as composition time window so that portions of the presentation can be dynamically defined as other portions of the presentation previously defined are being consumed by a consumer. Accordingly portions of the presentation can be sent to a consumer for consumption before the entire presentation has been defined to reduce delay e.g. minimize delay between a request for the presentation and actual sending of the presentation for consumption.

As shown in the presentation module is configured to define the portion of the presentation that is included within the composition time window that has a fixed duration CT1. The composition time window is used to illustrate the portion of the presentation that is being defined by the presentation module . After the portion of the presentation has been defined by the presentation module the portion of the presentation can be sent to a consumer for consumption. The presentation module can be configured to define a portion of the presentation having a duration CT2 corresponding to the fixed duration CT1 of the composition time window while the portion of the presentation is being consumed by the consumer. Although not shown in the composition time window can be associated with the portion of the presentation as portion the presentation is being defined.

In some embodiments portions of the presentation can be defined until the presentation is closed or until content that can be included in the presentation is exhausted . In some embodiments the presentation can be dynamically defined based on interactions of a consumer with the presentation . For example after the portion of the presentation has been defined by the presentation module and is being consumed by a consumer an interaction of the consumer with the portion of the presentation can be detected. The portion of the presentation can be defined or modified based on the interaction of the consumer with the portion of the presentation . Thus the portion of the presentation can be customized for the consumer based on the interaction of the consumer with the portion of the presentation . Specifically if a consumer interacts with image content included in the portion the portion can be defined with a portion of the sharer content included in sharer database that is similar to image content such as image content which is included in the same contextual category CCA as image content . Additional details related to interactively and or dynamically defining a presentation are described in connection with for example .

As shown in the portion of the presentation that has been defined includes sharer content exclusively from contextual category CCA. The sharer content can be exclusively selected from contextual category CCA for inclusion in the portion of the presentation based on one or more presentation values e.g. consumer values relationship values . In some embodiments a duration P10 of the presentation can be defined based on one or more presentation values.

As shown in the portion of the presentation includes both visual content as well as audio content. In some embodiments the format of visual content and the format of the audio content can be defined based on one more presentation values. For example image content and image content can be selected for inclusion in the presentation rather than image content based on a consumer value indicating that the consumer of the presentation has previously accessed image content similar to image content and image content . In some embodiments the inclusion of image content before image content can be determined based on a consumer value associated with the consumer of the presentation . Also the audio content can be included in the presentation based on a consumer value indicating that the consumer of the presentation often listens to audio content similar to audio content . In this embodiments metadata content which is typically not visible in contrast to the textual content is converted into visual metadata content that can be viewed within the presentation by the presentation module .

A plurality of consumer values are retrieved in response to the request block . The plurality of consumer values can represent a plurality of interactions with the social media application via the consumer account during a time period occurring before the request is received. In some embodiments the plurality of consumer values can be defined by at least a portion of the presentation module. In some embodiments the plurality of consumer values can be retrieved from a presentation value database.

A subset of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content is selected based on the plurality of consumer values block . The sharer content can include content shared by the sharer via the sharer account or any content associated with a social media account of the sharer. Although not shown in in some embodiments the subset of sharer content can be selected from the plurality of sharer content based on a variety of presentation values including the plurality of consumer values. In some embodiments the subset of sharer content can be associated with a specified contextual category can be associated with a time frame and or so forth.

A portion of a presentation customized for the consumer based on the plurality of consumer values and using the selected subset of sharer content is defined block . In some embodiments a format of the presentation can be customized for execution via the consumer account based on the plurality of consumer values. In some embodiments the presentation can be customized using a presentation template which is selected based on one or more presentation values including the consumer values.

As shown in the presentation template includes several fields fields through into which at least a portion of sharer content can be included as part of a presentation customized for a consumer. A request for the presentation can be triggered by the consumer when accessing the sharer content using the social media application .

Although not shown in the fields of the presentation template can be configured for a specific type of content. For example field can be configured to receive image content and field can be configured to receive audio content. In some embodiments the presentation template can have a specified style a visual theme a contextual theme and or so forth. For example a background image associated with presentation template can be configured for a particular visual or contextual theme. In some embodiments one or more of the presentation templates can have or can include for example fields for animated moving images a slideshow format bullet points textual themes a chronologically based format and or so forth.

The presentation formatter can be configured to select the presentation template from the presentation templates and based on one or more presentation values stored in a presentation value database . For example the presentation template can be related to a first contextual category and the other presentation templates i.e. presentation templates through can be related to a second contextual category. In response to a request for a presentation customized for a consumer the presentation formatter can be configured to receive a consumer value that indicates that the consumer has previously viewed content related to the first contextual category but has not previously viewed content related to the second contextual category. Based on this consumer value the presentation formatter can be configured to select the presentation template from the set of presentation templates as a basis for a format of the presentation customized for the consumer.

As another example the presentation template can be used to define a format of a presentation with a specified visual style. In response to a request for a presentation customized for a consumer the presentation formatter can be configured to receive a consumer value indicating that the consumer prefers viewing content or sharing content having the specified visual style. Based on this consumer value the presentation formatter can be configured to select the presentation template from the set of presentation templates as a basis for a format of the presentation customized for the consumer.

In some embodiments one or more of the presentation templates can be customized for a particular consumer. For example at least a portion of the presentation template can be defined by a sharer for use for a presentation for a consumer and the presentation template defined for the consumer can be stored in the memory for later retrieval. The presentation template even if customized for the consumer can be used to define a customized presentation for another consumer.

In this embodiment the reference is a link to presentation and the reference is a link to presentation . Accordingly when the reference is accessed e.g. selected triggered for example by a consumer during execution e.g. consumption of the presentation execution of the presentation is triggered as represented by arrow R1 . In some embodiments when execution of the presentation is triggered execution of the presentation is suspended or terminated. Also when the reference is access for example by a consumer during execution of the presentation execution of the presentation is triggered as represented by arrow R2 . In some embodiments when execution of the presentation is triggered execution of the presentation is suspended or terminated. Thus accessing the references within the presentations causes redirection to another presentation or portion thereof .

For example at least a portion e.g. a portion within a composition time window of presentation can be defined in response to a request for a presentation customized for a consumer. The presentation can be sent for consumption by the consumer and the consumer can access reference during execution e.g. consumption of the presentation . In response to accessing the reference the presentation can be suspended and execution of presentation can be triggered. In some embodiments presentation can be defined in response to the reference being accessed so that the presentation can be executed. At the end of execution of the presentation execution of presentation can be resumed as represented by arrow R3 . In some embodiments execution of presentation can be resumed at a portion of the presentation including the reference or execution of presentation can be resumed at a different portion of the presentation . Alternatively reference included in presentation can be accessed by the consumer during execution of presentation . In response to accessing the reference execution of the presentation can be suspended and execution of presentation can be triggered as represented by arrow R2 . At the end of presentation execution of presentation can be resumed at a portion of the presentation including the reference or a different portion as represented by arrow R4 or execution of presentation of a portion of the presentation including the reference or a different portion can be resumed as represented by arrow R5 .

In some embodiments one or more of the presentations can be dynamically defined as a consumer navigates through each of the presentations. Thus only portions of the presentations that are being consumed or triggered for consumption may be defined. In some embodiments presentation presentation and presentation can each be portions of a single interactive presentation that is dynamically defined. Thus presentation presentation and presentation can collectively define a single presentation. In some embodiments one or more of the presentations can be interactively consumed. For example consumption of the presentation can be paused consumed again stopped stored for later consumption tagged forwarded to another consumer and or so forth.

In some embodiments the reference can be associated with a specified sharer content of the presentation and the presentation can be additional sharer content or other content e.g. third party content consumer content associated with the specified sharer content. For example the reference in the presentation can be associated with sharer content that is included in a specified contextual category. The presentation can be customized for the consumer with additional content e.g. sharer content third party content included in the specified contextual category. Thus the consumer of the sharer content if particularly interested in sharer content associated with the contextual category can be redirected to presentation that includes additional content associated with the specified contextual category by accessing the reference .

In some embodiments one or more references can be included in one or more presentations by a linking module such as linking module shown in . A linking module can be configured to include one or more references in a presentation based on one or more presentation values stored in for example a presentation value database. For example in response to a request for a presentation for a consumer a presentation module can be configured to define a presentation that includes sharer content and or a format customized for the consumer. The sharer content can be associated with a specified contextual category as represented by a content value. Based on the content value a linking module can be configured to include a reference in the presentation to additional content associated with the specified contextual category.

In some embodiments one or more references can be configured to trigger execution of another portion of a presentation. For example a reference included in the first portion of the presentation that is accessed during execution e.g. consumption of the first portion of the presentation can trigger execution of a second portion of the presentation that may or may not be adjacent to the first portion of the presentation . Execution of the first portion of the presentation can be suspended in response to the reference being accessed. In some embodiments triggering of execution of the second portion of the presentation can be triggered in a fashion that a consumer the presentation may not perceive that the first portion of the presentation has been suspended and that execution of a new portion of the presentation i.e. the second portion of the presentation has been initiated. Specifically when the reference included in the first portion of the presentation is accessed the second portion of the presentation which is started in response to the reference being accessed can be combined using a transition e.g. a smooth transition with the first portion of presentation that is suspended.

A plurality of consumer values are retrieved in response to the request block . The plurality of consumer values represent a plurality of interactions with the social media application via the consumer account by the consumer during a time period occurring before the request is received. In some embodiments the plurality of consumer values can be defined by at least a portion of the presentation module. In some embodiments the plurality of consumer values can be retrieved from a presentation value database.

A first portion of a presentation is defined based on the plurality of consumer values and a first portion of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content block . In some embodiments a format of the first portion of sharer content within the presentation can be defined based on the plurality of consumer values. The first portion of sharer content can include content shared by the sharer or any content associated with a social media account of the sharer. Although not shown in in some embodiments the first portion of sharer content can be selected from the plurality of sharer content based on a variety of presentation values including the plurality of consumer values. In some embodiments the first portion of sharer content can be associated with a specified contextual category can be associated with a time frame and or so forth.

An interaction occurring via the consumer account with the first portion of the presentation is detected block . In some embodiments the interaction of concern with the first portion of the presentation can be an interaction with a reference included in the first portion of presentation. In some embodiments reference can be included in the first portion of the presentation by a linking module such as linking module shown in .

A second portion of the presentation is defined based on a combination of the plurality of consumer values a second portion of sharer content from the plurality of sharer content and the interaction with the first portion of the presentation block . In some embodiments a format of the first portion of sharer content within the presentation can be defined based on the plurality of consumer values. The first portion of sharer content can include content shared by the sharer via the sharer account or any content associated with a social media account of the sharer. Although not shown in FIG. in some embodiments the first portion of sharer content can be selected from the plurality of sharer content based on a variety of presentation values including the plurality of consumer values. In some embodiments the first portion of sharer content can be associated with a specified contextual category can be associated with a time frame and or so forth.

Implementations of the various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device computer readable medium or in a propagated signal for processing by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be processed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the processing of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user ca provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments. It should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

