---

title: Space-filling polyhedral sorbents
abstract: Solid sorbents, systems, and methods for pumping, storage, and purification of gases are disclosed. They derive from the dynamics of porous and free convection for specific gas/sorbent combinations and use space filling polyhedral microliths with facial aplanarities to produce sorbent arrays with interpenetrating interstitial manifolds of voids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09370765&OS=09370765&RS=09370765
owner: BLACKPAK, INC.
number: 09370765
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141003
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE AR0000462 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to solid sorbents systems and methods for pumping storage and purification of gases.

Sorbent materials are widely used for the pumping storage and purification of gases and gas mixtures and as elements of refrigeration systems. These solid sorbent materials are contained in a pressure vessel that includes one or more apertures through which gas is added or removed and free space or ullage. Since the quantity of adsorbed gas is proportional to the amount of sorbent storage capacity is maximized when the sorbent completely fills the vessel and the ullage is zero. However gas flow into and out of porous materials is slower than free convection through the ullage so tanks without ullage may not provide adequate uptake and discharge rates for specific applications.

Transport of gas into and out of the sorbent couples flow through the apertures and ullage by free convection to flow through the sorbent by porous convection. The former is described by the Navier Stokes equations of fluid dynamics while the latter is described by D Arcy s equation and its variants. Convection which is driven by pressure gradients is always faster through free space than through porous media for the same geometry and pressure drop.

The total rate of gas flow into or out of the sorbent is proportional the surface area that is exposed to ullage while the total capacity is proportional the sorbent s volume. A standard method for increasing the surface area S in a fixed total volume V is to pack the pressure vessel with spherical particles whose surface area to volume ratio is inversely proportional to the particle radius r 

The present disclosure provides sorbents systems and methods useful for storing pumping and purifying gases. The disclosed sorbents systems and methods provide for balancing gas phase and porous transport in sorbent media. The disclosed systems and methods use sorbent microliths whose shapes are based on space filling polyhedra with reproducible aplanarities that facilitate control of the volume and geometry of the free interstitial spaces.

In one aspect disclosed are methods of shaping and packing solid sorbent material in a pressure vessel to achieve maximum storage capacity subject to constraints imposed by rates of charging and discharging gas from the vessel. In another aspect disclosed are systems for adsorbing or desorbing gas the system comprising a pressure vessel with one or more apertures a plurality of space filling polyhedral shaped sorbent materials with aplanarities on each face that when packed in an ordered array define an interstitial free volume whose dimensions and shape are selected to accommodate a desired rate of charging or discharging gas from the system. In another aspect disclosed is a method of manufacturing a solid sorbent material whose storage capacity is maximized subject to constraints imposed by rates of charging and discharging a vessel containing the sorbent.

Disclosed are systems and methods for arranging solid sorbent materials in a tank to maximize the storage capacity of adsorbed gas subject to constraints on the rates of charging and discharging it. The present disclosure addresses the fundamental mismatch between gas flow through free spaces and through porous media using the geometry of the sorbent to optimize the sorbent capacity subject to constraints imposed by discharge and filling rates. The disclosed systems and methods use close packed arrays of sorbent microliths. The microliths have shapes based on space filling polyhedra with reproducible aplanarities that facilitate control of the volume and geometry of the free interstitial spaces.

The disclosed systems and methods provide several advantages. Without aplanarities there is no manifold of free space between microliths so the rate of gas uptake or discharge is proportional to the exterior surface area where the ullage and sorbent are in contact. The packing density here defined as the fraction of available volume occupied by the sorbent is one and the storage capacity is therefore maximal. For any particular geometry of the sorbent and a defined exhaust or fill pressure there is an optimum modulation depth of the aplanarity at which the flow rate from the tank switches from being limited by free convection through the manifold to being limited by porous convection through the sorbent. The disclosed systems and methods provide sorbent materials that include an interpenetrating interstitial manifold of free spaces. The modulation depth of the aplanarity is chosen to balance porous convention through the sorbent to free convention rates through the interstitial manifold resulting in maximal capacity subject to constraints on achievable flow rates.

The coupled equations for porous and free convective flow can be solved using standard finite element methods. displays a cross section of a sorbent with a gap produced by an aplanarity not shown . Gas enters the porous medium from the bottom surface at a pressure Pand flows through the sorbent a free space slot and then through the exit whose pressure Pdiffers from P. The fluid equations for free and porous transport were solved parametrically using a Comsol finite element software package Comsol Multiphysics version 4.4 www.comsol.com for P 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 and 2 Bar P 1 Bar room temperature methane gas sorbent porosity 0.5 sorbent permeability 10mand various gap dimensions. The lines define symmetry planes so that the calculation represents a cross section of two parallel blocks of sorbent each 1 cm thick and 2 cm wide separated by a gap that varies from 10 to 800 microns. Referring to the total flow through this exemplar system increases with gap size until the gap spacing exceeds about 100 microns or 1 of the edge length. The precise gap spacing corresponding to the transition from manifold dominated free convection to sorbent dominated porous convection will vary systematically with the gas composition gas pressure sorbent and manifold geometries and porous matrix properties as computed using the methods of the present disclosure.

The packing density of regular polyhedra with a gap d measured in units of the edge length r is 1 d with a smaller factor attributable to the aplanarities that mechanically enforce the gap. In the preceding example the gap where porous convection becomes rate limiting has d r 1.012 implying a packing density of 0.9644 a value that is substantially greater than is possible using spherical solids. Further increase of the gap space would continue to decrease the packing density as seen in but with no change to the maximum flow rates shown in . Referring to for each pressure drop there is a packing fraction below which the mass flow rate does not rise.

The packing density for a microlith array is controlled primarily by the edge length s of the polyhedra and the space filling polyhedral geometry. The packing density is modified slightly by the aplanarity s volume and the addressable surface is modified slightly by its surface area.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In case of conflict the present document including definitions will control. Preferred methods and materials are described below although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in practice or testing of the present invention. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The materials methods and examples disclosed herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

The terms comprise s include s having has can contain s and variants thereof as used herein are intended to be open ended transitional phrases terms or words that do not preclude the possibility of additional acts or structures. The singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The present disclosure also contemplates other embodiments comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of the embodiments or elements presented herein whether explicitly set forth or not.

The conjunctive term or includes any and all combinations of one or more listed elements associated by the conjunctive term. For example the phrase an apparatus comprising A or B may refer to an apparatus including A where B is not present an apparatus including B where A is not present or an apparatus where both A and B are present. The phrases at least one of A B . . . and N or at least one of A B . . . N or combinations thereof are defined in the broadest sense to mean one or more elements selected from the group comprising A B . . . and N that is to say any combination of one or more of the elements A B . . . or N including any one element alone or in combination with one or more of the other elements which may also include in combination additional elements not listed.

The terms first second third and the like as used herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to distinguish one element from another.

The term storage capacity as used herein means the amount of stored gas in standard liters divided by the vessel volume in liters.

The term standard liter as used herein refers to the amount of gas contained in one liter at a pressure of 1 atmosphere and a temperature of 0 C.

The term sorbent as used herein means a permeable material that weakly and reversibly binds gas whose surface area provides a storage capacity greater than one.

The term natural gas as used herein means a mixture of gases primarily comprised of methane with minor constituents including heavier hydrocarbons water carbon dioxide and trace materials such the sulfur bearing molecules used as odorants.

The term permeability as used herein means a measured relationship between the pressure gradient within a porous medium and the volumetric flow rate of a gas through the same medium.

The term viscosity as used herein means the kinematic viscosity of a gas at the temperature s and pressure s appropriate to operation of the sorption system.

The term microlith as used herein means a substantially homogeneous solid sorbent material whose shape is based on a space filling polyhedron with facial aplanarities that produce an interpenetrating interstitial manifold through which gas may flow when an ensemble of them are arrayed in a close packed configuration.

The term monolith as used herein refers to an ordered array of microliths with a manifold of interpenetrating interconnected voids.

The term ullage as used herein refers to space bounded by a pressure vessel and in direct fluid communication with solid sorbent.

The term substantially as used herein represents the inherent degree of uncertainty that may be attributed to any quantitative comparison value measurement or other representation. The term substantially is also utilized herein to represent the degree by which a quantitative representation may vary from a stated reference without resulting in a change in the basic function of the subject matter at issue.

The term source of gas as used herein may refer to for example a natural gas residential or industrial pipeline a liquified gas reservoir a tank or cylinder of compressed gas or a gas generator.

The term sorption isotherm as used herein means a measured relationship between the quantity mass or number of moles of adsorbed gas bound to a sorbent as a function of gas pressure at equilibrium and at a specified temperature.

In one aspect disclosed are systems for the storage pumping or separation of gases. The systems can include one or more sorbent monoliths one or more sorbent microliths or a combination thereof disposed in a pressure vessel or envelope. The disclosed systems can include one or more apertures configured for transfer of gas to or from the pressure vessel or envelope.

The sorbent monoliths can be comprised of a plurality of the sorbent microliths e.g. a plurality of sorbent microliths can form an ordered array to provide a sorbent monolith . The sorbent microliths can be provided as space filling polyhedra that include one or more aplanar faces. The ordered array of microliths via their facial aplanarties can create a manifold of interpenetrating interconnecting voids through which gas can flow.

The sorbent monoliths of the present disclosure can be comprised of an ordered array of sorbent microliths as described herein. The microliths can each include one or more facial aplanarities. The ordered array of microliths via their facial aplanarties can create a manifold of interpenetrating interconnecting voids through which gas can flow.

Monoliths occupy volumes that are the union of that defined by an ensemble of microliths and the interpenetrating interstitial manifolds of free spaces formed thereby. Monoliths efficiently fill volumes with complex shapes such as the toroidal pocket where a spare automotive tire is stored or the space between the exterior and interior side panels of an automobile. The dimensions of a monolith are limited only by the availability of a suitable number of microliths. The surface area to volume ratio of the monolith is defined by the geometry and edge length of the microliths and is therefore independent of the monolith s overall dimensions.

The sorbent capacity of a monolith is the product of the number and sorbent capacity of microliths plus the inherent capacity of free volume defined by the interstitial manifold.

In certain embodiments the sorbent monoliths are formed prior to or concurrent with being disposed in a pressure vessel or envelope. For example an array of microliths with facial aplanarities can be generated by stacking and then a containment vessel can be built around the stack e.g. by injection molding composite winding or mechanical assembly to produce a system according to the present disclosure. Such embodiments may employ a sacrificial material such as a polymeric film to retain the shape and integrity of the array during fabrication of the surrounding pressure vessel. This material may optionally be removed by pyrolysis dissolution chemical reaction or vacuum sublimation.

In certain embodiments the sorbent monoliths are a formed directly in the free space of a pressure vessel or envelope. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel can have an interior surface whose texture provides an internal template to facilitate self assembly of an ordered array of microliths. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel may optionally be agitated to facilitate self assembly of an ordered array of microliths including an interpenetrating manifold of interstitial spaces. In certain embodiments microliths can be admitted to a pressure vessel in a liquid whose density and viscosity are chosen to facilitate self assembly of the suspended microliths into an ordered array. Suitable liquids include but are not limited to water volatile organic fluids fluorocarbons and liquefied carbon dioxide. Once the array is formed the liquid can be drained or pumped from the pressure vessel leaving a system according to the present disclosure.

The sorbent microliths of the present disclosure can be space filling polyhedra that include one or more facial aplanarities. The microliths can be useful for the fabrication or formation of sorbent monoliths as described herein which can be used for the storage pumping or separation of gases. An array of the microliths arranged in a close packed configuration can provide an interpenetrating interstitial manifold through which gas can flow by virtue of the facial aplanarities. The packing density of the sorbent microliths defined as the fraction of available space occupied by solid material can be greater than 0.74 and preferably greater than 0.82.

The sorbent microliths can have a variety of shapes and dimensions. The microliths can be provided as regular polyhedra irregular polyhedra or a combination thereof. The disclosed systems can be based on space filling polyhedra whose edges have equal lengths. Suitable regular shaped space filling polyhedra include but are not limited to an acute golden rhombohedron a cube an elongated dodecahedron an Escher s solid a gyrobifastigium an obtuse golden rhombohedron a trigonal prism a hexagonal prism a rhombic dodecahedron a squashed dodecahedron and a truncated octahedron. The disclosed systems can also be based on space filling polyhedra whose edges have unequal lengths. These irregular space filling polyhedra have a packing density of one in the absence of the aplanaraties that provide an interpenetrating interstitial manifold according to the present disclosure. Suitable irregular shaped space filling polyhedra include but are not limited to elongated or squashed hexagonal and trigonal prisms rectangular parallelopipeds and polyhedra formed by stretching or shearing the regular space filling solids. Irregular space filling solid microliths have reduced symmetry from their regular counterparts so their assembly into a space filling array is more constrained. However auxiliary requirements based on molding or fabrication constraints structural strength heat transfer characteristics and conformability with the pressure vessel may offset the complexity of assembling an array of irregular shaped microliths.

Microliths may be prepared from suitable precursors by compression pyrolysis injection molding chemical etching or plasma processing. The creation of surfaces suitable for sorption may occur before or after forming the sorbent into an appropriate shape according to the present invention. Non limiting examples of suitable sorbent materials or precursors include organic polymers zeolites metal organic frameworks carbons and metal alloys.

Although microliths may in principal have any size the preferred edge dimensions range from about one to about one hundred millimeters. In certain embodiments a microlith may have edge lengths of 1 mm to 100 mm 1 mm to 75 mm 1 mm to 50 mm 1 mm to 25 mm 1 mm to 10 mm 10 mm to 100 mm 25 mm to 100 mm 50 mm to 100 mm 75 mm to 100 mm or 90 mm to 100 mm. In certain embodiments a microlith may have edge lengths of about 1 mm about 5 mm about 10 mm about 15 mm about 20 mm about 25 mm about 30 mm about 35 mm about 40 mm about 45 mm about 50 mm about 55 mm about 60 mm about 65 mm about 70 mm about 75 mm about 80 mm about 85 mm about 90 mm about 95 mm or about 100 mm. The surface area to volume ratio for a particular shape can thereby be tuned by a factor of about one hundred with an additional factor of about five based on the specific polyhedra chosen as the basis of the microliths.

Each sorbent microlith can independently include one or more aplanar features. Each aplanar feature can be independently selected from a convexity and a concavity. An aplanarity can be present on one or more faces of a sorbent microlith where each aplanarity can be the same or different e.g. an aplanarity of the same or different convex or concave shape . In certain embodiments each face of a sorbent microlith includes at least one aplanarity. In certain embodiments surface aplanarities can have the same symmetry as the underlying space filling polyhedron. For example as depicted in a truncated octahedron can include hexagonal aplanarities on hexagonal faces and square aplanarities on square faces. The aplanar features when the microliths are arranged in a close packed array can create a manifold of free volume.

Suitable aplanarities include convexities concavities and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the aplanarity is a set of convexities oriented along the symmetry axes of the polyhedral faces or vertices. Non limiting examples of convexities are hemispheres disks polyhedral prisms spherical caps cylinders and arrays thereof. The convex features can prevent intimate contact of opposing polyhedral faces and thereby allow gas to contact the polyhedral surfaces preferably substantially all of the polyhedral surfaces. In certain embodiments the aplanarity is a set of concavities oriented along the symmetry axes of the polyhedral faces or vertices. Non limiting examples of concavities are rectangular circular semicircular or polyhedral channels spherical caps inverted dimples spherical concavities whose radius of curvature is between 0.1 and 10 times the edge length and corrugations whose wavelength is less than about twice the edge length. The concave features can prevent intimate contact of opposing polyhedral faces and thereby allow gas to contact the polyhedral surfaces preferably substantially all of the polyhedral surfaces.

The sorbent microliths can be made from a variety of materials. In certain embodiments each sorbent microlith can independently include one or more materials each material independently selected from one or more of zeolites porous glass porous carbon metal organic framework materials porous polymers and clay. Suitable sorbent materials for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to activated carbon graphite activated alumina molecular sieves aluminophosphate materials silicoaluminophosphate materials zeolites faujasite clinoptilolite mordenite metal exchanged silico aluminophosphate uni polar resins bi polar resins aromatic cross linked polystyrenic matrices brominated aromatic matrices acrylic polymers acrylic copolymers methacrylic polymers methacrylic copolymers hydroxyalkyl acrylates hydroxyalkyl methacrylates adsorbent carbonaceous materials adsorbent graphitic materials carbon fiber materials nanotubes nano materials adsorbent metal salts such as perchlorate and oxalate alkaline earth metal metallic particles ion exchange resins linear polymers of glucose polyacrylamides or a combination thereof The zeolite may be an ion exchanged metal zeolite hydrophilic zeolite hydrophobic zeolite modified zeolites metal ion exchanged zeolite natural X type zeolite modified X type zeolite A type zeolite mordenite type zeolite chabazite type zeolite ion exchange resin bioselective sorbent or a combination thereof.

The sorbent material may include one or more support materials. Suitable supports include but are not limited to natural clay calcined clay modified clay chemically treated clay chemically modified clay smectite clay kaolin clay sub bentonite clay kaolin halloysite clay kaolin kaolonite clay kaolin nacrite clay kaolin anauxite clay binary matrix material tertiary matrix material silica thoria silica alumina silica alumina thoria silica alumina zirconia fibrous material colloidal silica material colloidal alumina material colloidal zirconia material colloidal mixture surface modified amorphous silicon dioxide nanoparticles hydrated magnesium aluminum silicate thermoplastic polymer thermosetting polymer ferrous support non ferrous support electrically conductive support dielectric support electromagnetic receptor or a combination thereof. The support may be applied by sintering pyrolysis slurrying vapor deposition casting electro spraying electrophoretic deposition extrusion laser deposition electron beam deposition silk screening photo lithography deposition electrostatic self assembly high aspect ratio micromachining LIGA formation atomic layer deposition casting stamping or a combination thereof.

The sorbent microliths can be fabricated by a variety of methods. In certain embodiments microliths can be formed by compression molding of sorbent material into space filling polyhedra with aplanarities. The molded material may optionally be further processed by pyrolysis or chemical reaction to enhance sorbent porosity permeability mechanical strength thermal conductivity or other properties as long as the shape and symmetry of the initially molded microliths are retained.

In certain embodiments the sorbent microliths can be manufactured in a pellet press using tooling configured to produce space filling polyhedral shapes with aplanarities on one or more polyhedral faces. In certain embodiments the sorbent pellets may be pyrolyzed activated or otherwise chemically processed to enhance their storage capacity adsorption enthalpy permeability or porosity while maintaining the geometric shape of a space filling polyhedron with surface aplanarities.

In certain embodiments the sorbent pellets may have diameters chosen to first pass through the throat or flange of a pressure vessel. The pellets can be configured to self assemble into an array. For example the pellets can be configured to self assemble when agitated into a regular ordered solid array with prescribed solid and free space configurations the pellets can be configured to self assemble when in contact with a template e.g. a template provided on an inner surface a pressure vessel or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the sorbent pellets are introduced into a pressure vessel suspended in a liquid whose viscosity and flow profile are chosen to facilitate creation of a regular ordered solid array. The fluid is then slowly pumped or drained from the vessel to yield a tank with prescribed internal solid and free space configurations.

In certain embodiments microliths are formed with diameters that are less than the diameter of the aperture through which gas enters and exits the system. These microliths can be added to a pressure vessel constructed by injection molding machining welded assembly composite fiber winding or other methods. The pressure vessel may optionally be agitated to facilitate self assembly of an ordered array of microliths with an interpenetrating manifold of interstitial spaces.

Referring to there are eleven regular space filling polyhedra that completely fill a three dimensional volume. These regular polyhedra have edge lengths r that are all the same in the respective polyhedra. Referring to Tables I and II these polyhedra have surface areas and volumes that are proportional to the edge length r squared or cubed respectively. The surface area to volume ratios S V are therefore proportional to 1 r . These polyhedra fit together perfectly so a monolith formed from more than one polyhedron can adsorb or desorb gas only through its exterior surface. In other words an ordered array of space filling polyhedral elements would have the same flow characteristics as a monolithic block of the same volume. Introducing an aplanar feature on each polyhedral face as shown in produces gaps between the otherwise closely packed faces thereby exposing each face to a manifold of interconnected interstitial volume elements through which gas can be conveyed into and out of the sorbent. A space filling polyhedral sorbent capsule with surface aplanarities is defined herein as a microlith. Referring to a cutaway view of the manifold produced by convexities on the faces of regular truncated octahedral microliths is shown.

Space filling polyhedra with non equal edge lengths and surface aplanarities may also be used as microliths according to the present disclosure. The reduced symmetry of these irregular space filling polyhedra may complicate fabrication of a close packed array. However irregular shapes may be advantageous in terms of their manufacture heat transfer or mechanical properties that offset this complexity.

An example of a microlith according to the present disclosure is shown in . The regular truncated octahedron has fourteen faces eight hexagons and six squares displayed as a connected net graph. At the center of each face and retaining the octahedral symmetry of the polyhedron protuberances in the form of small spherical caps impede full contact of the faces in a close packed array of microliths. This configuration generates an internal manifold of gaps that provides fluid access to the opposing faces. Referring to four truncated octahedra in an ordered array are shown in a cutaway view from a larger array to indicate the interstitial manifold that is produced by the aplanarity not shown of the polyhedral faces. In certain embodiments the convex protuberances may be in the form of spherical caps cylinders polyhedral prisms or arrays thereof that prevent intimate contact of opposing polyhedral faces and thereby allow gas to contact substantially all of the polyhedral surfaces. In certain embodiments the aplanarities that prevent intimate contact are concave features that allow gas contact to substantially all of the polyhedral surfaces. Non limiting examples of concave features include rectangular circular or polyhedral channels spherical concavities whose radius of curvature is between 0.1 and 10 times the edge length and corrugations whose wavelength is less than about twice the edge length.

In certain embodiments surface aplanarities have the same symmetry as the underlying space filling polyhedron. Referring to one example of symmetrically disposed convex features is hexagonal prisms centered on the hexagonal faces and square prisms centered on the square faces of the truncated octahedron. All of the symmetry planes and axes of the polyhedron are retained following addition of the aplanarities that generate packing gaps. Another example of symmetrically disposed aplanarities cylindrical convexities with circular faces centered on the hexagonal and rhombohedral faces of an elongated dodecahedron is shown in . Yet another example shown in entails spherical balls appended at each vertex of a gyrobifastigium whose radius is one half of the required gap.

Suitable pressure vessels or envelopes for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to metallic polymeric or composite barriers and vessels. The vessels and evelopes may have a shape designed to accommodate space constraints in a vehicle generator or other system requiring compressed gas for its operation. Metallic tanks may be fabricated from aluminum steel titanium or other alloys. Polymeric tanks may be fabricated by for example reaction injection molding of poly dicyclopentadiene. Examples of composite tanks can be fabricated from epoxy and carbon or glass fibers. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is formed from an epoxy impregnated carbon fiber blanket preferably including a fitting that allows independent introduction of a gas. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is an aluminum or titanium vessel. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is formed with polydicyclopentadiene by reaction injection molding and a ring opening metathesis polymerization.

In certain embodiments the pressure vessel has an interior surface whose texture provides an internal template to facilitate self assembly of the ordered array of microliths. For example an interior surface comprised of square pyramids whose edge length equals that of a cubic microlith.

The disclosed systems include one or more apertures through which gas may enter at elevated pressures or exit at reduced pressure a pressure vessel or envelope. Suitable aperture types for use in the disclosed systems include but not limited to ports flanges or tubes in fluid communication with the interstitial manifold of free spaces.

The disclosed systems can include one or more valves connected to the apertures through which gas may enter at elevated pressures or exit at reduced pressure the pressure vessel or envelope. Suitable valve s for use in the disclosed systems include but not limited to bonnet valves gate valves check valves Tesla valves and diode valves any which may be operated manually or through electromechanical solenoidal pneumatic or hydraulic mechanisms.

Suitable gases for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to hydrocarbon gases e.g. natural gas methane hydrogen dichlorosilane hydrogen chloride sulfur dioxide and industrial gases that decompose above room temperature. Examples of thermally unstable gases that may used in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to NH Cl SiHCl HBr NO and SO. In certain embodiments the gas is a combustible material containing one or more hydrogen atoms. In certain embodiments the gas is a mixture whose components have different affinities for the sorbent to facilitate separation of the mixture. In certain embodiments the gas has an enthalpy of adsorption sufficient for the material to serve as a refrigerant.

In another aspect disclosed are methods of storing pumping or purifying one or more gases. The methods can employ a system as disclosed herein. Gases sorbent materials and system requirements for flow rates into and out of the sorbent material can be selected based on desired flow and storage parameters. Flows through the manifold and solid sorbent can be calculated as a function of the polyhedral edge lengths and the shape and dimensions of the aplanarities using finite element calculations familiar to those practiced in the art of computational fluid dynamics. For any combination of polyhedron and aplanarity the flow rate through the manifold increases with the aplanarity dimensions and manifold volume until porous convective flow into the manifold from the sorbent is matched by free convective flow through the manifold to the aperture s of the system. This dimension identifies the optimum condition for the system since further increase of the manifold volume reduces the packing density without changing the flow rate of gas into or out of the system.

For reasons of completeness various aspects of the disclosure are set out in the following numbered clauses 

Clause 1. A space filling polyhedral shaped sorbent microlith comprising one or more aplanarities on one or more polygonal faces.

Clause 2. The sorbent microlith of clause 1 wherein the sorbent microlith comprises one or more of zeolites porous glass porous carbon metal organic framework materials microporous polymers and clay.

Clause 3. The sorbent microlith of clause 1 or clause 2 wherein the sorbent microlith has the shape of a regular polyhedron.

Clause 4. The sorbent microlith of clause 3 wherein the sorbent microlith has the shape of an acute golden rhombohedron a cube an elongated dodecahedron an Escher s solid a gyrobifastigium an obtuse golden rhombohedron a trigonal prism a hexagonal prism a rhombic dodecahedron a squashed dodecahedron or a truncated octahedron.

Clause 5. The sorbent microlith of any one of clauses 1 3 wherein the sorbent microlith has the shape of an irregular polyhedron.

Clause 6. The sorbent microlith of clause 5 wherein the sorbent microlith has the shape of an elongated or squashed hexagonal or trigonal prism a rectangular parallelopiped or a polyhedra formed by stretching or shearing a regular space filling polyhedron.

Clause 8. The sorbent microlith of clause 7 wherein the convexities are hemispheres disks polyhedral prisms or spherical caps.

Clause 10. The sorbent microlith of clause 9 wherein the concavities are rectangular semicircular or polygonal channels spherical caps or inverted dimples.

Clause 11. The sorbent microlith of any one of clauses 1 10 wherein the edge length of the microlith ranges from 1 to 100 millimeters.

Clause 12. An array of space filling polyhedral shaped sorbent microliths wherein at least one of the microliths comprises one or more aplanarities on one or more polygonal faces.

Clause 13. The array of clause 12 wherein the array comprises an interpenetrating interstitial manifold of free space e.g. through which gas may flow .

Clause 14. The array of clause 12 or clause 13 wherein the sorbent microliths comprise one or more of zeolites porous glass porous carbon metal organic framework materials microporous polymers and clay.

Clause 15. The array of any one of clauses 12 14 wherein the sorbent microliths have the shape of a regular polyhedron.

Clause 16. The array of clause 15 wherein the sorbent microliths have the shape of an acute golden rhombohedron a cube an elongated dodecahedron an Escher s solid a gyrobifastigium an obtuse golden rhombohedron a trigonal prism a hexagonal prism a rhombic dodecahedron a squashed dodecahedron or a truncated octahedron.

Clause 17. The array of any one of clauses 12 14 wherein the sorbent microliths have the shape of an irregular polyhedron.

Clause 18. The array of clause 17 wherein the sorbent microliths have the shape of an elongated or squashed hexagonal or trigonal prism a rectangular parallelopiped or a polyhedra formed by stretching or shearing a regular space filling polyhedron.

Clause 20. The array of clause 19 wherein the convexities are hemispheres disks polyhedral prisms or spherical caps.

Clause 22. The array of clause 21 wherein the concavities are rectangular semicircular or polygonal channels spherical caps or inverted dimples.

Clause 23. The array of any one of clauses 12 22 wherein the edge length of the sorbent microliths ranges from one to one hundred millimeters.

Clause 24. A system for storing pumping or purifying a gas comprising a sorbent microlith according to any one of clauses 1 11 or an array according to any one of clauses 12 23 a vessel one or more apertures through which gas may enter or exit the vessel and one or more valves connected to the apertures e.g. through which gas may enter at elevated pressures or exit at reduced pressure the vessel .

Clause 25. The system of clause 24 wherein the diameter of the sorbent microliths is smaller than one aperture e.g. so that sorbent can be added to a pre fabricated pressure vessel and jostled to produce an ordered array .

Clause 27. The system of any one of clauses 24 26 wherein the gas is a mixture of more than one molecular component that have different sorption properties on the sorbent e.g. allowing separation of the mixture s components .

Clause 28. The system of clause 24 or clause 25 wherein the gas has a non zero enthalpy of adsorption on the sorbent e.g. that allows the system to act as a heat pump when the gas is added to or removed from the sorbent .

Clause 29. The system of clause 24 or clause 25 wherein the gas is a refrigerant characterized by a non zero enthalpy of adsorption e.g. so that heat transfer rates and capacities are proportional to the flow rates and packing densities provided according to the method .

Clause 30. The system of any one of clauses 24 29 wherein the vessel is a pressure vessel or envelope.

Clause 31. The system of any one of clauses 24 30 wherein the vessel has an interior template to facilitate self assembly of the array from the sorbent microliths.

Clause 32. A method for storing pumping or purifying a gas comprising transferring a gas to or from a vessel comprising a sorbent microlith according to any one of clauses 1 11 or an array according to any one of clauses 12 23 or the vessel of a system according to any one of clauses 24 31.

Clause 33. A method of manufacturing a system according to any one of clauses 24 31 the method comprising 1 placing the sorbent microliths through the aperture of the vessel and 2 agitating the vessel to induce self assembly of the microliths into a close packed array with an interpenetrating interstitial manifold of free space.

Clause 34. A method of manufacturing a system according to any one of clauses 24 31 the method comprising 1 arranging sorbent microliths into a close packed array with an interpenetrating interstitial manifold of free space and 2 forming the vessel with one or more apertures around said array.

Clause 35. The method of clause 33 or clause 34 wherein the vessel is fabricated from one or more of metal injection molded polymer or epoxy fiber composite winding.

Clause 36. The method of clause 33 wherein the sorbent microliths are suspended in a fluid whose viscosity and density facilitate orientation and self assembly of the close packed array.

Clause 37. The method of clause 34 wherein the sorbent microliths are wrapped in an optionally sacrificial polymeric film that permits subsequent injection molding or forming steps to occur without infiltration of the interstitial manifold.

Clause 38. The method of clause 37 wherein the wrapping material is sacrificial and may be removed by chemical reaction pyrolysis sublimation or the like following fabrication of the pressure vessel.

Clause 39. The sorbent microlith of any one of clauses 1 11 the array of any one of clauses 12 23 the system of any one of clauses 24 31 or a method of any one of clauses 32 38 where the modulation depth of the aplanarity is chosen to balance porous convection rates through the sorbent material to free convection rates through the interstitial manifold resulting in maximal capacity subject to constraints on achievable flow rates.

While the present invention is described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments and is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the claims. Modifications and variations in the present invention may be made without departing from the novel aspects of the invention as defined in the claims. The appended claims should be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the spirit and the scope of the invention herein.

