---

title: Rotating cylindrical and spherical triboelectric generators
abstract: A generator includes a first member, a second member and a sliding mechanism. The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode. The first dielectric layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The sliding mechanism is configured to cause relative movement between the first member and the second member, thereby generating an electric potential imbalance between the first electrode and the second electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571009&OS=09571009&RS=09571009
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09571009
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140618
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 836 454 filed Jun. 18 2013 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application is also a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 189 656 filed Feb. 25 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 771 371 filed Mar. 1 2013 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy and under agreement No. CMMI 0946418 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to generators and more specifically to a system for generating voltage and current using the triboelectric effect.

Energy harvesting by converting ambient energy into electricity may offset the reliance of small portable electronics on traditional power supplies such as batteries. When long term operation of a large number of electronic devices in dispersed locations is required energy harvesting has the advantages of outstanding longevity relatively little maintenance minimal disposal and contamination.

When two materials at least one of which is non conducting come into contact with each other a chemical bond known as adhesion is formed between the two materials. Depending on the triboelectric properties of the materials one material may capture some of the electrons from the other material. If the two materials are separated from each other a charge imbalance will occur. The material that captured the electron will negatively charged and the material that lost an electron will be positively charged. This charge imbalance gives rise to what is sometimes referred to as static electricity. The term static in this case is somewhat deceptive as it implies a lack of motion when in reality motion is necessary for charge imbalances to flow. The spark one feels upon touching a door knob is an example of such flow.

The triboelectric effect is a type of contact electrification in which certain materials become electrically charged after they come into contact with another such as through friction. It is the mechanism though which static electricity is generated. The triboelectric effects associated electrostatic phenomena are the most common electrical phenomena in daily life from walking to driving. However the triboelectric effect has been largely ignored as an energy source for electricity. Some electrostatic micro generators have been developed and used in research relating to micro electro mechanical systems MEMS but such designs rely on an extra voltage source to charge electrode plates instead of harnessing triboelectric effect leading to complicated structures and fabrication processes.

Previously demonstrated triboelectric generators require periodic contact and vertical separation of two materials that have opposite triboelectric polarities making it only applicable to harvest energy from intermittent impact or shock. Such systems typically include a cavity with a constantly changing volume which makes packaging difficult and limits applications in atmospheres with high humidity corrosive chemicals or gases and in water or other liquids.

Therefore there is a need for a reliable small and easily manufactured system for harvesting triboelectric energy.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a generator that includes a first member a second member and a sliding mechanism. The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode. The first dielectric layer includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The sliding mechanism is configured to move the first member laterally against the second member in a first direction thereby generating an electric potential imbalance between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In another aspect the invention is a method of generating electricity in which a first member is placed against a second member. The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode the first dielectric layer including a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member also includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The first member is slid laterally against the second member along a first direction so that when at least a portion of the first member has slid apart from at least a portion of the second member an electric potential imbalance occurs between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In another aspect the invention is a generator that includes a substantially cylindrical first member which includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer affixed to the first electrode the first dielectric layer including a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series the first dielectric layer including a first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs disposed along a second direction that is transverse to the first direction. A substantially cylindrical second member is disposed inside of the first member. The second member includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating. The second member includes a second electrode. The second member is disposed adjacent to the first dielectric layer so that the first dielectric layer is disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. The second member includes a second grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs disposed along the second direction. A sliding mechanism configured to cause relative motion between the first member against the second member thereby generating an electric potential imbalance between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In another aspect the invention is a generator that includes a cylinder having a top end and an opposite bottom end. A top cap member caps the top end of the cylinder and includes a first electrode layer and a first triboelectric material layer disposed under the first electrode layer. The first triboelectric material layer has a first rating on a triboelectric series. A bottom cap member caps the bottom end of the cylinder and includes a second electrode layer and a second triboelectric material layer disposed above the second electrode layer. The second triboelectric material layer has a second rating on the triboelectric series. A piston is slidably disposed within the cylinder. The piston includes a cylindrical body portion having a top surface and an opposite bottom surface a third electrode layer disposed on the top surface a third triboelectric material layer disposed on the third electrode layer the third triboelectric material layer having a third rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating on the triboelectric series a fourth electrode layer disposed on the bottom surface and a fourth triboelectric material layer disposed below the fourth electrode layer the fourth triboelectric material layer having a fourth rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the second rating on the triboelectric series.

In another aspect the invention is a generator that includes a first reference surface. A second reference surface is spaced apart at a fixed distance from the first reference surface. A spring has a first end and an opposite second end. The first end is affixed to the reference surface and the spring depends downwardly therefrom. An inertial member is affixed to the second end of the spring and has a bottom surface. A first triboelectric member is affixed to the bottom surface of the inertial member and includes a material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series and a conductive layer. A second triboelectric member is disposed below the first triboelectric member and is affixed to the second reference surface. The second triboelectric member includes a material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series. The second rating is different from the first rating. The second triboelectric member also includes a conductive layer. A dielectric layer is disposed on a selected one of the first triboelectric member and the second triboelectric member. The dielectric layer is configured to electrically isolate the conductive layer of the first triboelectric member from the conductive layer of the second triboelectric member.

In yet another aspect the invention is a generator that includes a waterproof shell having an inside surface. A conductive inner surface is affixed to the inside surface of the shell. A first triboelectric layer is affixed to the conductive inner surface and includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. A conductive three dimensional object has dimensions configured to fit inside of the shell. A second triboelectric layer is affixed to the three dimensional object and includes a second material that has a second rating on the triboelectric series in which the second rating different from the first rating. A first conductor is electrically coupled to the conductive inner surface and extends to outside of the shell. A second conductor is electrically coupled to the three dimensional object and extends to outside of the shell. A member is configured to suspend the three dimensional object within the shell and to allow the three dimensional object to move freely from a plurality of positions in which the second triboelectric layer is in contact with the first triboelectric layer to a plurality of positions in which the second triboelectric layer is not in contact with the first triboelectric layer.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

Related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 132 filed on Aug. 29 2012 by Wang et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 032 864 filed on Sep. 20 2013 by Wang et al. disclose methods of making triboelectric generators and components thereof and are both incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of disclosing such methods.

The present invention includes a triboelectric nanogenerator TENG that converts small scale mechanical energy into electricity by sliding two surfaces laterally against each other. The principle of the TENG is based on sliding electrification between two surfaces which expands the applicability of the TENG for diverse forms of mechanical motions.

As shown in a basic sliding embodiment of a TENG includes a first member disposed oppositely from a second member . The first member includes a first electrode and a first dielectric layer coupled thereto. The second member can serve as both a contact surface and an electrode. In one embodiment the second member can simply include a layer of aluminum or other conductive material that is at a different position on a triboelectric series that the first dielectric layer the first dielectric layer can include a PTFE film and the first electrode can include a metal such as copper. The first electrode may be coupled to the second electrode through a load . While not shown in for the sake of simplicity both the first member and the second member may each be mounted on a suitable substrate such as an acrylic plate. The first member and the second member do not have to be planar. They can be curved surfaces as long as they are parallel and have conformal contact with each other.

When the first dielectric layer is placed against the second member as shown in the triboelectric effect causes electrons to be transferred from the second member to the first dielectric layer thereby causing a net negative charge in the first dielectric layer and a net positive charge in the second member . As the first member is in contact with the second member over their entire surfaces the charges are balanced out. However when a lateral force is applied to the second member causing it to slide away from the first member as shown in then the extra electrons in the first dielectric layer stay in place due to the charge immobility associated with a dielectric while positive charges in the second member move away from the first dielectric layer causing a potential imbalance between the first member and the second member . This then causes electrons to flow from the first electrode through the load to the second member . When the second member is slid at its maximum offset from the first member as shown in all of the negative charges held by the first dielectric layer are balanced with corresponding positive charges in the first electrode while the second member is electrically neutral.

When the second member is slid back over the first member as shown in electrons flow back from the first electrode through the load into the second member thereby more closely balancing the charges with the first dielectric layer . This causes a current to flow through the load in an opposite direction from the direction it flowed during the motion shown in . Once the second member returns to the position shown in the charges are again balanced between the first dielectric layer and the second member . The same would hold true if the first member is slid over the second member or if both members are in motion so that there is relative sliding motion between the two members. 

The cycle shown in can repeat itself thereby generating an alternating current if the TENG is adapted with a sliding mechanism to receive force from a reciprocating motion source. The force can be directly applied or it can be an inertial force due to acceleration. For example the reciprocating motion source could be the repetitive footfalls of a person walking or wave motion or motion coming from a biological system such as a heartbeat or gusting wind or one of many other types of repetitive motion.

One experimental embodiment of a TENG has a structure in which two contacting surfaces that can slide smoothly with one against the other. Acrylic was selected as a substrate material due to its decent strength light weight and good machinability. On one substrate aluminum thin film plays dual roles of an electrode and a sliding surface. On the other substrate copper electrode is sandwiched between the substrate and a PTFE film. The PTFE film acts as another sliding surface. At its original position the two sliding surfaces are fully aligned with one sitting freely on the other. Driven by a tangential force applied to a substrate relative displacement in contact mode occurs in lateral direction. After the two surfaces are fully displaced the reciprocating force retraces them back to the aligned position.

The principle of the TENG is explained by the coupling between triboelectric effect and electrostatic effect. Once the PTFE film is brought into contact with the aluminum thin film surface charge transfer takes place due to the triboelectric effect or contact electrification. Since PTFE is much more triboelectrically negative than aluminum electrons are injected from aluminum into PTFE. At the aligned position though triboelectric charges present on the surfaces positive ones on aluminum are fully compensated by the negative ones on PTFE producing no electric field in the surrounding space if the electric field at the edge is ignored. Once a relative displacement is introduced by an externally applied force in the direction parallel to the surfaces triboelectric charges are not compensated at the displaced mismatched areas resulting in the creation of an effective dipole polarization parallel to the direction of the displacement. Therefore the uncompensated charges generate electric potential difference EDP across the two electrodes. If the electric potential of the copper electrode is set to be zero the EDP can be analytically expressed as a function of the displacement under simplified approximations.

If the two electrodes are electrically connected once displacement is established the uncompensated negative triboelectric charges on PTFE will repulsively drive free electrons on the copper electrode to the aluminum electrode neutralizing the positive triboelectric charges and leaving behind positive induced charges. The flow of induced electrons lasts until the displacement reaches the maximum. Based on assumptions made in the analytical model the induced charges equal the triboelectric charges in quantity. Therefore at fully displaced position the positive triboelectric charges are completely balanced out by induced electrons indicating no more current flow. As the displacement is diminished by the reciprocating force the induced electrons flow back to the copper electrode until the fully aligned position is restored. Therefore in the entire process alternating current AC is produced through the external load.

To characterize the performance of an TENG with a plate size of 6.4 cm by 3.8 cm the short circuit current I and open circuit voltage V were measured at an average sliding velocity of 0.6 m s introduced by a linear motor. It was found that the Iexhibits peaks of alternating directions. Increasing displacement gives a positive current peak while shrinking displacement leads to a negative one. No electric current is produced at either aligned or entirely displaced position. The Vswitches between zero and a maximum value which corresponds to the aligned and fully displaced positions respectively. Enabled by a full wave diode bridge the AC electric output can be rectified to a DC signal. With a diode bridge the total accumulative induced charges independent of sliding direction can be added up. In this embodiment every step represents an output current resulting from a one way sliding motion generating 0.6 C of induced charges on average. Correspondingly the area density of the triboelectric charges is calculated to be 257 C m.

In an experimental embodiment of such a dielectric dielectric system the sliding triboelectric nanogenerator includes two plates 71 mm 50 mm with glass slides as the supporting substrates to ensure the surface flatness. Polyamide 6 6 Nylon and polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE films the two polymers at the opposite ends of the triboelectric series are chosen as the triboelectric layers adhered on surfaces of the glass slides for effective electrification during sliding. On each polymer film a layer of metal electrode was deposited on the side next to the glass slide named as top electrode for the one on Nylon and bottom electrode for the one on PTFE . The two plates are kept in parallel to each other and the polymeric surfaces are in intimate contact. As driven by the mechanical motion vibration along the long edge of the plate the two plates slide against each other with the contact area changing periodically. In order to enhance the triboelectric charge density on the surface the PTFE film was dry etched using inductive coupled plasma ICP to create aligned nanowire structures which increase the surface roughness and the effective surface area. The PTFE surface is uniformly covered with nanowire structures with an average length of 1.5 m. The PTFE covered plate was bonded to a stationary stage while the Nylon side was fastened to a parallel flat end rail guide which was connected to a linear motor for inducing an in plane sliding motion.

In this embodiment the triboelectrification will leave the Nylon surface with net positive charges and the PTFE with net negative charges with equal density. Since the tribo charges on the insulators will only distribute in the surface layer and will not be leaked out for an extended period of time the separation between the positively charged surface and negatively charged surface is negligible at this overlapping position and thus there will be little electric potential drop across the two electrodes. Once the top plate with the positively charged surface starts to slide outward the in plane charge separation is initiated due to the decrease in contact surface area. The separated charges will generate an electric field pointing from the right to the left almost parallel to the plates inducing a higher potential at the top electrode. This potential difference will drive a current flow from the top electrode to the bottom electrode in order to generate an electric potential drop that cancels the tribo charge induced potential. Because the vertical distance between the electrode layer and the tribo charged polymeric surface is negligible compared to the lateral charge separation distance the amount of the transferred charges on the electrodes approximately equals the amount of the separated charges at any sliding displacement. Thus the current flow will continue with the continuation of the on going sliding process that keeps increasing the separated charges until the top plate fully slides out of the bottom plate and the tribo charged surfaces are entirely separated.

Subsequently when the top plate is reverted to slide backwards the separated charges begin to get in contact again but no annihilation due to the insulator nature of the polymer materials. The redundant transferred charges on the electrodes will flow back through the external load with the increase of the contact area in order to keep the electrostatic equilibrium. This will contribute to a current flow from the bottom electrode to the top electrode along with the second half cycle of sliding. Once the two plates reach the overlapping position the charged surfaces get into fully contact again. There will be no transferred charges left on the electrode and the device returns to the initial state in. In this entire cycle the processes of sliding outwards and inwards are symmetric so a pair of symmetric alternating current peaks should be expected.

The model constructed here has the same structure and dimensions 71 mm 50 mm in surface with the real device and those two tribo charged surfaces are assigned with a charge density of 70 C m respectively. The device is in open circuit condition which means no electron transfer between the two electrodes. When the two plates are in the fully aligned stacking position there is no potential difference generated. When the top plate slides about half way out with a displacement of 41 mm there will be a 2950 V potential difference between the two electrodes and this potential difference will increase to 1.03 10V when the top plate just slides out of touching the bottom plate with a displacement of 71 mm . The voltage keeps increasing when the displacement gets larger even after the plates slide out of each other. This is because the voltage is the path integral of the electric field along the displacement. On the other hand the amounts of transferred charges between the two electrodes under these different displacements are also simulated through equating the potential of the electrodes at the short circuit condition. The amount of transferred charges increases linearly with the displacement before the top plate slides out of the bottom plate with the displacement smaller than 71 mm . Different from the trend of the voltage the amount of transferred charges will saturate at the total amount of tribo charges on one surface after the plates have fully slid out of each other because there is no further charge separation here. So the effective displacement region for generating electricity is between 0 mm and 71 mm where the contact area of the two plates is changed during the relative sliding of the two plates.

The electrical output of the sliding TENG was measured with one plate guided by the linear motor in the direction parallel to the long edge of the plates. The sliding displacement was 71 mm which was the same with the length of the plate and thus covered the entire effective region for generating electricity. The sliding movement was in a symmetric acceleration deceleration mode with the acceleration rate of 20 m s. The open circuit voltage V was measured by an electrometer with very large input resistance. The electrode at the back of Nylon film was connected to the positive probe. When the plates in the TENG slid from the contact position to the separated position the Vjumped from 0 to 1300 V which reflects the induced potential difference between the two electrodes by the in plane charge separation. At the separation position the Vdecayed a little bit due to the slow charge leakage through the electrometer. When the TENG slid back to the contact position the Vjumped back to 0. The density of the transferred charge was also measured at the short circuit condition. Charges with a density of 105 C mtransferred back and forth between the two electrodes while the plates slid in and out. Since the plates got fully separated in each cycle the transferred charge density should approximately equal to the triboelectric charge density on the polymeric surfaces. With these experimental results the measured Vis smaller than the simulated potential difference which is possibly due to the limitation of the electrical measurement system to record such a high voltage and the imperfection from the ideal open circuit condition. The transfer of the charges between the electrodes in the outer circuits produced an alternating current output with the peak short circuit current density J of 4.1 mA mat a maximum sliding velocity of 1.2 m s. In this experimental embodiment with such a power output converted from the sliding motion hundreds of commercial light emitting diodes LEDs were instantaneously driven by a single TENG device.

The TENG s effective output power to the loads depends on the match with the resistance of the load. When the resistance is below 1 M the output current density and the voltage have little changes from the short circuit condition the current density remains at a value of Jwhile the voltage stays close to 0. This is because the TENG has infinitely large inner resistance. When the resistance goes beyond 1 M the current density will drop with the increase of the resistance while the voltage on the load increases. Consequently the instantaneous power density on the load remains close to 0 with the resistance below 1 M and reaches the maximum value of 0.42 W mat a resistance of 50 M . This is the maximum output power density on the device.

The output of the planar sliding driven TENG is directly determined by the parameters of the sliding motion the displacement and the velocity because the flow of electricity originates from the tribo charge separation under sliding. As simulated before the two plates fully slide out of each other with a displacement smaller than 71 mm the voltage increases monotonically with the displacement. Also if there is a uniform tribo charge distribution on the polymeric surface the total amount of transferred charges will have a linear relationship with the displacement which can be expressed in charge density as 

A systematic study of these relationships between the electrical outputs Vand J and the sliding conditions was carried out experimentally. In the first group of experiments the electrical outputs were measured under a series of 7 different sliding displacements from 11 mm to 71 mm with an acceleration kept at 20 m s. It was found that the Vincreases with the displacement which is in accordance with simulation results. The measured transferred charge density displays a linear relationship with the displacement which can be linearly fitted with the correlation coefficient of 0.981. As for the peak value of Jwhich is in proportional to the maximum velocity v it also has a positive correlation with the displacement. This is because vhas such a relationship with the displacement 5 where a is the acceleration and L is the total displacement the displacement for each acceleration and deceleration process is L 2 respectively .

When the sliding displacement remains at a constant value of 71 mm the maximum velocity of the sliding is solely determined by the acceleration. Thus the acceleration was varied to investigate the velocity s influence on the output. It was found that Vhas very little increase with the rising acceleration which is also consistent with the theoretical expectation that Vis only determined by the displacement. However the changing rate of the voltage will depend on the sliding velocity. The higher the velocity the faster the voltage increases decreases in sliding. As for the output current the peak value of Jgets larger at higher acceleration because of the larger maximum velocity in sliding. However the sliding velocity has no influence on the transferred charge density under the constant displacement.

Because the essence in the working mechanism of the sliding TENG is the cycled switching between the separation and full contact of the opposite tribo charges there should be little electricity generated in the following two cases 1 If the sliding motion does not result in the change of the contact area between two plates for example if a smaller plate slides inside the perimeter of a larger plate at all time then little output can be measured. This is because there is no polarization generated in this case. 2 If the two plates do not fully in tight contact with each other at the overlapping position there is always a vertical gap distance between them which results in two cases the first is that little triboelectric charges are generated the second case is that if there are triboelectric charges on the plates the gap between them in the vertical direction quickly decays the strength of electrostatic interaction resulting in a reduced output. When the vertical distance between the two plates of the TENG is gradually increased from 0 to 2 mm the output voltage current and transferred charges all quickly decay to zero.

The planar sliding mode TENG disclosed herein has several advantages including 1 This TENG design does not need a gap between the two plates. Thus it will be unnecessary to have elastic supporting components such as springs between the two plates to ensure the effective charge separation. This brings up a lot of convenience in packaging the TENG device 2 there is no need for a large amount of mechanical energy input to trigger this TENG design which can help to improve the energy harvesting efficiency. The mechanical energy only needs to overcome the work done by the sliding friction between the two plates. 3 This TENG design is simple in structure easy in fabrication compact in volume stable in performance cost effective and robust. With these advantages such in plane charge separation based TENGs can harvest mechanical energies in the form of relative sliding that are supplied by many different working configurations for example the relative rotation of two contacting plates the vibration of the piston the rotation of the axis to its tube and so on. Besides those types of mechanical energy that can drive the relative sliding between two objects can also be harvested using this principle of in plane charge separation based TENG which can greatly expand the application of this type of TENG to scavenge mechanical energy from wind power oceanic wave human activities and so on.

As shown in the first dielectric layer can include a first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs . Similarly the second member can include a second grating first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs . As can be seen in while the overall surface contact area density of this embodiment is essentially one half that of the embodiment shown in the total sliding distance necessary for maximum charge transfer is limited to the width of a single ridge. Thus depending on the width of the ridges which can be microscale using lithographic techniques this embodiment can generate its maximum current with an extremely small scale source of reciprocal motion such as vibrations . These embodiments can be made using well known thin film application processes for applying layers to the substrates and standard lithographic techniques for etching the troughs.

As shown in one embodiment includes a first member having a first electrode mounted on a first rigid substrate and a first dielectric layer applied thereto and a second member having a second electrode mounted on a second rigid substrate and a second dielectric layer mounted thereto. As shown in a two dielectric layer embodiment can also include gratings formed in the first dielectric layer and the second dielectric layer .

Introducing linear grating on the sliding surfaces enables the new principle to become an extremely efficient means for energy harvesting and it is far superior to the previously demonstrated ones in total output charge current frequency and efficiency. A linear grating with a uniform period is fabricated on both sliding surfaces. The rows of the grating units have the same size as intervals in between with all rows being electrically connected at both ends by two buses. The grating patterns on both sliding surfaces are identical so that they can match well with each other when aligned. Although the grating design reduces the total contact area by half thus seemingly sacrifices half of the triboelectric charges it increases the percentage of the mismatched area to 100 for a displacement of only a grating unit length rather than the entire length of the TENG so that it dramatically increases the transport efficiency of the induced charges. Induced free electrons can be pumped back and forth between electrodes for multiple times due to the grating structure providing multi folds of output charge compared to a non grating TENG. Every row of the grating units can be considered as a reduced sized TENG having a parallel connection with all other rows through buses. In contrast to a non grating TENG that needs to be fully displaced in order to complete pumping of the induced charges for one time the grating TENG only requires a displacement of a unit length to completely transport the induced charges largely improving the energy conversion efficiency. With further displacement of another length of the unit back flow of the induced charges can be realized. Therefore for a one way sliding process across the whole length of the TENG the induced charges can be pumped for 2N 1 times in total where N is the number of grating units. If we take into account that the contacting area decreases as the two surfaces slide apart the following equation represents the total induced charges Q that the grating TENG can provide for a single sliding across the entire length of the TENG 

The total maximum induced charges generated by a non grating TENG can be equivalently expressed as 2q N. Therefore Eq. 6 indicates that the total induced charges linearly increase with the grating density. Experimental data from grating TENGs with more units further confirm the validity of the theoretical analysis.

Though the experimental data closely match the theoretical values for N 4 slight deviation starts to appear if N further increases. The deviation may be attributed to two probable reasons. The first is non ideal orientation mismatch. The two sliding surfaces are likely to have an angle of mismatch that is introduced by experimental operation. As the length of the grating units shrinks the angle of mismatch will exert more substantial effect on the effective contact area between the two surfaces leading to increasingly reduced output charge. This effect can be largely eliminated by more precise alignment during experiment operation. Secondly assumptions made in the analytical theory may become imprecise for very fine grating units due to the edge effect of each unit. The assumption of infinite charged plane will no longer hold once the grating edges can dominantly affect the electric field distribution leading to reduced quantity of induced charges. Further systematic investigation by both experiment and simulation is required to quantitatively understand this non ideal effect. As experimentally observed Vis only weakly related to the number of grating units though slight reduction can be observed. The reduction can also be attributed to the increasingly stronger effect from the mismatched angle. Besides finer grating units will theoretically give a smaller V though this effect may be dominant only when the grating unit has a length approaching the PTFE s thickness. The advantages of the grating structure include not only the enhanced total transported charges but also improved output current. With constant sliding velocity finer grating shortens the time to transport induced charges between the electrodes for one time resulting in higher output current. However the peak of Idoes not increase linearly with the number of units which may result from non uniform velocity during sliding process.

To demonstrate the capability of the new principle as a direct power source a total of 80 commercial LED bulbs were utilized as operating load. They were divided into two groups which were connected to a TENG with reversed polarity in order to clearly demonstrate the AC output without rectification. One substrate of the TENG was fixed on a breadboard where the LEDs were installed while the other one was attached to human fingers. As the hand swept back and forth the sliding was realized. It was noticed that faster sweeping generated higher current peaks as compared with those from slower sweeping. Due to the AC output the two LED groups were alternately lighted up as indicated by ON and OFF states.

Besides the planar design other configurations include concentric discs having relative rotation and coaxial tubes having either rotational motion or reciprocating piston motion. The principles demonstrated for the grating TENG can be applied to other configurations. For example as shown in in one embodiment of a TENG the first member and the second member are cylindrical. The first dielectric layer includes a first grating of evenly spaced apart parallel ridges and troughs and the second member includes a second grating of parallel ridges and troughs . All of the ridges and troughs extend parallel to the axis of the cylinder. Thus when either the first member or the second member is rotated about the cylindrical axis or both rotated so long as there is relative motion between them the ridges of the second member and the first member will come in and out of contact. This embodiment is effective when it is desired to turn rotational motion into electricity. In the embodiment shown in the ridges and troughs of the first grating and the second grating are disposed circumferentially about the cylinder and the sliding mechanism is configured to apply reciprocating motion along the cylindrical axis to either the first member or the second member or both so long as there is relative motion between them thereby converting the reciprocating motion into electricity. In the embodiment shown in the ridges and troughs of the first grating and the second grating extend radially outwardly from a central axis of a disk. Electricity is generated when at least one of the first member and the second member is caused to rotate around the central axis of the disks or both can be rotating so long as there is relative rotational motion between them .

An analytical model for calculating the open circuit voltage of a TENG is now presented using the diagram shown in . For simplicity of the mathematical derivation the analytical model is built based on the following assumptions 

 1 The two sliding surfaces of the TENG are infinitely large because the lateral dimension is much larger than the vertical thickness.

 2 The generated triboelectric charges which are non mobile and non annihilative are uniformly distributed on the two surfaces. This is an excellent approximation if the two materials are insulative. In a case that one side is metal this approximation is made for easy derivation.

 3 Both the aluminum and the PTFE thin film can be simplified as planar surfaces which retain their shapes instead of having deformation when sliding laterally. Once the two surfaces contact with each other triboelectric charges are created due to contact electrification. Based on assumption 2 and assumption 3 the lateral displacement l brings about uncompensated positive and negative triboelectric charges in the displaced areas on the upper surface and the lower surface respectively.

If we define the electric potential of the copper electrode U to be zero the open circuit voltage of the TENG is equal to the electric potential of the electrode electrode U that is S1 Also the electric potential difference can be expressed as S2 Meanwhile given assumption 1 and 2 we can consider the upper surface as charged plate of infinity in size so that the electric lines of force are perpendicular to the surface of the plate as well as the patch from Pto P. As a result 0 S3 and S4 

In order to calculate the electric field strength Ein the path from Pto P let us consider an infinite charged line in the displaced area on the upper surface. And the corresponding electric field strength Eat Pcan be quantitatively expressed as

However only the component along Z axis of the electric filed strength Eis parallel to the electric field making the effective electric filed strength expressed as

Thus the total electric filed strength Egenerated at Palong the z axis by the triboelectric charges on the entire displaced area of the upper surface can be calculated as

The energy conversion efficiency can be estimated through the conversation of energy. According to the definition 

The maximum electrical energy generated by the sliding TENG in a half cycle be estimated using the data of the TENG s output characteristic when driving external load. The highest power output is reached at the resistance of 80 M which will correspond to the maximum electric energy output E . It can be calculated according to the following equation E IRdt

The curve of IR vs. t R 80 M can be derived from the corresponding I vs. t curve and through the integration of one IR peak in a half cycle we can get E 0.145 mJ.

In general the mechanical energy input for driving the sliding TENG is converted into two parts the electrostatic energy E of the two oppositely charged plates at the fully displaced position and the electrical energy E the TENG generated in the sliding process.

As for the electrostatic energy E it can be estimated as where Uand Uare the potentials at the top plate and bottom plate respectively and A is the area of the plate which is 35.5 cm. In this estimation we assume each charged plane has a uniform potential which is reasonable as shown in the simulated results of the potential distribution. From the electrical measurement of the TENG Vis 1300 V and is 105 C m. Thus we can get 1300 V 105 10 35.5 10C 0.485 mJ

The other part of energy input is the heat dissipated during mechanical sliding which is rather difficulty to estimate for the current design. If we ignore this component the maximum energy conversion efficiency can be estimated as follows 

While many different materials can be organized according to a triboelectric series the following is one representative example of a triboelectric series 

As shown in one embodiment of a cylindrical rotating nanogenerator includes an exterior cylindrical member and an interior cylindrical member disposed therein. The exterior cylindrical member includes an outer cylindrical shell made from a material such as acrylic and a first grating that includes a first plurality of ridges extending inwardly therefrom and made from a conductive material such as copper. A first electrode lead extends from one of the ridges . The interior cylindrical member includes a cylindrical core made of a material such as acrylic with a second grating that includes a plurality of ridges extending outwardly therefrom. Each ridge includes a foam core extending outwardly therefrom. A conductive cladding such as a copper cladding is disposed about the foam core and a triboelectric layer which is made of a material such as PTFE that has a rating on a triboelectric series that is different from the rating of the material from which the first plurality of ridges is made from. A nanoscale texture is applied to the outer surface of triboelectric layer using one of many known methods of generating a nanoscale texture including lithography etc. to improve charge transfer characteristics. A second electrode lead extends from the conductive cladding . In this embodiment electrical current will be generated when there is relative rotational movement between the exterior cylindrical member and the interior cylindrical member .

As shown in the exterior member includes a cylindrical cuff and a first grating that is disposed circumferentially to the cylindrical cuff . The interior member includes a cylinder disposed inside of the cylindrical cuff and a second grating that is disposed circumferentially to the cylinder . This embodiment will generate electricity when there is relative axial movement between cylindrical cuff and cylinder .

A spiral embodiment triboelectric generator is shown in . This embodiment includes an exterior cylindrical member which could be made of a polymer foam with a first grating disposed helically about the inside surface of the exterior cylindrical member . An interior cylindrical member is disposed inside of the exterior cylindrical member and the second grating is helically disposed about the interior cylindrical member in a pattern that is complementary to the first grating . This embodiment will generate electricity when there is relative movement whether axial rotational or a combination of the two between exterior cylindrical member and interior cylindrical member .

One experimental embodiment was patterned with alternating Kapton and copper strips arranged at 45 spirals on both sides of the contact surface and packed in a case encapsulated structure the generator produced output signals with an amplitude of up to 30 V over an external load circuit. To fabricate the interfaces a polyimide film Kapton was used not only as a durable supporting substrate but also as a high performance electrification material for generating the triboelectric charges during the sliding motion with copper electrodes. On either side of the Kapton film copper stripes were deposited with a linear pitch of 8 mm. The electrode stripes on the 2 sides formed a linear shift of half a pitch giving rise to an alternating pattern with one another. The Kapton film was then wrapped over the acrylic cylinder with the strip direction at a 45 screw angle with the cylinder axis. A second Kapton film with the same electrode pattern was encased in the foam cuff for producing the relative motion. An inner electrode IE was formed by stringing together the copper stripes at the two contact surfaces via bus electrodes. An outer electrode OE was formed by those on the other side of the Kapton film.

Another embodiment of a reciprocating motion generator is shown in in which a cylinder has top end capped by a top cap member an opposite bottom end capped by a bottom cap member and a piston that is slidably disposed within the cylinder . The top cap member includes a first electrode layer and a first triboelectric material layer that includes a material having a first rating on a triboelectric series such as for example polyamide. The bottom cap member includes a second electrode layer and a second triboelectric material layer that includes a material having a second rating on the triboelectric series which could also be for example polyamide. The piston includes a cylindrical body portion that has a top surface and an opposite bottom surface. A third electrode layer is disposed on the top surface and a third triboelectric material layer is disposed on the third electrode layer . The third triboelectric material layer includes a material that has a third rating on the triboelectric series such as for example polytetrafluoroethylene that is different from the first rating on the triboelectric series. A fourth electrode layer is disposed on the bottom surface and a fourth triboelectric material layer is disposed below the fourth electrode layer . The fourth triboelectric material layer includes a material such as for example polytetrafluoroethylene that has a fourth rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the second rating on the triboelectric series. In one embodiment at least one of the triboelectric material layers and includes nanoscale texture on an outer surface thereof.

The electrode layers and each include conductive material for example copper. A first load may be electrically coupled to the first electrode layer the third electrode layer and a second load may be coupled to the second electrode layer and the fourth electrode layer .

In an experimental embodiment of a generator in an enclosed cylinder two PA films with the Cu film electrodes were fixed on the top and bottom inside surfaces of the cylinder length of 180 mm diameter of 65 mm respectively. A cylindrical piston was placed inside the cylinder the top and bottom end surfaces of which were covered by the PTFE films with the Cu film electrodes. Two generators were fabricated at the top and bottom inside surfaces of the cylinder respectively and they can work alternately when the piston was shaken up and down inside the cylinder.

An initial state of the generator is shown in and a cycle of successive states of the generator as it is being shaken laterally along the cylindrical axis is shown in which represents a complete cycle that would typically be repeated many times . demonstrate the working mechanism of the generators when the piston is moved up and down in the cylinder . At original state there is no triboelectric or induced charges in the system and no output voltage or current is observed. Considering the bottom portion of the generator the top portion behaving in a complementary manner when the PTFE and PA films are brought into contact with each other at the bottom of the cylinder as shown in electrons are injected from the PA film to the PTFE film due to the different triboelectric polarities. Thus the net negative and positive charges are induced at the PTFE and PA surfaces respectively. These triboelectric charges have a long time retention in the respective films due to the insulating property of the polymers. When the piston was moved up electrons flow from the Cu electrode next to the PTFE film to the Cu electrode next to the PA film to balance the potential created by the triboelectric charges resulting in the output current signals as shown in . When the piston is moved all of the way up the top end cap is contacted and a similar process occurs. When the piston is moved down again as shown in electrons flow back from the Cu electrode next to the PA layer to the Cu electrode next to the PTFE layer resulting in a negative current. When the PA film is once again in contact with the PTFE film at the bottom portion there is no observed output current as shown in . When the piston is moved up again as shown in electrons flow from the electrode next to the PTFE layer to the electrode next to the PA layer resulting in a positive current. The top portion works in the same way as the bottom portion except it has a 180 phase shift in output signals.

Yet another reciprocating motion triboelectric generator is show in . This embodiment includes a first reference surface to which a spring is affixed and a spaced apart second reference surface . An inertial member which could include a material such as acrylic is affixed to the spring . A first triboelectric member is affixed to the bottom surface of the inertial member. The first triboelectric member includes a material such as for example aluminum that has a first rating on a triboelectric series. If made from a conductive material the first triboelectric member can also act as a conductive layer. A second triboelectric member is affixed to the second reference surface . The second triboelectric member includes a material such as for example a polyimide film that has a second rating on the triboelectric series that is different from the first rating and a conductive layer which could include for example copper . A dielectric layer is disposed between the conductive layer of the first triboelectric member and conductive layer to electrically isolate the two from each other. If material is a dielectric it will achieve this function. One or both of the outer surfaces of the first triboelectric member and the second triboelectric member can have a nanoscale texture to facilitate increased charge transfer during contact. When up and down reciprocating motion is applied to this generator the surfaces of the triboelectric members and go in and out of contact which will cause current to flow through a load not shown coupling the two conductive surfaces of the triboelectric members and .

Another embodiment of a generator is shown in . This embodiment includes a waterproof shell which in the embodiment shown is spherical but could be any one of many other three dimensional shapes with a conductive inner surface which could include for example copper affixed to the inside surface of the shell . A first triboelectric layer is affixed to the conductive inner surface and includes a first material that has a first rating on a triboelectric series for example a polytetrafluoroethylene film .

A conductive three dimensional object is disposed inside of the shell and includes a conductive core which could include for example copper . The conductive three dimensional object is shown as being spherical but could be one of many other shapes. A second triboelectric layer affixed to the conductive core and includes a second material which could include for example a polyamide film that has a second rating on the triboelectric series in which the second rating is different from the first rating. A first conductor is electrically coupled to the conductive inner surface and extends to outside of the shell .

A second conductor is electrically coupled to the conductive core and also extends to outside of the shell . A member suspends the three dimensional object within the shell and allow the three dimensional object to move freely around the inside of the shell including from a plurality of positions in which the second triboelectric layer is in contact with the first triboelectric layer to a plurality of positions in which the second triboelectric layer is not in contact with the first triboelectric layer . Member can include an insulating cladding to isolate conductor from conductive surface . Again one or both of the triboelectric material surfaces and can include nanoscale texture on an outer surface thereof to improve charge transfer.

A load can be coupled between the conductors and so that when the generator moves around and thus when object moves in and out of contact with first triboelectric layer current flows through the load . This embodiment because it may be made waterproof may be useful in harvesting energy from wave action and the like.

In one experimental embodiment of a generator in an enclosed spherical shell a Cu film 250 nm electrode was evaporated on a PTFE film thickness of 25 m which was attached to the inner surface of a large plastic ball diameter of 80 mm . Another Cu film 250 nm was evaporated on a PA film thickness of 25 m which was attached to the outer surface of a smaller sphere diameter of 50 mm . The smaller sphere was placed inside the large spherical shell and both were linked by cables. The fabricated device was then sealed by epoxy paint so that it was fully waterproof. This fabricated generator embodiment is based on the contact separation between the PTFE film on the inner surface of the larger spherical shell and the PA film on the outer surface of the smaller sphere to induce a voltage drop for driving electrons to flow in the external circuit. The smaller sphere can freely oscillate in any direction in responding to the disturbance from the environment.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

