---

title: Providing power utilization information for operational states of an application across different operating systems
abstract: An approach for providing power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application across different operating systems is described. A power utilization platform determines power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application, one or more operating systems in which the application executes, or a combination thereof. The power utilization platform further stores the power utilization information as metadata associated with a record of the application in a data repository associated with an application distribution service. The power utilization information is then presented in a user interface of the application distribution service in a response to a request to view the record of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465711&OS=09465711&RS=09465711
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09465711
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
Application developers and service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling applications and delivery platforms. One area of interest has been providing users with methods for limiting the amount of power consumed by user devices e.g. mobile devices that employ the applications. For example many applications are configured to perform various network tasks activate the sensors of the user device persistently monitor user activity or perform various other run time operations that may significantly drain the battery power of the device. Typically users are not aware of the power utilization of the application until after it has been loaded onto their device and executed by the operating system.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for providing power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application across different operating systems.

An apparatus method and software for providing power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application across different operating systems is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to an application distribution service such as an application app store or download center it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to any systems resources platforms or methodologies for publishing posting uploading applications or information regarding said applications purchasing or distributing applications acquiring downloading applications developing and or adapting applications or the like.

Typically users of devices access various applications for performing different operations tasks. For example a social networking application may be executed by a user of a mobile device for enabling the user to conveniently interact with friends and peers via a social network while on the go. Generally the social networking application may perform various run time operations including continually accessing a network to facilitate peer to peer communication messaging activating one or more sound or visual alert features of the device in response to messages or friend activity activating one or more location sensors for enabling various location based services etc. Similarly other applications such as a heart rate monitoring application language processing application email tool news feed application or the like may also run on the user device at any given time all of which further require the execution of various tasks that drain the available battery power.

To conserve power users typically manually adjust the settings or features of the different applications running on the user device . For example the user may disable the network connectivity or sensory functions of an application e.g. disable Wi Fi or motion sensing . As another example users may activate one or more standard device power conservation settings i.e. lower the brightness of the display or deactivate applications in their entirety as a means of limiting power use. While such efforts may help ultimately users lack the necessary data to determine which applications and operational states of said applications result in the most power consumption relative to their specific device operating system. In addition device users have no effective means of adapting power utilization by applications relative to their specific needs.

To address this issue system presents a power utilization platform that operates in connection with an application distribution service to generate acquire and or convey power utilization information regarding an application across different operating systems OS . By way of example this corresponds to a means of power utilization information determination that accounts for the specific requirements and characteristics of an application on a particular type of operating system OS . Furthermore the platform supports continuous adaptation and refinement of power utilization information regarding an application.

Still further the power utilization platform operates in connection with user devices to enable effective regulation of power use by an application at the device . As will be described more fully later on the power utilization platform may account for one or more user defined preferences for affecting utilization of the application or other applications at the device . In addition the platform may utilize the determined power utilization information for the application or the other applications to manage execution of said applications at various operational states. The managed execution of the applications may be performed with respect to a user specified prioritization of one or more applications of the device a user specified duration of use of one or more applications of the device or a combination thereof.

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UDs can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchanging of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices for directly accessing and or executing the power utilization platform the application distribution service or a combination thereof are applicable.

By way of example a first user device may run an application via operating system OS while a second user device may run the same application per different OS . Under this scenario the power utilization of the application as run by the first user device may differ from that of the second device due to the different processing and operational characteristics of the respective OS and . In addition various characteristics of a device such as the current available battery power the device type e.g. processor memory version device peripheral usage e.g. access to external power sources connectivity to other user devices and existing application preferences of the user may further impact power utilization of the application at respective devices . Hence the power utilization platform enables users to access relevant power utilization information regarding the application or various operational states thereof for differing operating systems.

For the purpose of illustration power utilization information may include a power use rating e.g. energy units consumed per hour of the application a power consumption level of the application e.g. 15 of available device power a time duration for representing a maximum period of continuous use of the application e.g. 6 hours of continuous use a ranking grade or textual description for indicating a level of power utilization effectiveness of the application e.g. 4 out of 5 star power efficiency ranking B power friendliness rating or a combination thereof. As will be discussed later on herein the power utilization information may be conveyed textually graphically or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the power utilization platform determines power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application one or more operating systems in which the application executes or a combination thereof. By way of example the power utilization information may be determined as a result of a benchmark determination procedure wherein the platform is configured to operate as a benchmark evaluation system. Alternatively the power utilization information may be directly provided by a user i.e. an application provider as metadata to be associated with an application.

In the case of the former the benchmark evaluation procedure may include 1 determining power utilization information for a specific application and operating system OS during various operational states of execution of the application 2 determining power utilization information for the application based on user defined execution preferences for the application or other applications of a user device 3 receiving historical power utilization information for the application for a group of user device operating systems during various operational states of the application and 4 determining the power utilization of a specific application relative to the historical power utilization information and or based on the user defined execution preferences for the application. Hence the determination evaluation procedure may include means for calculating the power utilization information acquiring it from historical records or deriving it based one or more user preferences e.g. a priority of use as associated with the application . Also the power utilization information may be determined as a minimum power utilization an average power utilization a maximum power utilization or a combination thereof.

The platform may perform the above described benchmark evaluation procedure as one or more test scenarios designed to determine the minimum average and maximum power utilization of the application under test. Test scenarios may be implemented as one or more customized executable scripts intended to mimic model or mirror the operating system during different run time operating states accordingly. The platform then observes and records the power utilization information to a data repository for these states of operation. Of note the recorded power utilization information can be used in various ways including publishing the information as metadata in connection with a record of the application for display by the application distribution service . As another example the information can be stored to a repository of the application provider for future analysis and software optimization purposes. Still further the power utilization information as determined for different user devices for the same application may be constantly refined to improve the quality of the data set. The embodiments herein support any means of use of the power utilization information

In one embodiment the power utilization platform may be configured to interact with the application distribution service e.g. online application store for initiating the determination process. For example when a request to post and or distribute an application is submitted by an application provider the platform queries the application provider for power utilization information or performs the benchmark evaluation procedure. By way of this approach the platform governs the interaction between the application provider and the service thus ensuring all applications provided by the service are associated with relevant power utilization information . The power utilization information as determined is stored by the platform as metadata associated with a record of the application in a data repository of or associated with the application distribution service . Resultantly this information can then be presented to a user interface of the application distribution service as neutral unbiased power utilization information regarding any application.

In another embodiment the power utilization platform determines one or more characteristics of a user device making the request to view the record of an application via the application distribution service . This includes for example initiating a detection of the user device type the operating system type the processor type the memory capacity the available battery level of the device etc. when the user device accesses the user interface of the service . In addition the platform may determine any known historic power utilization information for the device i.e. as determined per prior benchmarking of the application for the user device . Hence the process of determining the characteristics of the device may be performed in association with determining the power utilization of an application of the device .

Once the characteristics are determined the power utilization platform may adapt the power utilization information associated with the application and subsequently update the presented information at the user interface of the service . This corresponds to dynamic adaptation of the information wherein the most recent power utilization information for the application is presented in connection with the application information relative to the operating system of the device. In addition the platform may also learn and maintain a history of the typical power utilization of the application as run on a specific device since download of the application for the device user or a group of other users with the same or similar device. As such the platform may utilize the historic power utilization information of the application to continually refine the overall information set as sourced from other repositories thus affecting the power utilization information presented in connection with the application information accordingly.

For the purpose of illustration a scenario of a user interacting with an application distribution service i.e. an application store via their user device is presented. The power utilization platform is configured to interact with the user device as they access the application store via a network connection. Under this scenario as the user accesses the application distribution service to review details regarding an application available for download or purchase the platform initiates a detection process to determine the operating system type processor type and other characteristics of the device. In addition the platform may determine power utilization information to associate with application based on the determined characteristics of the user device or historic or custom power utilization information regarding the application. As a result the platform updated the user interface of the application distribution service to present power utilization information that is pertinent to the specific operating system of the device and typical power utilization patterns of the application at the device.

In another scenario a user initiates a request to post application information to the application distribution service . In response to the request the power utilization platform determines power utilization information for one or more operational states of the application across different operating systems in which the application executes. The determination includes generating the information such as by performing a benchmark evaluation of the application per one or more test scripts . Alternatively the determination is fulfilled based on the receipt of manual input from the user. Once determined the platform then stores the power utilization information as metadata to associate with application information at a repository of the application distribution service . This ensures power utilization information is presented at the application store in connection with the posted application while also supporting the refinement of the overall power utilization information set provided by other users of the application across operating systems. It is contemplated in certain embodiments that fulfillment of the request is associated with the determination of the power utilization information.

In another embodiment the power utilization platform also enables users to manage the execution of applications at a user device based on various factors including a determined prioritization of one or more applications one or more user specified preferences one or more characteristics of the device or a combination thereof. The managing of the application at the device may include for example deactivating discontinuing an application or a specific operating state thereof generating a message regarding the deactivating discontinuing of one or more applications generating a recommendation for indicating a suggested user action e.g. Powering down the ABC Messaging App will extend battery life by approximately 30 minutes. automatically adjusting or overriding a priority of deactivated discontinued use of applications initiating a timing of deactivating discontinuing an application of specific operating state thereof activating enabling an application or specific operating state thereof e.g. deactivating an application that uses a lot of power for one that performs similar functions but uses less power etc.

By way of example user devices may interact with the platform from their user device such as via a user interface of the platform a widget or application associated with the platform etc. In one embodiment the user may provide input to the platform for specifying which applications of the device are deemed essential a prioritization of the various applications and the duration for use of said applications. These inputs impact the management of the applications at the device. The essential applications may include those which the user deems must be available for use over the user specified period of time thus the essential applications are to remain active enabled for the designated period of use. Alternatively the user may interact with the platform to assign custom priorities for indicating the order in which non essential applications are to be discontinued during the user specified period of time. Of note the prioritization may correspond to an order of deactivation disabling of one or more applications or features thereof for specific operating states of the applications.

For the purpose of illustration a scenario for depicting the managed execution of an application at various states of operation is presented. The user device is configured to operate in connection with the power utilization platform for supporting managed execution based on gathered power utilization information . In this case the user of the device wants to be able to make video calls for the next 6 hours. The user is also aware that their current battery charge is only 66 of capacity and they wish to effectively manage power utilization at the device to meet their requirements. Under this scenario the user would access an interface of the platform or invoke a widget application of the platform in order to specify the required time duration of 6 hours. This may include indicating a start time in which to begin the management process. In addition the user may designate a video chat application of the device as an essential application corresponding to the time period as well as prioritize various other applications e.g. email application navigation application and a media player as non essential for this period of use. Once the preferences and priorities are established the user submits the input to the power utilization platform . The platform also detects and or receives data for indicating various characteristics of the user device such as the current battery capacity the operating system type etc.

In response to the request the platform determines power utilization information to associate with the specified applications based on the particular operating system of the requesting user device. In addition the platform determines the prioritization of the specified applications e.g. the priority of the video chat application versus that of the email application to effectively manage the execution of one or more states of the applications for the designated time period. This includes for example analyzing the user specified prioritization against the power utilization information for the applications to determine whether the prioritization meets the required period of use. Based on this analysis the platform then causes a recommendation message to be submitted to a display of the user device for indicating a different prioritization based on historical power utilization information for the video chat application the other applications and the current battery power of the requesting user device.

The message received by the user per this scenario includes details regarding the power utilization of the essential application the video chat application as well as power utilization information for the other applications specified by the user. The power utilization information is presented as a rating for indicating a percentage of power use of the application s for the operating system of the requesting device. In addition the message indicates the time duration of 6 hours can be fulfilled as well as the amount of time and or power utilization recovered as a result of discontinued use of the non essential applications. The user device then proceeds to invoke the managed execution of the application s accordingly for the specified time duration.

It is noted that the power utilization platform facilitates more intelligent and dynamic end user management of application power utilization based on actual power utilization information culled or generated specific to the operating system and characteristics of a requesting device. This is as opposed to ad hoc or manual management of applications as performed by the user. In addition the power utilization platform serves as a governing entity between application providers and an application distribution service for ensuring relevant power utilization information is associated with applications across varying operating states and operating systems.

In certain embodiments user devices the power utilization platform the application distribution service and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity Wi Fi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In one embodiment the authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the platform for enabling the generation of and accessing of power utilization information for different applications. In the case of a first time subscriber to the platform the authentication process may be performed in connection with a benchmarking module which determines power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application for the user device.

In addition the characteristics determination module may operate in connection with the authentication module for detecting the characteristics of the subscribing user device including operating system type device type processor speed and type memory availability device power capacity etc. This information may be compiled into a historical power utilization information record for the user for supporting subsequent interaction between the device and the platform .

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Profile information for respective subscribers may be cross referenced as part of the login process against an IP address a carrier detection signal of the user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

In one embodiment the characteristics determination module determines the various characteristics of a user device as well as any user specified requirements for affecting power utilization by one or more applications and or operating states thereof. This may include for example receiving an input for indicating a time duration for managing the execution of one or more operational states of an application. The characteristics determination module may also receive input for indicating a priority e.g. low to high priority for discontinued use deactivation of applications or features thereof or a designation for indicating whether the application is essential or non essential. Of note the characteristics determination module may operate in connection with the user interface module to generate messages at the user interface of a device for requesting and or receiving said input. Once received the input is provided to the prioritization determination module for processing.

In one embodiment the prioritization determination module determines a prioritization of an application among a plurality of other applications installed on the user device based on the power utilization information for said device. The determination may include processing the user input for indicating a priority low to high priority for discontinued use deactivation of applications or the input for specifying a designation of whether the application is essential or non essential. Also the prioritization determination module may perform an analysis of the inputs against the time duration specified by the user to determine a prioritization of one or more applications for enabling fulfillment of the time duration i.e. an alternative or optimal prioritization. The prioritization determination module may also account for current device battery power and known power utilization information for determining the priority. Once determined the prioritization determination module then activates the execution module which generates a signal for managing the execution of the one or more operational states of the application the plurality of other applications or a combination thereof at the device based on the prioritization and or the desired time duration.

In another embodiment the generation module operates in connection with the benchmarking module and characteristics determination module to continually update power utilization information regarding one or more applications of the user device. By way of example the generation module updates a history of the typical behavior and power utilization information for an application as run on the device operating system since download of the application from an application distribution service. Based on this information the generation module then initiates a refining of the power utilization performance information for the same application and operating system as gathered from other repositories other devices that employ the same application from known benchmark information etc.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for the platform . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to a browser application or web portal application of the user devices thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. This may include the generation of messages regarding power utilization information for one or more operating states of an application as well as the generation of various fields for receiving user input.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the platform and the user device. In addition the communication module may provide an interface to the application distribution service for facilitating the gathering provisioning and refining of power utilization information with respect to one or more applications. By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the platform over the network .

The above presented modules and components of the power utilization platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective user devices . As such the platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the device for interacting with the application and accessing the application distribution service . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective user devices as a platform hosted solution cloud based service or the like.

In step of process the power utilization platform determines power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application one or more operating systems in which the application executes or a combination thereof. As noted the operational states may correspond to the execution of specific functions or features of the application. Hence the platform may support the determining and managing of application power utilization for an application in its entirety or select features thereof. In another step the platform determines the power utilization information using a benchmark evaluation system. As mentioned the benchmark evaluation system may include an automated power utilization test scenario a custom power utilization test scenario or a combination thereof. The test scenarios may be implemented as one or more scripts.

In another step the platform stores the power utilization information as metadata associated with a record of the application in a data repository associated with an application distribution service. Per this execution the power utilization information is readily associated with the application or details thereof e.g. cost information product information feature information . In step the platform presents the power utilization information in a user interface of the application distribution service in a response to a request to view the record of the application. It is noted that the power utilization information includes a minimum power utilization an average power utilization a maximum power utilization or a combination thereof the one or more operational states the one or more operating systems or a combination thereof.

In step of process the power utilization platform determines one or more characteristics of a device making the request to view the record of the application. The viewing request is submitted by the device as it accesses the application distribution service i.e. an application store or download center. In another step the platform adapts the power utilization information based on the one or more characteristics of the user device. As mentioned previously the one or more characteristics may include a device type a device capability available power information historical power utilization of the device historical power related behavior of the application or a combination thereof. Per step the platform presents the adapted power utilization information in the user interface. This adaptation may occur dynamically such that updates to the power utilization information is readily conveyed to the user of the device in response to the device behavior the behavior of other devices that execute the same operating system or a combination thereof.

In step or process the power utilization platform determines a prioritization of the application among a plurality of other applications installed on the device based on the power utilization information. In another step the platform manages an execution of the one or more operational states of the application the plurality of other applications or a combination thereof at the device based on the prioritization. By way of example the platform may activate deactivate or limit the use of a refresh feature of an email application such that the application performs fewer scheduled updates. As another example the platform may manage the execution of a location finding application to perform less frequent polling by the location sensors for detecting location information.

In step or process the power utilization platform receives an input for specifying a desired operating time duration for the device. As noted the operating time duration may correspond to a specific start time and end time. In another step the platform receives an input for designating whether the applications the plurality of other applications or a combination thereof are respectively essential or non essential. Per step the platform manages the execution of the one or more operational states of the application the plurality of the other applications or a combination thereof based on the prioritization to achieve the desired operating time duration. It is noted that the prioritization is further based at least in part on the essentiality designation.

In the user device accesses the application store user interface to view details regarding various applications available for download and or purchase. The details may include the name of an application available for purchase e.g. NAME GAME along with cost information . In addition a description of the application is presented as well as one or more action buttons and for enabling the user to exit the interface or purchase the application respectively.

Of note the application store interface is accessed by way of a browser application of the user device which is configured to communicate with the application store via the network and acquire content for presentment. Hence per this scenario the request to view the details of the application at the application store causes the power utilization platform to determine the characteristics of the device that initiated the request. This includes for example initiating a feedback message to the device for receiving operating system details of the device battery consumption capacity information device type information processor type information memory utilization information etc. Based on the determined characteristics the power utilization platform causes power utilization information to be rendered specific to the operating system of the requesting user device .

In this case the power utilization information is presented as an icon for representing a level of consumption of the application for the specific operating system of the user device . In addition the information is presented as a grade for indicating the application requires Mid to High power use for the specific operating system XYZ OS that runs on the device . This information may be based on benchmark data representative of other user devices that accessed the application for the same operating system as user device . It is noted that as the benchmark and or historical power utilization information changes for the user device or other devices that employ the application via the same operating system the grade information may be adapted at the display accordingly e.g. change from Low to Mid based on a broader range of samples for determining the benchmark.

Still further the power utilization information includes an amount of time that the application could continuously run on the user device assuming the battery of the user device was at full capacity. It is noted that the amount of time of continuous execution may be determined based at least in part on the determined battery capacity of the user device as well as optionally on the current battery levels of the device or installed running applications. As noted above the time of continuous execution may be adapted and presented anew to the interface in response to updating of the benchmark information or the behavior of the user device e.g. the closing of one or more network applications at the device . By way of example reduced execution of one or more applications or operating states of applications at the device may result in the continuous time representation being changed to 4 hours instead of 2 due to minimized power utilization by the user device .

Based on this power utilization information the user is able to better evaluate whether they want to acquire the application. This enables the user make a decision not just on the basis of the price or the details features of the application but rather on the basis of the standard typical or specific amount of power utilization of the application for the XYZ operating system.

In the user device accesses a user interface of the power utilization platform in order to specify one or more user preferences. In this example the user wants to be able to utilize the NAME GAME application as acquired per for use at a social networking event they will be attending from 1 PM to 4 PM. Hence the user enters the time period at a time duration field of the interface . In addition the user may optionally assign a priority to various applications of the device wherein the priority corresponds to an order priority in which to discontinue the use of that application during the specified time period. Still further the user may designate one or more applications as essential and or non essential via the interface .

Under this scenario the user interface presents a graphical list of the available applications of the user device . In addition the user may select an application in its entirety or specific operations states features of the application. For example when the user selects and holds the icon that represents the NAME GAME application the icon becomes highlighted for indicating that this is an essential application. As another example when the user taps the icons which are representative applications the user wants to discontinue during the time period these icons become masked. The user may also assign a priority to each of the masked applications wherein the priority represents the order of execution of discontinuation of that application or the level of precedence of one application versus another. In the case of the applications represented by icons the user indicates that these are to be discontinued in their entirety. As such the applications are completely shut down deactivated during the time period. However in the case of the application represented by icon the user specifies that one specific operating state of that application be discontinued which is the Locating feature of the application.

Once this input is provided by the user it is then transmitted to the power utilization platform via a network. Alternatively in the case wherein the power utilization platform is directly integrated within the user device as an application or service at the device the platform then initiates management of the application based on the input. In addition the platform determines power utilization information for the operating states of the applications specified device characteristics for the user device and any historical power utilization information for the user device that initiated the request from the user interface .

While not presented herein the power utilization platform may cause the user interface to be updated to reflect a recommended prioritization of the one or more applications. The recommendation may be based upon updated power utilization information as culled from other repositories regarding the same application updated behavior of the user device submitting the request or the like. In either case the action may correspond to a recommendation that is approved by the user or be performed as an automated execution of the power utilization platform for fulfilling the requirements of the user during the time period for the specific operating system and available power levels of the user device .

In the power utilization platform initiates managed execution of one or more operational states of the applications of the user device . In keeping with the example at the time of 1 PM the platform causes a reminder message to be presented to a user interface of a video chat application. The reminder message is presented to the display in this case even while the user is engaged in a video chat session with a friend whose image is shown as . The message is meant to remind the user that the managed execution period is to be initiated as specified by the user. Even if a start time for the period is not entered by the user the platform may determine a start time for the managed execution period based on the user specified desired availability for the essential application. The user may optionally select a link for viewing the full details of the managed executions and or actions to be taken by the platform e.g. which application s and or operational states of various applications will be discontinued . An OK or NO action button and respectively may be selected by the user for enabling the managed execution to commence or dispense. The reminder notification feature may also be disabled based on user preferences.

In one the managed execution is enabled the non essential applications are discontinued and the essential application is activated which in this example corresponds to the NAME GAME application. Under this scenario the user interface of the application is presented along with various details corresponding to the functionality of the application. In addition the power utilization platform renders a power utilization icon and message to the user interface for indicating that the device and or application is operating in a managed power utilization and execution mode. The R as presented underneath the icon also indicates that the power utilization of the NAME GAME application is being monitored and recorded by the platform . This recording action will occur for the duration of the time period and is then reported to the platform periodically or at the end of the specified period as depicted in .

The processes described herein for providing power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application across different operating systems may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide power utilization information for one or more operational states of an application across different operating systems. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

