---

title: Method for managing email message of call application, user device using the same, and non-volatile medium recording thereon program for executing the method
abstract: Various methods and user devices for managing an email message through a call application. An email application installed in the user device extracts a phone number and/or body content of the email message from the email message, and then delivers the extracted phone number and/or body content to a call application installed in the user device. Then the call application stores and/or displays, in a memory and/or on a display unit, the phone number and/or body content of the email message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565299&OS=09565299&RS=09565299
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09565299
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141226
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a from a Korean patent application filed on Jan. 3 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0000917 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a method and device for offering an email message in a call application which identifies sending device by means of a phone number when the email message is received or sent. Particularly the present disclosure relates to a method and device for offering an email message through interworking between a call application and an email application.

There are call applications that use a phone number to identify a caller or someone sending a text message and email applications that use an email address to identify the sender of the email. A text message application and a call log application are two examples of the more general category of a call application. The text message application receives a text message from a sending device identified by a phone number or sends a text message entered by a user to receiving device via a base station. As such a text message a Short Message Service SMS is a message having a limitation in a quantity of characters contained in the message a Long Message Service LMS is a message having substantially no limitation regarding the quantity of characters contained in the message a Multimedia Message Service MMS is a message with an attached file and the like are currently in wide use due to the proliferation of wireless devices not limited to mobile electronic devices.

For an example of various operations the call log application stores manages and displays a received sent call log a received sent text message log and a missed call log.

The email application receives an email message from a sender typically identified via an email address or the email application sends an email message entered by a user to a recipient via a mail server.

In the case of using the call application and the email application together a user often experiences the inconvenience of having to separately manage a text message and an email message by each respective application. This inconvenience is caused by a difference in a manner of identifying a sender. Namely the call application such as the text message application or the call log application identifies a sender by the phone number of the sender s device whereas the email application identifies a sender by an email address.

While the text message application or the call log application is an inherent function of a traditional mobile phone the email application which is a traditionally function of a personal computer and thus email is a recently added function of an advanced mobile phone such as a smart phone. In addition users tend to use an email message less frequently than a voice call or a text message. Additionally due to a lot of spam email a user often has some difficulty in sorting a personal email message and valid messages are sometimes inadvertently sent to a spam folder by screening programs. For such reasons a sender tends to use the call log application or the text message application more frequently than the email application.

Considering recent changes in wireless infrastructure allowing easier use of data or WiFi and the ever increasing popularization of smart phones new techniques to improve accessibility of email applications that permit both the comprehensive management of text messages and an email messages is required.

Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method and device for overcoming the above drawbacks in a novel and non obvious manner.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a method for managing an email message in a user device using a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise the operations of acquiring the email message from an external device extracting the phone number from the received email message at the call application installed in the user device acquiring the extracted phone number and an associated source identifier indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message and storing the received phone number and the associated source identifier in storage in a predefined type of category.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a method for managing an email message in a user device using a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise acquiring the email message from an external device extracting the phone number and body content of the email message from the received email message and displaying the body content of the email message in a message window which corresponds to the phone number and is offered by a text message application installed in the user device.

According to still another embodiment of the present disclosure a method for managing an email message in a user device using a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise acquiring the email message from an external device extracting the phone number from the received email message at a call log application installed in the user device acquiring the extracted phone number and a generated source identifier associated with the extracted phone number that indicates that the phone number is extracted from the email message and displaying the received phone number and a source icon associated with the source identifier in a log list provided offered by the call log application.

According to yet another embodiment of the present disclosure a user device for managing an email message through a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise a non transitory memory configured to store therein an email application and the call application and a control unit configured to control the email application to receive the email message from an external device to control the call application to receive the phone number extracted from the email message and a generated a source identifier associated with the extracted phone number indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message and to control the memory to store therein the received phone number and the associated source identifier in a predefined type.

According to further another embodiment of the present disclosure a user device for managing an email message through a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise a display unit a non transitory memory configured to store therein an email application and a text message application and a control unit configured to control the email application to receive the email message from an external device to control the text message application to receive the phone number contained in the email message and to receive body content of the email message and to control the display unit to display the body content of the email message in a message window which corresponds to the phone number and is offered by the text message application.

According to still further another embodiment of the present disclosure a user device for managing an email message through a call application that identifies a sender device by a phone number may comprise a display unit a memory configured to store therein an email application and a call log application and a control unit configured to control the email application to receive the email message from an external device to control the call log application to receive the phone number extracted from the email message and a generated source identifier associated with the extracted phone number indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message and to control the display unit to display the received phone number and a source icon associated with the source identifier in a log list offered by the call log application.

According to yet further another embodiment of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium may record thereon a executable code when loaded into hardware such as a processor microprocessor or controller for managing an email message through a call application which is installed in a user device and identifies a sender device by a phone number the program configured to define control commands for acquiring the email message from an external device extracting a phone number from the received email message at the call application acquiring the extracted phone number and a source identifier associated with the extracted phone number indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message and storing the received phone number and the associated source identifier in a predefined type.

According to yet further another embodiment of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium may record thereon a executable code when loaded into hardware such as a processor microprocessor or controller for managing an email message through a call application which is installed in a user device and identifies a sender device by a phone number the program configured to define control commands for acquiring the email message from an external device extracting the phone number and body content of the email message from the received email message and displaying the body content of the email message in a message window which corresponds to the phone number and is offered by a text message application installed in the user device.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist a person of ordinary skill in the art with a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. The detailed description includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness when their inclusion would obscure appreciation of the disclosure by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustrative purposes only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms including at least one of or one or more of unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Or means and or . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising or includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features regions integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features regions integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The user device shown in may be applied to for example a great variety of electronic devices such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a notebook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a portable medical device a digital camera a wearable device e.g. an Head Mounted Device HMD or a wrist watch a TV a DVD Digital Video Disk player audio equipment a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or a medical device e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT ultrasonography etc. just to name a few of the non limiting possible devices.

According to some embodiments the user device may be also referred to as a portable device a mobile device a user terminal an electronic device or the like as well understood by those skilled in the art.

Referring to the user device may include but not be limited to a display unit a control unit a non transitory memory a GPS Global Positioning System chip a communication unit a video processor an audio processor a user input unit a microphone unit a camera unit a speaker unit and a motion sensing unit .

The display unit may include a display panel and a display controller not shown comprised of integrated circuitry and or programmable hardware for controlling the display panel . The display panel may be formed of various types of display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED an Active Matrix OLED AM OLED a Plasma Display Panel PDP or the like. The display panel may be embodied to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The display unit may be offered in the form of a touch screen not shown by combining with a touch panel of the user input unit . For example the touch screen may include a single module in which the display panel and the touch panel form a stack structure.

The non transitory memory may include an internal memory and an external memory. The internal memory may be a volatile memory e.g. DRAM Dynamic RAM SRAM Static RAM SDRAM Synchronous DRAM etc. . For example an application may be loaded onto the first memory of the memory and then executed. When the supply of electric power is stopped information may disappear from this volatile memory. The internal memory may be a nonvolatile memory e.g. OTPROM One Time Programmable ROM PROM Programmable ROM EPROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc. . The external memory may further include a flash driver for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an eXtreme Digital xD or a MemoryStick.

According to an embodiment the control unit which includes integrated circuitry such as a processor or microprocessor may load commands or data that are received from the non volatile memory or any other element in the volatile memory and process them. Additionally the control unit may store data that is created or received from other elements in the non volatile memory.

The memory may store therein various programs and data required for the operation of the user device . Specifically the memory may store a text message an email message a phonebook in which at least one phone number of each device in communication with the user device is mapped as a source identifier or the like.

The control unit may display a text message an email message or the like on the display unit using the programs and data stored in the memory . Also in response to a user gesture made on a certain region of the display unit the control unit may perform a control operation corresponding to the user gesture.

The control unit may include a RAM a ROM a CPU a GPU Graphic Processing Unit and a bus . The RAM the ROM the CPU and the GPU may be connected with each other through the bus .

The CPU accesses the memory and performs a booting procedure using O S Operating System stored in the memory . Then the CPU performs various operations using various executable code contents data or the like stored in the memory .

The ROM stores a set of commands for a system booting. For example when a turn on command is entered and thereby electric power is supplied the CPU copies the O S stored in the memory onto the RAM according to a command stored in the ROM and then boots the system by executing the O S. When the booting is completed the CPU copies selected executable code stored in the memory onto the RAM and then performs a corresponding operation by executing the code. When the booting of the user device is completed the GPU controls an activated region from among a main region and a sub region to display a User Interface screen. Specifically using a calculating part not shown and a rendering part not shown the GPU may create a screen that contains therein various objects such as icons images text and the like. Based on the layout of a screen the calculating part calculates attribute values of the objects to be displayed such as coordinate values shapes sizes and colors. Based on the attribute values the rendering part creates a screen containing objects and having a specific layout selected from various layouts. This screen is provided to the display unit and displayed on a selected region of the display unit .

The GPS chip is an integrated circuit configured to receive GPS signals from GPS satellites and to calculate a current position of the user device based on the received GPS signals. When a navigation program is used or in case a user s current location is needed the control unit may receive a user s location by using the GPS chip .

The communication unit is configured to perform a communication with various kinds of external devices depending on various communication types. The communication unit includes but not limited to a Wireless Fidelity WiFi chip a Bluetooth chip a wireless communication chip and a Near Field Communication NFC chip . Using the communication unit the control unit performs a communication with various external devices.

The WiFi chip and the Bluetooth chip include integrated circuitry configured to perform a communication based on WiFi technique and Bluetooth technique respectively. In case of using the WiFi chip or the Bluetooth chip the communication unit may first transmit and receive various kinds of connectivity information such as SSID and a session key to and from an external device then connect with the external device on the basis of the connectivity information and then transmit and receive various types of information to and from the external device. The wireless communication chip performs a communication based on various communication standards such as IEEE standards Zigbee 3rd Generation 3G a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and the like. The NFC chip operates based on NFC technique using 13.56 MHz from among various RF ID frequency bands such as 135 kHz 13.56 MHz 433 MHz 860 960 MHz 2.45 GHz and the like.

The video processor comprises hardware such as integrated circuitry that is configured to process video data contained in contents received through the communication unit or stored in the memory . The video processor may perform various types of image processing for video data such as decoding scaling noise filtering frame rate conversion resolution conversion and the like. The video processor may be coupled with the communication unit the memory etc. through the bus .

The audio processor includes hardware such as integrated circuitry that is configured to process audio data contained in contents received through the communication unit or stored in the memory . The audio processor may perform various types of processing for audio data such as decoding amplification noise filtering and the like. The audio processor may be coupled with the communication unit the memory etc. through the bus .

With continued reference to when a suitable playback program for multimedia contents is executed the control unit may drive the video processor and the audio processor and thereby play such contents. At this time the speaker unit may output audio data created by the audio processor .

The user input unit may receive various commands from a user. The user input unit may include but not be limited to at least one of a key a touch panel and a pen recognition panel . It is also within the scope of the disclosure that the user input and display unit can be a single touch display.

The key may include various types of keys virtual keys or may be actual such as a mechanical button or a wheel formed at certain places on the front rear and lateral sides of the user device .

The touch panel may detect a user s touch input and then output a touch event value corresponding to the detected touch input. In case the touch panel is combined with the display panel to form a touch screen the touch screen may be realized using various types of touch sensors such as a capacitive type a resistive type or a piezoelectric type. The capacitive type uses dielectric material coated on the surface of the touch screen and calculates touch coordinates by sensing an electric current excited to a user s body when a user touches the surface of the touch screen. The resistive type uses two electrode plates embedded in the touch screen and calculates touch coordinates by sensing the flow of an electric current through contact between the plates at a touch point when a user touches the screen. A touch event occurring on the touch screen may be created in response to a user s finger or any other conductive object.

The pen recognition panel may sense a touch or proximity input of a user s touch pen e.g. a stylus pen or a digitizer pen and thereby output a pen touch or proximity event. For example the pen recognition panel may be realized in the manner of EMR and sense a touch or proximity input depending on a variation in strength of an electromagnetic field caused by a touch or proximity of the pen. Specifically the pen recognition panel may be formed of an electromagnetic induction coil sensor not shown having a grid structure and an electronic signal processor not shown sequentially offering an alternating current signal having a certain frequency to each loop coil of the electromagnetic induction coil sensor. If there is a pen having a resonance circuit around a loop coil of the pen recognition panel a magnetic field transmitted from the loop coil will generate an electric current based on a mutual electromagnetic induction to the resonance circuit in the pen. Based on this generated electric current an induction magnetic field is generated from a coil of the resonance circuit in the pen. Then the pen recognition panel detects this induction magnetic field from the loop coil being in a signal reception state and thereby senses a touch or proximity location of the pen. The pen recognition panel may have the area capable of covering a display region of the display panel under the display panel .

The microphone unit is configured to receive a user s voice or any other sound and then convert it into audio data. The control unit may output a user s voice entered through the microphone unit in a call process or store converted audio data pertaining to the voice in the memory .

The camera unit is configured to take a still image or record a moving image according to a user s manipulation. The camera unit may be formed of a front camera and a rear camera. In an embodiment for a user s eye tracking the camera unit may be used as way to receive a user s image.

In case the camera unit and the microphone unit are formed in the user device the control unit may perform a control operation in response to a user s voice entered through the microphone unit or a user s motion recognized by the camera unit . Namely the user device may operate in a motion control mode or a voice control mode. In case of operating in a motion control mode the control unit activates the camera unit to capture a user s image and track a user s motion and performs a corresponding control operation. In case of operating in a voice control mode the control unit analyzes a user s voice entered through the microphone unit and performs a control operation in response to the analyzed voice.

In the user device that supports a motion control mode or a voice control mode a voice recognition technology or a motion recognition technology may be used in the above discussed various embodiments. For example if a user takes a motion of selecting a certain object displayed on the home screen or says a voice command corresponding to the object the user device may determine that the object is selected and then perform a control operation matched to the object.

The motion sensing unit is configured to sense a motion of the user device that may be rotated or tilted in various directions. The motion sensing unit may sense motion features such as a rotation direction angle or tilt by using various sensors such as a geomagnetic sensor a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor and the like.

Although not shown in the user device may further include a USB port for a connection with a USB connector various external input ports for connections with various external terminals such as a headset a mouse a LAN etc. a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB chip for receiving and processing DMB signals various sensors and the like depending on embodiments.

In addition the names of the above discussed elements of the user device may also be changed. Also the user device may be formed by inherently or optionally including at least one of the above discussed elements and by additionally including any other element.

Referring now to the memory may store therein an operating system OS programs applications and data. The OS is configured to control resources of the user device and may include a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and the like. For example Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen or Bada may be used as the OS.

The kernel may include at least one of a device driver or a system resource manager which may manage resources. The device driver may control hardware of the user device by access with code. For example the device driver may be divided into an interface and an individual driver module offered by each hardware manufacturer. The device driver may include for example at least one of a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver an audio driver or an Inter Process Communication IPC driver. The system resource manager may include a process manager a memory manager or a file system manager. The system resource manager may perform a function to control allocate or recover system resources.

The middleware may include a plurality of modules formed in advance to offer a function required in common for various applications. The middleware may offer a necessary function through the API such that the application may effectively use resources of the user device e.g. a CPU a GPU etc. . The middleware may include for example at least one of modules such as an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

With continued reference to the application manager may manage a life cycle of the application . The window manager may manage a GUI resource used in the screen. The multimedia manager may realize the format required for playback of various media files and then using a codec suitable for the format perform encoding or decoding of the media file. The resource manager may manage a resource such as a source code a memory or a storage space of the application . The power manager may manage a battery or a power source by operating with BIOS or the like and also offer power information required for operation. The database manager may create search or modify database to be used in the application . The package manager may install or update the application distributed in the form of a package file. The connectivity manager may manage a wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify any event such as an arrival message a promise or a proximity notification in a manner of not disturbing a user. The location manager may manage location information of the user device . The graphic manager may manage graphic effects to be offered to a user and associated user interfaces. The security manager may offer any security function required for a system security or a user authentication. In case the user device has a call function the middleware may further include a call manager not shown for managing a voice or video call function.

The middleware may further include a runtime library or other library modules not shown . The runtime library is a library module used by a compiler to add a new function through a programming language while any application is executed. For example the runtime library may perform a function of input output memory management or arithmetical computation. The middleware may create and use a new middleware module through various combinations of functions of the above discussed internal element modules. Also the middleware may offer a specified module according to the type of the OS so as to provide a differentiated function. In addition the middleware may dynamically remove some of existing elements or add new elements. It is therefore possible to selectively omit any element disclosed herein to add any other element or to replace any element with another performing a similar function.

The API is a set of API programming functions and may be offered as a different configuration according to the OS. In case of Android or iOS a single API set may be provided for each platform. In case of Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The application may include a preloaded application installed as a default or a third party application arbitrarily installable by a user. The application may include for example at least one of a home application used for returning to the home screen a dialer application used for dialing a call a text message application e.g. an SMS Short Message Service application or an MMS Multimedia Message Service application used to receive a message from a sender device identified by a phone number an IM Instant Message application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a phonebook application used for managing phone numbers or addresses of opponent devices a call log application used for managing a call log a received transmitted message log a missed call log etc. an email application used for receiving a message from a sender device identified by an email a calendar application a media player application an album application or a clock application . The name of each of the above discussed software elements may be varied according to the type of the OS. Also software disclosed herein may be formed of at least one of the above discussed elements without some elements or with additional elements.

Referring now to the control unit may control the email application to receive an email message from any external device through the communication unit . In case the email application receives an email message the user device may be in logged in state with a mail server not shown that sends an email message. Login is a procedure in which a user accesses the mail server by using an ID and a password both of which are preregistered in the mail server. The mail server may require a login procedure whenever the user device requests an email message or may offer an email message without requiring again a login procedure during a certain time period once a login procedure is performed successively.

Meanwhile if the user device is not in a login state to the mail server the user device may display a popup message or screen requesting a login procedure when any email message is received. For example a login screen may contain fields for entering an ID and a password to access the mail server.

After the reception of an email message is completed the user device may perform a logout procedure for disconnecting with the mail server. This logout procedure may be performed in response to a user s request or be automatically performed without a user s intervention when no email message is received for a predetermined time.

The control unit may control the email application to extract from the received email message at least one of a phone number option information and body content. For example if the subject of an email message contains a phone number the email application may extract the phone number from the subject of the email message. If the body content of an email message contains a predefined phrase e.g. a caller number together with a phone number the email application may extract the phone number recorded near the phrase. If any email message has option information the email application may extract the option information. Such option information may be information that indicates at least one of urgency reply requested and importance about an email message. If no option information is contained in an email message the email application may extract option information from the body content or subject of the email message. Additionally the control unit may control the email application to create a source identifier which may contain a source identifier value that indicates a source of a phone number a body content or option information. The creation of a source identifier may be performed before the extraction of a phone number option information and body content.

Next the control unit may control the email application to transmit at least one of the extracted phone number body content option information and source identifier to both the text message application and the call log application which identifies a sender device by a phone number. Here transmission of data from an application to other applications may be realized using the API offered by the OS.

The control unit may control the text message application to receive at least one of a phone number a body content option information and a source identifier from the email application . Also the control unit may control the call log application to receive at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier from the email application . Based on a source identifier value the text message application and the call log application may determine the source of the received phone number or message and or a call type of a received phone number and or a received transmitted type of a message. For example a source identifier value 1 may indicate the transmission of a call and a source identifier value 2 may indicate the reception of a call. Also a source identifier value 3 may indicate the transmission of a text message a source identifier value 4 may indicate the reception of a text message and a source identifier value 5 may indicate the transmission of a video. A source identifier value 8 may indicate the transmission of an email message and a source identifier value 9 may indicate the reception of an email message.

With continued reference to next the control unit may control the text message application to store at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier in a predefined type. Also the control unit may control the call log application to store at least one of a phone number option information and a source identifier in a predefined type. For example the control unit may control storing at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier in parts of the memory based on a predefined type to be created searched or modified by the text message application or the call log application .

Referring now to the control unit may control the email application to receive an email message to extract at least one of a phone number option information and body content from the received email message and to create a source identifier. Next the control unit may control the email application to transmit at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier to the middleware .

The middleware may receive at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier. Next the middleware may scan an application that may receive at least one of a phone number body content option information or source identifier. For example the middleware may broadcast an attribute length etc. of data associated with at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier to respective applications installed in the user device . Then the middleware may receive from at least one application a response signal that indicates the ability to receive at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier. For example the middleware may receive a response signal from the text message application or the call log application . If the text message application generates a response signal the control unit may control the middleware to transmit at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier to the text message application . Also if the call log application generates a response signal the control unit may control the middleware to transmit at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier to the call log application .

The control unit may control the text message application to receive at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier from the middleware . Also the control unit may control the call log application to receive at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier from the middleware . Next the control unit may control the text message application to store at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier in a predefined category or type. Also the control unit may control the call log application to store at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier in a predefined type.

Referring now to the control unit may control email applications A B and C to receive A B and C email messages respectively. Also the control unit may control the third application to receive email messages received by the email applications A B and C. The third application which is realized for operation in one embodiment of the present disclosure may be an application that comprehensively manages information about email messages received from several types of email applications A B and C to be delivered to a call application. Next the control unit may control the third application to extract at least one of a phone number option information and body content from at least one of the received email messages and to create a source identifier. Here the source identifier may have different source identifier values depending on types of the email applications A B and C which are sources of the email messages. Next the control unit may control the third application to transmit at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier to the text message application or the call log application .

Next the control unit may control the text message application to receive at least one of a phone number a body content option information and a source identifier from the third application . Also the control unit may control the call log application to receive at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier from the third application . Next the control unit may control the text message application to store at least one of a phone number a body content option information and a source identifier in a predefined type. Also the control unit may control the call log application to store at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier in a predefined type.

Referring now to the control unit may control email applications A B and C to receive A B and C email messages respectively. Also the control unit may control the third application to receive email messages received by the email applications A B and C. Next the control unit may control the third application to extract at least one of a phone number an option information and a body content from at least one of the received email messages and to create a source identifier. Next the control unit may control the third application to transmit at least one of a phone number a body content an option information and a source identifier to the middleware .

Then the middleware may receive at least one of a phone number a body content an option information and a source identifier. Next the middleware may scan an application that may receive at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier. As a result of scanning if the text message application generates a response signal the control unit may control the middleware to transmit at least one of a phone number body content option information and source identifier to the text message application . Also if the call log application generates a response signal the control unit may control the middleware to transmit at least one of a phone number an option information and a source identifier to the call log application .

Next the control unit may control the text message application to receive at least one of a phone number a body content an option information and a source identifier from the middleware . Also the control unit may control the call log application to receive at least one of a phone number option information and source identifier from the middleware . Next the control unit may control the text message application to store at least one of a phone number a body content an option information and a source identifier in a predefined type. Also the control unit may control the call log application to store at least one of a phone number an option information and a source identifier in a predefined type.

Referring now to a screenshot in the control unit may control the display unit to display thereon an execution screen e.g. an email creation screen of the email application . The email creation screen may contain a sender s mail address input field a recipient s mail address input field and a subject field . Also the email creation screen may contain a check box that selectively allows or disallows an email message to be delivered to a text message application of a sending device. And also the email creation screen may contain a body content field in which text to be delivered to a recipient is written. A user may select the check box such that an email message may be delivered to the text message application of a sending device.

Referring now to a screenshot in in response to a user s selection the control unit may control the display unit to display a check mark in the check box on the email creation screen . At this time the control unit may control the display unit to inactivate e.g. shade the subject field . Also the control unit may control the display unit to display a phone number allocated to the user device in the inactivated subject field . Alternatively the control unit may control the display unit to display a keypad not shown to be used for a user to directly enter the phone number in the subject field . Further a user may write a subject as well as the phone number in the subject field by manipulating the displayed keypad.

Referring to a screenshot in the control unit may control the display unit to display thereon an execution screen e.g. a message window of the text message application . The message window displays content of a received text message and content of a transmitted text message. The message window may correspond to a phone number of a sending device. For example the single message window may appear in connection with a single phone number. Alternatively in case a user invites two or more recipients in the single message window the single message window may display contents of several text messages received through phone numbers linked to such recipient devices.

The contents and of text messages may be displayed inside word bubbles and . Also source icons and which indicate that the contents and of text messages are received using the text message application may be displayed inside the word bubbles and . For example the control unit may control the display unit to display in the word bubbles and the source icons and SMS which indicate that the contents and of text messages are received using an SMS application as the text message application . The source icons and are not always displayed inside the word bubbles and and alternatively may be displayed near such contents and or around the word bubbles and .

Referring to a screenshot in in case the user device receives an email message the control unit may control the display unit to display in the message window a body content of the email message received through the email application . The body content of an email message may be displayed together with the contents and of text messages in the message window and also may be contained inside a new word bubble . In this case the control unit may control the display unit such that a source of the body content of an email message may be visually distinguished from sources of the contents and of text messages. For example in the word bubbles and the source icons and SMS which indicates that the contents and of text messages are received using an SMS application as the text message application may be displayed. Also in the word bubble a source icon Email which indicates that the body content of an email message is received using the email application may be displayed. The source icon may be displayed in any other form than shown. For example the source icon may be displayed near the body content or around the word bubble . Additionally the word bubble may be displayed to be visually distinguished from the word bubbles and .

Referring now to a screenshot in in case the user device receives an email message the control unit may control the display unit to display in the message window body content of the email message together with a source icon thereof received through the email application . In this case an option icon that indicates option information of an email message may be also displayed near the body content of the email message or around a word bubble . The option icon may be displayed in various forms depending on types of option information. For example if option information of an email message contains any information which indicates that the body content has a higher degree of urgency the control unit may control the display unit to display an option icon Urgent around the word bubble . If the option information contains any information which indicates a request for a reply to the body content the control unit may control the display unit to display the option icon Reply Requested around the word bubble . If option information contains any information which indicates that the body content has higher importance the control unit may control the display unit to display an option icon Important around the word bubble . Besides the color a brightness and or a size of the body content and or word bubble may be varied according to the types of option information. Also various visual effects such as animation or variable color may be applied to the body content and or the word bubble .

Referring now to a screenshot in the control unit may control the display unit to display in a message window a content of a text message received by the text message application and the body content of an email message received by the email application . In this case the control unit may control the display unit to further display an input field for receiving a user s reply to contents displayed in the message window . A user may select the input field .

Referring now to a screenshot in in response to the user s selection the control unit may control the display unit to display an input window for entry of text or contents an SMS Send button and an Email Send button . In this example the user types a mail confirmed message and then has the option. A user may enter outgoing content to be transmitted to a sender in the input window . After entry of the outgoing content a user may select at least one of the SMS Send button or the Email Send button so as to deliver text or contents in the input window to a sender. The SMS Send button is used to transmit the outgoing content displayed in the input window to a sending device through the text message application . The Email Send button is used to transmit the outgoing content displayed in the input window to a sending device through the email application . When a user select the Email Send button the control unit may control the text message application to receive the content displayed in the input window and also to transmit it to the email application . Then the email application may transmit the received content to a sender email application through a mail server. In this case the control unit may control the email application to be executed in the background without being displayed on the screen. After the outgoing content is transmitted an email message containing the outgoing content may be added to a sent item box of the email application . At this time the subject of the email message in the sent item box may automatically contain a phone number of the recipient.

Referring now to a screenshot in the control unit may control the display unit to display outgoing content in the message window . In case a user selects the SMS Send button outgoing content sent to the recipient may be displayed in the message window . This outgoing content may be contained in a word bubble and also a source icon which indicates that the outgoing content is sent through the text message application may be displayed near the outgoing content . For example the source icon may be displayed in or around the word bubble or near the outgoing content .

Referring now to a screenshot in in case a user selects the Email Send button outgoing content sent to the recipient may be displayed in the message window . This outgoing content may be contained in a word bubble and also a source icon email in this example which indicates that the outgoing content is sent through the email application may be displayed near the outgoing content . For example the source icon may be displayed in or around the word bubble or near the outgoing content .

Referring now to a screenshot in the control unit may control the display unit to display at least one of a received sent call log a received sent message log or a missed call log in an execution screen e.g. a call log screen of the call log application . For example a call log list containing therein at least one of received call logs and a sent call log a missed call log a sent message log and a received message log may be displayed in the call log screen . Further source icons indicating the sources of respective logs may be displayed in the call log screen . For example the source icons and having a shape of may be displayed at the call logs and and the missed call log which are generated in response to the execution of the dialer application . Also the source icons and having a shape of may be displayed at the message logs and which are generated in response to the execution of the text message application . Icons of this type let a user know at a glance what type of log is displayed and based on the arrows for example can determining if it is an incoming or outgoing call log message missed call log etc.

Referring to a screenshot in in case an email message is received or sent the control unit may control the display unit to display a received or sent email message log in the call log screen . For example a call log list containing therein a received email message log and a sent email message log as well as received sent call logs and and a received sent text message log may be displayed in the call log screen . Further source icons indicating the sources of the received sent email message logs and may be displayed in the call log screen . For example the email message logs and generated in response to the execution of the email application may have the source icons and having a shape of . Also received sent type icons and each of which indicates a received or sent email message log may be displayed at the email message logs and . For example a received type icon having a shape of may be displayed at the received email message log and a sent type icon having a shape of may be displayed at the sent email message log . Also the name nickname or image of a sender linked to a phone number may be displayed at each email message log or . For example if the subject of any email message corresponding to the email message log or contains a phone number the control unit may search the database of the phonebook application to find a sender s name corresponding to the phone number. Then the control unit may control the display unit to display sender s names and or or sender s images and corresponding to found phone numbers at the email message logs and .

Referring now to a screenshot in option icons and indicating option information of email messages corresponding to email messages and may be displayed in the call log screen . For example if an email message corresponding to the email message log has a higher degree of urgency an option icon Urgent may be displayed at the email message log . If a sender requests a reply to an email message corresponding to the email message log an option icon Reply Requested may be displayed at the email message log . Besides various visual effects such as changes in color size brightness flashing the background or the foreground etc. and or font may be applied to the email message logs and and or the source icons and according to types of option information.

Referring now to at operation the email application installed in the user device may receive i.e. receive an email message from an external device e.g. receive an email message from an external device through the communication unit . At operation the email application may extract at least one of a phone number body content and option information from the received email message. Then at operation the email application may create a source identifier that indicates a source of the extracted phone number a body content and or optional information. This source identifier may be created by the middleware or the application . At operation the call application installed in the user device may receive at least one of a phone number body content option information and a source identifier. For example the text message application may receive one or more of a phone number a body content an option information and a source identifier. Then at operation the call application may store at least one of the received phone number body content option information and source identifier in a predefined type. Additionally at operation the call application may display on the screen at least one of the stored phone number body content option information and source identifier.

Referring to at operation the email application installed in the user device may receive an email message from an external device. At operation the email application may extract a phone number and body content from the received email message. Then at operation the text message application installed in the user device then receives the extracted phone number and body content of an email message extracted by the email application. Also at operation the text message application may display in a message window corresponding to the extracted phone number the content of a text message received through the phone number and the body content of the email message. At this time the content of the text message and the body content of the email message in the message window may be displayed so as to be visually distinguished from each other. Next at operation the text message application may receive a user s input of outgoing content to be transmitted to a recipient. This outgoing content may be delivered from the text message application to the email application . At operation the text message application may display the outgoing content in the message window before or after the delivery of the outgoing content to the email application . At operation the email application may receive the outgoing content and then transmit it to a recipient device.

Referring now to at operation the email application installed in the user device may receive an email message from an external device. At operation the email application may extract a phone number from the received email message. Also at operation the email application may create an associated source identifier indicating the source of the extracted phone number. This associated source identifier may be created by the middleware or the application . At operation the call log application installed in the user device may receive the phone number and the associated source identifier. Then at operation the call log application may display in a log list the received phone number and a source icon associated with the associated source identifier. Before or after or simultaneously with operation the call log application may display at operation a received type icon indicating a received email message and or a sent type icon indicating a sent email message.

Referring now to the user device includes the memory and the control unit . Hereinafter the repetition of the same as described above will be avoided.

The memory may store therein various programs and data required for the operation of the user device . For example the memory may store therein the email application the text message application the call log application and the like.

The control unit may control the email application to receive an email message from a mail server not shown located at the outside of the user device . Also the control unit may control the text message application or the call log application to receive a phone number extracted from the email message and to receive an associated source identifier indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message. Next the control unit may control the memory to store therein the received phone number and the associated source identifier in a predefined type.

Referring to the user device includes the display unit the memory and the control unit . Hereinafter the repetition of the same as described above will be avoided.

The memory may store therein various programs and data required for the operation of the user device . For example the memory may store therein the email application the text message application the call log application and the like.

The control unit may control the email application to receive an email message from a mail server not shown located at the outside of the user device . Also the control unit may control the text message application or the call log application to receive a phone number extracted from the email message and an associated source identifier indicating that the phone number is extracted from the email message. Next the control unit may control the display unit to display thereon the received phone number and source identifier. For example the control unit may control the display unit to display the body content of the email message in a message window which corresponds to the received phone number and is offered by the text message application . Alternatively or additionally the control unit may control the display unit to display the received phone number and a source icon associated with the associated source identifier in a log list offered by the call log application .

Referring to at operation the user device may receive an email message from an external device. Then at operation the user device may extract a phone number from the received email message. Next at operation the call application installed in the user device may receive the extracted phone number and a source identifier indicating that the received phone number is extracted from the email message. Also at operation the user device may store at least one of the received phone number and an associated source identifier in a predefined type.

Referring to at operation the user device may receive an email message from an external device. Then at operation the user device may extract a phone number and body content from the received email message. Also at operation the user device may display the extracted body content in a message window which corresponds to the extracted phone number and is offered by the text message application .

Referring to at operation the user device may receive an email message from an external device. Then at operation the user device may extract a phone number from the received email message. At operation the call log application installed in the user device may receive the extracted phone number and an associated source identifier indicating that the received phone number is extracted from the email message. Also at operation the user device may display the received phone number and a source icon associated with the source identifier in a log list offered by the call log application .

According to various embodiments discussed hereinbefore since an email message is managed using a call application it is possible to comprehensively manage a text message and an email message. Also since a user is allowed to easily check an email message using a call application user s accessibility to an email message may be improved. And also even though a user is placed in a difficult situation to receive a call or a text message he or she may simply check a received email message through a call application.

The above described methods according to the present invention can be implemented in hardware or loaded into hardware such as a processor controller or that is stored on a non transitory machine readable medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and stored on a local non transitory recording medium so that the methods described herein are loaded into hardware such as a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware contain circuitry that may be integrated and can include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein via the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a controller processor or microprocessor constitute hardware in the claimed invention and include integrated circuitry. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101 and none of the elements constitute software per se. Nor is the invention a mere abstract idea.

The terms unit or module as may be used herein is to be understood as constituting or operating in conjunction with hardware such as a circuit integrated circuit processor or microprocessor configured for a certain desired functionality in accordance with statutory subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and such terms do not constitute software per se.

In addition the above discussed method is described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations of user interfaces methods and computer program products according to embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations may be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which are executed via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that are executed on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

And each block of the flowchart illustrations may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

While the present disclosure has been particularly shown and described with reference to an exemplary embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

