---

title: Disruption blocking in mobile devices
abstract: A do not disturb (DND) mode for telephonic devices, in which the DND mode is automatically deactivated after a time increment has elapsed, the DND mode having been activated based on detecting, upon receiving a telephone call, a selection of the control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357063&OS=09357063&RS=09357063
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09357063
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141107
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 854 644 on Apr. 1 2013 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 747 961 filed Jan. 23 2013 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 616 831 filed Sep. 14 2012 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 871 695 filed Oct. 12 2007. The disclosures of application Ser. Nos. 13 854 644 13 747 961 13 616 831 and 11 871 695 are each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Within recent memory mobile telephones have evolved from a rare curiosity into a widely available indispensable business tool and social necessity. Many people view the rapid development of these products as a general societal advance. As with other conveniences however many other people view these devices as a nuisance because they are capable of filling otherwise serene locales or moments of quiet reflection with annoying rings and inane conversation.

A user of a mobile device such as a cellular telephone may block intrusions for a time period by providing a do not disturb command to his or her device. Use of such a command may cause the device for a set time period to not bother the user when a call is incoming and to provide the caller with an indication of the user s activity. For example the device may inform the caller that the user will not be available until the end of the set time period. The device may provide on screen feedback when the device is in a do not disturb mode such as by providing a countdown of how much time is remaining before the device will revert to a normal mode.

According to one general implementation a method includes automatically deactivating a do not disturb DND mode after a time increment has elapsed the DND mode having been activated based on detecting upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control.

According to another general implementation a method includes detecting upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control and determining a time increment associated with the selected control. The method also includes activating a DND mode based on the selection and automatically deactivating the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the control may be a physical button or an on screen button on a device receiving the telephone call. Before receiving the telephone call the control may implement a first function and upon receiving the telephone call the control may implement a second function associated with activating the DND mode. Upon receiving the telephone call a user interface including the control may be generated. The time increment may be determined based on a number of times the selection of the control has been detected or the time increment may be user selectable.

In additional examples data indicative of the time increment may be transmitted to a call originator. Specifically a profile of the call originator may be accessed and it may be determined whether to send the data indicative of the time increment to the call originator based on the profile. The data indicative of the time increment may be transmitted to the call originator further based on determining whether to send the data indicative of the time increment to the call originator. The selection may be a user selection by a called party. The time increment may be a predetermined time increment or a dynamically determined time increment.

In further examples it may be determined whether an appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed the appointment including an appointment time and an appointment attendee. If the appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed a meeting delay may be determined based on comparing the time increment with the appointment time such that if the appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed data indicative of the determined meeting delay is transmitted to the appointment attendee. The data indicative of the determined meeting delay may be transmitted to the appointment attendee via a text message.

Moreover in additional examples in the DND mode a telephone ringer module may be set to off or vibrate the telephone call may be directed to voicemail or a device receiving the telephone call may be powered off or placed in a stand by or a hibernate mode. An indicator signal may be output based on activating or deactivating the DND mode. The DND mode may be manually deactivated before the time increment has elapsed. Detecting the selection of the control may further include detecting the selection of the control while a device is ringing. It may also be determined whether the time increment has elapsed. Detecting the selection of the control further may further include detecting an abrupt motion such as a slap a smack a shake or a flip using an accelerometer.

According to another general implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a machine readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to detect upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control and to determine a time increment associated with the selected control. The computer program product further includes instructions that when read by the machine operate to cause the data processing apparatus to activate a DND mode based on the selection and to automatically deactivate the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

According to another general implementation a device includes a input module and a processor. The input module is configured to detect upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control. The processor is configured to determine a time increment associated with the selected control to activate a DND mode based on the selection and to automatically deactivate the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

According to another general implementation a device includes means for detecting upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control and means for determining a time increment associated with the selected control. The device further includes means for activating a DND mode based on the selection and means for automatically deactivating the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

According to another general implementation a method includes determining a time increment associated with an event. The method also includes activating a do not disturb mode based on the event and automatically deactivate the do not disturb mode after the time increment has elapsed.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Generally a calling party or call originator caller or A party is a person that initiates a telephone call for example by dialing a telephone number. Conversely a called party or call recipient or callee is a person or device that receives a telephone call.

Telephone calls are generally placed through one or more networks such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PTSN provided by one or more traditional commercial telephone company or by a cellular network of base stations provided by a commercial mobile telephone company as extended in various ways such as by the Internet private cellular telephone networks and other such networks. A telephone call is initiated when a calling party dials or otherwise transmits a telephone number or other unique identifier of the called party. Through various mechanisms the network receives the unique identifier of the called party and generates the telephone call. The telephone call is received when the called party is alerted of the incoming call where the alert provides a user with the opportunity to answer or otherwise accept the telephone call. A telephone call is still received by the called party even if the called party elects to not answer or otherwise accept the telephone call.

Using a personal digital assistant that includes telephone or telephony capabilities Brian dials Sue s mobile phone at 2 22 01 pm. Tony who is using a computer is expecting to meet with Sue at 2 30 00 pm and is thus a external party or third party to the telephone call and an appointment attendee of the contemplated meeting with Sue. A user interface on Brian s personal digital assistant reflects the time and status of the outgoing or initiated telephone call.

A few seconds later after the telephone network processes the telephone number data transmitted by Brian Sue s mobile phone rings upon receiving the telephone call i.e. immediately or very soon after receiving the telephone call or on the occasion of receiving the telephone call .

When the telephone call is received at the mobile phone calling party information such as a telephone number picture or profile information of the calling party is displayed if available. For example the network or carrier that the mobile phone operates on may provide a caller identification caller ID or automated number identification ANI service that provides the telephone number and or other data identifying the call originator. Using this information the mobile phone may access and display other calling party information that may be stored on the phone . In for example the calling party information displayed on the mobile phone includes a picture of Brian.

Sue who is in a meeting and may not wish to be disturbed for in her best estimation at the time another twenty minutes touches 5 minute snooze control on the mobile phone . The control is a physical button that places the mobile phone into a temporary DND mode in a manner similar to how a snooze button deactivates an alarm on an alarm clock for a predetermined period of time. Thus the DND mode is activated based on detecting upon receiving a telephone call a selection of the control .

Because the control is a 5 minute snooze control associated with a five minute time increment and unlike snooze buttons on conventional alarm clocks Sue selects the control four times to set a DND time increment of twenty minutes. Because the control is a physical button Sue has the ability to select the control on the basis of feel for example while the mobile phone is ringing in her pocket or purse allowing her to quickly activate the DND mode without fumbling or otherwise requiring her undue attention. Similar touch based activation may occur for example where the phone is provided with an accelerometer and shaking smacking slapping flipping or jerking of the phone can indicate that the user wishes to invoke a DND command. The accelerometer input can represent different commands for different inputs. For instance a slap i.e. an abrupt or sharp blow to the mobile phone may cause a five minute DND time increment to be set a spin or flip may cause a ten minute DND time increment to be set or cause the mobile phone to enter a hibernate mode or a shake may cause the phone to enter a non temporary silent mode.

The activation of the DND mode modifies one or more preset or programmable behaviors of the mobile phone . For example when the DND mode is activated the ringer may be silenced all incoming calls may be blocked or directed to voicemail the mobile phone may be placed into vibrate hibernate or stand by mode or powered off or any other action may occur that absolutely or selectively minimizes disturbance of the mobile phone to Sue.

The device automatically deactivates the DND mode after the time increment selected by Sue which in this case is twenty minutes. Thus the DND mode is automatically deactivated after a time increment has elapsed.

On activating the DND mode the mobile phone determines whether to send data indicative of the time increment to Brian the calling party . In this example because Brian s stored profile indicates that he is a friend and thus has a sufficient permission level the mobile phone sends via short message service SMS or any other mechanism the personal digital assistant data indicating that Sue has activated the DND mode for another twenty minutes. A user interface on the personal digital assistant displays this data to Brian at time 2 22 15 pm.

In various configurations or based on data sharing settings the data indicative of the time increment can describe the duration of the selected time increment either vaguely or in detail or it can merely describe the activation of the DND mode. For example if Brian were a stranger or untrusted acquaintance to Sue the mobile phone may not send any data indicative of the time increment at all or may merely send data such as text data indicating or 

In certain situations a caller may be given an opportunity to break through to a callee. For example if the caller is part of a defined group of close friends the caller may respond to the message received from the callee in order to indicate to the callee that there is an emergency. Such a response may cause the callee to receive an SMS message or may cause the callee s phone to ring again perhaps with a different more urgent ring tone.

Upon checking a stored appointment calendar as triggered by activation of DND mode the mobile phone determines that Sue s selected time increment of twenty minutes will overlap an appointment at 2 30 00 pm that she has scheduled with Tony by approximately eighteen minutes. The appointment calendar is kept current when Sue enters her appointments directly into the mobile phone or when Sue synchronizes her telephone with other scheduling software such as MICROSOFT OUTLOOK scheduling software on her primary computing device. Sue s activation of DND mode may allow the phone to infer that Sue will be consumed in whatever she is currently doing throughout the DND period and will thus be unable to make the meeting with Tony on time.

The mobile phone determines whether to send data indicative of this determined meeting delay to Tony the appointment attendee and further determines what level type or accuracy of data should be sent as well. In this example because Tony s stored profile indicates that he is a business colleague and has the appropriate permission level the mobile phone sends via SMS the computer data indicative of the determined meeting delay.

If a contacts database for the phone contains only e mail contact information for Tony an e mail message may be sent. Rules may be established on phone to determine which mode of communication to use when multiple modes are available. Although Sue will be eighteen minutes late for the appointment the mobile phone rounds that meeting delay to fifteen minutes in the indication that is sent to Tony. Upward rounding may also be used in all situations or other rounding approaches may also be used.

At time 2 22 15 pm approximately 15 seconds after Brian s initial call was placed a user interface on Tony s computer displays a message indicating that Sue will be about fifteen minutes late for the meeting. Using the user interface Tony may elect to accept the delay by selecting a control or to cancel the meeting by selecting a control . When Tony selects the control the computer sends a message to the device indicating that the meeting has been cancelled as well as a personal message from Tony. This message is displayed via user interface on the mobile phone at time 2 22 20 pm.

Thus the mobile phone is provided with a physical or virtual button or control that when pressed one or more times causes a ringing phone to enter a temporary DND mode. The duration of this mode may be based on the number of times that the control is pressed and the time increment associated with the control or with other indications such as the length of time the button is hold down or which button out of several available buttons is pressed. During the period of time that the mobile phone is in this mode incoming calls may be directed to voicemail or the ringer may be turned off or placed in a silent or vibrate mode. Unlike other telephones which merely allow a user to silence a ringer permanently or until manually reactivated this enhanced mobile phone automatically deactivates the DND mode once the duration has elapsed.

Based upon a user profile the mobile phone may alert the call originator to the activation of the DND mode allowing the call originator to plan a future call. Furthermore the mobile phone may check a schedule of the called party to determine whether future appointments are scheduled before the duration of the DND mode elapses and alert a meeting participant or appointment attendee to the unavailability of the called party . Since the duration is manually selected by the called party based upon an expected delay length the called party may also manually deactivate the DND mode if the actual delay length turns out to be less than expected.

The called party device includes a processor for processing computer instructions an input module for receiving input from a user an output module for generating output to the user a telephony subsystem for provide voice or data communication by connecting the device to other telephonic devices over a network a contacts module for maintaining and managing profiles of the user of the device calling parties and other entities and a calendar module for maintaining and managing the schedule of the called party via direct entry of appointments or synchronization with other scheduling software.

In further detail the input module includes receives input from and or generates at least one control such as a physical button on screen control or an accelerometer based input that is capable of being automatically or manually selected. Among other components the output module includes a display which may be a touch screen display. The telephony sub system further includes a text message module that enables the device to send and receive text or SMS messages a voice module that enables the device to communicate voice data a ringer module that alerts the user of the device to incoming telephone calls through audio visual or tactile outputs and a voicemail module that enables the device to interact with and route incoming telephone calls to a carrier provided voicemail system.

Although further description of the calling party device and the appointment attendee device are omitted for the sake of brevity in many cases these devices will have similar components as the called party device such as a processor an input module and an output module . In the cases where the three devices are the same type of device compatibility is assured allowing communication between these devices to be deemed more reliable and further permitting more enhanced functions to be provided or enabled.

Finally in other implementations one or more of these devices may be omitted or the functions of disparate devices may be combined such as the case where the calling party is also the appointment attendee who is calling to confirm an upcoming appointment. In that case the functions of the calling party device and the appointment attendee device would be performed by one device. In addition certain of the functionality discussed here as being performed on a mobile device may also or alternatively be performed on a server that communicates with the device.

In more detail process begins S when upon receiving a telephone call a selection of the control is detected S . The selection of the control may be detected for example when a physical button or an on screen button on the device receiving the telephone call is selected by the called party.

When the ringer module alerts the user to the incoming telephone call the user may determine that they do not want to be interrupted by telephone calls for a certain period of time. Based upon a known or estimated duration that they should not be interrupted by the device the user may then select the control one or more times to specify a time increment or duration that the DND mode will be activated. The control may be selected before the device begins to ring while the device is ringing after the device has ceased ringing or while communicating on an accepted or answered telephone call.

In the case where the control is an on screen control or a soft physical button located adjacent to the display whose selection has different effects based upon software settings a user interface may be generated upon receiving the call. This user interface may include the control itself such as by defining a region of a touch screen as the control or the user interface may label or otherwise provide context to a physically adjacent soft button. By providing soft buttons to activate the DND mode it may be relatively easier to alter the time increments associated with each respective button since a physical button may also be physically labeled with and may thus be permanently constrained by an identified time increment.

Referring ahead briefly depicts a portion of the device surrounding a display in a state just before receiving a telephone call. The device includes soft buttons to whose function is determined based on a state of the software executing on the device . For instance before receiving the call the display displays adjacent to soft button adjacent to soft button and adjacent to soft button . In this state a selection of soft buttons to would implement a menu function a phone book function and a telephone call function respectively.

While the telephone call is being received for example when the device is ringing the selection of the soft button would not activate a phone book function but would rather cause the DND mode to be activated for a time increment of ten minutes. Thus before receiving the telephone call the control may implement a first function and upon receiving the telephone call the control may implement a second function associated with activating the DND mode.

Similar to the selection of a multi function soft physical button the control may be a physical button that has an commonly ascribed function at times other than during the reception of a telephone call and a function associated with the DND mode upon receiving the telephone call. Upon receiving an incoming telephone call for example the key may be associated with DND mode activation instead of the commonly ascribed function of outputting a space character.

Because the key the key or the keys are physically larger than most other keys and have a unique shape they would be easier for a user to locate and press quickly primarily using their sense of feel. The same may be true of buttons provided on the outside of a device such as on the device s edges or front face. In doing so the appropriate control could be selected without actually looking at or examining the device allowing the control to be selected while the user is in the dark or while the device is within a bag or item of clothing.

Instead of receiving a selection of a physical button however the mobile phone device receives a selection of an on screen control. In particular upon receiving the telephone call the mobile phone device generates a user interface that includes among other things information identifying the calling party and on screen controls to that are associated with 5 10 and 20 minute time increments respectively.

The called party selects the control by touching her finger or using another pointing device to select a portion of a touch screen display defined by the control causing the DND mode to be activated for a time increment of twenty minutes. Thus before receiving the telephone call the on screen controls to are not displayed at all but upon receiving the telephone call the on screen controls are generated for selection by the user.

Returning to a time increment associated with the selected control is determined S . The selection of the control or each selection of the control affects the duration that the DND mode is active. Therefore by associating a time increment with the control the user of the called party device may choose a control to select or choose a number of times to select the control based upon their knowledge or estimation of how long the DND mode should remain active. As such the user may choose a different control to select or may select a control a greater number of times as their estimate increases. The time increment may be user selectable or set able.

In one example the user may not wish to be disturbed by their called party device because they are in a meeting. When making an estimate regarding the duration that the DND mode should remain active the user take many factors into account such as the present time the scheduled meeting end time the personality of the people who are attending the meeting their desire to receive an interruption the importance of those who may be calling and the time increments associated with the controls. In another example where the device is ringing during a meeting or other important conversation the user may select the control one or more times just to silence the device knowing that they can deactivate the DND mode manually at a later more appropriate time.

In one example configuration the time increment associated with a control may be predetermined or fixed such as where a single physical button is associated with a six minute time increment. A called party device that utilizes this configuration may only allow the user to select this physical button once per time increment such that the DND mode resets at the end of each time increment or the user may be allowed to select this physical button multiple times to proactively set a longer time increment. For example the user may select the physical button three times to set an eighteen minute increment.

Alternatively each subsequent selection of the physical button may be associated with an increased or reduced time increment such that the first selection sets a six minute time increment the second selection adds an additional five minute time increment a third selection adds a four minute time increment et cetera. The time increment may be output as a signal from the control itself or the processor may query a look up table or other database to determine the appropriate time increment associated with the control based on any number of conditions.

In another example configuration the time increment associated with a control may be dynamically controlled either automatically or by a user selection. For instance the user can type the number 9 into a keypad and then select the control thereby setting a nine minute time increment. Additionally by selecting the control the called party device may determine the remaining time until the next appointment via the calendar module and set the time increment based on this remaining time.

In a further example configuration the user may select a setup option to associate different correlating or non correlating time increments with different soft keys. For example the user can assign a 31 second time increment a 1 minute time increment a 8 minute 37 second time increment and a 16 hour time increment to four different soft keys. Any of these approaches or other approaches for statically or dynamically manually or automatically associating a time increment with a control may be used.

A DND mode is activated based on the selection S . The DND mode changes one or more behaviors of the called party device . For instance in the DND mode a telephone ringer module may be set to off or vibrate the telephone call or subsequent calls may be directed to voicemail or the called party device may be powered off. The changed behaviors may be predetermined such as by manufacturer presets. The device may also provide on screen feedback when the device is in a do not disturb mode such as by providing a countdown of how much time is remaining before the device will revert to a normal mode.

Alternatively the user may be able to select particular behaviors to change when the DND mode is activated. Although in the above example the behaviors that are changed in the DND mode relate to making the called party device less disturbing or intrusive that is not necessarily always the case. For instance for various reasons the user may change the behavior of the called party device to be even more intrusive such as by raising the volume of the ringer or may change a behavior that does not effect the intrusiveness of the device such as by changing a menu font.

An indicator signal may be output based on activating the DND mode S . Since the activation of the DND mode may precipitously change the behavior of the called party device for example by transparently diverting all calls to voicemail the user may wish to be alerted when the DND mode is activated or may want to be able to determine whether the DND mode is activated based upon an indicator. Accordingly the activation of the DND mode may cause a confirmatory audio tone to be generated a light or other indicator to be displayed or cause the device to vibrate or otherwise interact with the user s tactile sense. In another example implementation however no indicator signal is generated.

Data indicative of the time increment may be transmitted to a call originator S . By sending data indicative of the time increment to the call originator the call originator receives an indication that the called party is unable or unwilling to receive calls and may further indicate when the called party estimates that they will again be available. In another general implementation data indicative of the time increment is not transmitted to the call originator or is selectively transmitted based on permissions of or the profile of the call originator.

For instance upon activating the DND mode the called party device may determine whether to send data indicative of the time increment to the calling party by accessing the profile of the calling party. If the profile indicates that the calling party has the appropriate permissions or access level the called party device transmits data to the calling party indicating that the called party has activated the DND mode.

As such the profile of the call originator is determined and it is also determined whether to send the data indicative of the time increment to the call originator based on the profile. The data indicative of the time increment is thus transmitted to the call originator further based on determining whether to send the data indicative of the time increment to the call originator. In this regard time increment data may be selectively provided to the calling party based upon the identity of the calling party.

In various implementations or based on data sharing settings the data indicative of the time increment can describe the duration of the selected time increment either vaguely or in detail or it can merely describe the activation of the DND mode. For example the data indicative of the time increment may merely indicate that the DND mode is active that the remaining time increment is 19 minutes 58 seconds that the remaining time increment is under one hour that the called party has selected the control three times or the data may provide a predetermined DND message.

Data indicative of a determined meeting delay may be transmitted to an appointment attendee S . The data indicative of the determined meeting delay may be transmitted to the appointment attendee via a text message such as by using text message module . It may be determined whether an appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed the appointment including an appointment time and an appointment attendee and if the appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed a meeting delay may be determined based on comparing the time increment with the appointment time such that if the appointment occurs before the time increment has elapsed data indicative of the determined meeting delay is transmitted to the appointment attendee.

For example upon checking the calendar module the called party device may determine that the selected time increment will overlap with the beginning of an appointment. After detecting the existence and magnitude of the overlap the called party device determines whether to send data indicative of this determined meeting delay to an appointment attendee using a similar permission or profile based approach as described above. If the appointment attendee s profile indicates that he has the appropriate permissions the called party device sends the appointment attendee data indicative of the determined meeting delay. In this regard meeting delay data may be selectively provided to meeting attendees based upon the identity of the meeting attendee.

After activating the DND mode S it is determined whether the time increment has elapsed S . If the time increment has not elapsed S the DND mode remains activated. If the time increment has elapsed S the DND mode is automatically deactivated S . By automatically deactivating the behaviors of the called party device are restored to their non DND mode settings without requiring the manual interaction of the user.

Since the duration of the DND mode is set at the time the DND mode is activated a user does not need to remember to manually deactivate the DND mode or worry that DND mode behaviors will persist if no action is taken. An indicator signal may be output based on activating or deactivating the DND mode S and the process ends S .

Since the duration of the DND mode may be based upon a time estimate such as the remaining time that a meeting that the called party is attending will last it may occur that the estimated time increment is incorrect. For instance the called party may believe that they will be in a meeting that will last for ten more minutes and should therefore not be disturbed for ten minutes and select a DND mode time increment of ten minutes by selecting a five minute control twice. If the meeting lasts for more than ten minutes the called party may discretely select the five minute control again based upon a new estimate of the remaining duration of the meeting.

If however the meeting lasts only for two additional minutes the DND mode would ordinarily remain active for another eight minutes if no further action is taken. If the called party wants the DND mode to end sooner than eight minutes they may select a control which may be the same control used to activate the DND mode to manually deactivate the DND mode. By deactivating the DND mode device behaviors associated with DND mode are also disabled nullified or returned to their normal operational settings. In essence the convenience of having a DND mode is combined with a snooze button functionality acting to temporarily alter distracting phone behaviors for a short time preventing these altered behaviors from permanently impact incoming calls.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements the various features described above is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor or processors configured to alert a user to an incoming call to receive an indication from the user that they do not want to be disturbed to place a device into a temporary DND mode in response to the user indication and to later take the device out of the DND mode.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker .

The display displays video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for putting the device into and out of a DND mode. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 6GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 6000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit. Alternatively the antenna may be internal to the device .

The wireless or wireline computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wireline or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 6.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wireline connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wireline connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 6 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS . The camera may also be associated with software to perform various functions on captured images.

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is one of a number of computer processors including. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that detect upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control determine a time increment associated with the selected control activate a do not disturb mode based on the selection and automatically deactivate the do not disturb mode after the time increment has elapsed.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE ANDROID operating system APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 8 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joing Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime which generally makes up a Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom JAVA compatible virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX as well as unmodified JAVA files .CLASS .JAR . With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries which generally make up the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs includes a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications which generally make up the MIDP applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a call handling DND application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

The persistent core system services such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager are hosted by system processes although application processes such processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent. The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and call handling DND processes associated with the call handling DND application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik JAVA virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

According to another general implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in a machine readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to detect upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control and to determine a time increment associated with the selected control. The computer program product further includes instructions that when read by the machine operate to cause the data processing apparatus to activate a DND mode based on the selection and to automatically deactivate the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

According to another general implementation a device includes a input module and a processor. The input module is configured to detect upon receiving a telephone call a selection of a control. The processor is configured to determine a time increment associated with the selected control to activate a DND mode based on the selection and to automatically deactivate the DND mode after the time increment has elapsed.

Various other actions by a mobile device in response to an incoming call may also be based in part on a current location of the device. For example if a user s work phone is located near the user s home and the user does not answer the caller may be provided with a message saying that the user is at home. Also if the caller is identified as a close acquaintance of the user such as in the user s contact list the caller may actual be told via synthesized speech the actual location of the user e.g. zip code town or even street address and the caller s device may launch a mapping application that shows the location. In addition a user may wish to use may receive poor wireless coverage at their home or elsewhere where another phone option is available e.g. because they live at the bottom of a hill or in the middle of a large building so that when an incoming call is received and the user is in such a non operative location that has other calling options the call may be automatically forwarded to the other options. As one example a user may have all calls coming into her cell phone forwarded to her land line connected business telephone wherever the cellular telephone recognizes that she is in the office. Such an approach may relieve the user of having to remember to manually institute call forwarding.

By a similar approach users may subscribe to one or more no ring zones. In particular areas may be prescribed by various groups in which telephones are not supposed to ring. For example churches theatres opera houses and other similar organizations may register their geographic coordinates with a web site that may aggregate all such coordinates in an area or throughout the country. Illegitimate requests for silence may be edited out by a moderator or by other mechanisms. Users who want to be polite may then visit such a site and have their device download or otherwise reference the list of registered no ring zones. For those user who register their telephones may be programmed to switch to vibrate mode or otherwise disable an audible ringer whenever the user passes into a no ring zone. Such a feature may also be turned off or otherwise disable by the user. Also a user may download a full list of no ring zones but may then edit the list such as through a graphical user interface on a map. For instance a user may initially download a global list of no ring zones and then invalidate a zone for a church that is immediately adjacent to their workspace or that shares a wall with a coffee shop that the user frequents for example.

Such location based responses to calls may also be combined with operator initiated responses to incoming calls like those discussed above. For example a caller may be played a generic voice mail message if a callee does not answer when at work as determined by GPS tracking in the callee s device . However if the callee presses a snooze button on the device slaps the device or otherwise issues a similar command to the device the caller may be provided with a different voice mail message. For example if the callee issues such a command their device may read to the caller whenever entry is currently in the callee s calendar. Such an occurrence may happen for example only if the callee s current location matches a location correspondence to the current appointment. In this manner if the callee sees that the caller is a stranger she can let the call roll into normal voice mail. If the callee sees that the caller is a friend she can let the caller know what she is currently doing so that the caller can more readily decide whether to leave a message or call back.

The automatic deactivation of a DND mode for a telephonic mobile phone device has been described above in various example as being based upon a receiving a telephone call as well as based upon a selection of a control. In a further implementation the DND mode may be activated upon the occurrence of an event other than a telephone call such as upon automatically determining that the callee is in a scheduled meeting or is disposed in a physical location where it is inappropriate to receive telephone calls such as a hospital movie theater conference room cemetery library or restaurant. In an additional implementation the DND mode may automatically determine a time increment without detecting a selection of a control such as by checking a callee s calendar or schedule to dynamically determine when the callee will be available to speak.

When the process starts S an event is used to trigger the activation of the DND mode. For instance a location entry event may be used to trigger the activation of the DND mode based upon proximity to the relative or absolute coordinates of the conference room the building that houses the conference room or the city that houses the building. Additionally a meeting begin event may be used to trigger the activation of the DND mode using information from the called party s calendar to determine that a meeting has begun for which the called party is a participant. A personal proximity event may be used to trigger the activation of the DND mode based upon proximity to the mobile phone devices of certain people such as Sue s boss or clients.

As the mobile device moves through various places a database of locations is accessed to determine whether the location entry event has occurred. This determination may be made continuously such as every few seconds or it may occur non periodically such as when a call is initially received. The database may be a static database such as a populated database of the geographic coordinates i.e. latitude and longitude of movie theaters hospitals houses of worship libraries cemeteries or other quiet zones or the database may be populated by the user. For instance if the user enjoys walking undisturbed in a particular park they may select a control labeled never receive calls at this location while on their walk to prevent the mobile device from receiving calls at that location in the future.

In an additional implementation the event may be a bad time begin event based upon learning the called party s phone habits. For instance if the user always rejects calls between 9 and 10 pm on Thursday nights the mobile device may map this behavior to a bad time begin event and prevent calls from being received during that time even thought the user may not have an appointment scheduled.

Any number of other events for myriad business and social contexts could be used to automatically trigger a DND mode. A time increment associated with the event is determined S and the DND mode is activated S . This time increment may be a preset time increment or a dynamically determined time increment based on an expected time when the called party will be able to use the mobile device . This time increment or a remaining time increment may be displayed on the user interface .

When as displayed in user interface the calling party Brian initiates a telephone call using personal digital assistant to call the mobile phone device of the called party Sue . As illustrated in a user interface rendered on the mobile phone device before or after the call is received the user interface indicating that a meeting is in progress an elapsed time since the DND mode was activated and a time remaining until the DND mode is automatically deactivated. If the DND mode were activated based on an event other than a meeting begin event another message may be displayed based on the context of the event activating the DND mode. For instance the user interface might display Quiet Zone Entered or VIPs are nearby if the triggering event were a location entry event or a personal proximity event respectively.

If the time increment has not yet elapsed S the DND mode remains activated. If the time increment has elapsed S the DND mode is automatically deactivated S and the process ends S .

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

