---

title: Method and apparatus for providing service
abstract: A mobile device and a method performed by the mobile device for receiving a service from a service providing apparatus are provided. The method includes receiving a signal which is emitted from the beacon apparatus, wherein the mobile device is located within vicinity of the beacon apparatus; determining an intensity of the received signal; requesting the service providing apparatus for a service based on the determined intensity; and receiving the service from the service providing apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338593&OS=09338593&RS=09338593
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09338593
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141229
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 631 161 filed on Sep. 28 2012 and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2011 0098937 filed on Sep. 29 2011 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for providing a service and more particularly to a method and apparatus for providing differentiated services to a terminal that has received a signal from a wireless transmitter receiver.

In order to provide wireless communication services a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN access point is installed. WLAN is a near field communication network within a predetermined distance from an installation location of an Access Point AP which is a wireless transmitter receiver. One such commonly used technique is Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi .

As sales of mobile devices involving a lot of information traffic such as smartphones tablet Personal Computers PCs mobile PCs etc. are increasing worldwide production of Wi Fi devices is rapidly increasing every year. In order to accommodate this trend wireless APs and or another wireless transmitters receivers for sending wireless signals e.g. a beacon are being installed in many locations.

Current wireless transmitters receivers provide wireless transmitter receiver services to mobile devices that are within a vicinity of the transmitters receivers.

The present invention provides a method and apparatus for providing differentiated services to a terminal according to a signal intensity of a signal that is sent from a wireless transmitter receiver and received by the terminal.

According to an aspect of the present invention a mobile device is provided. The mobile device includes a communication unit configured to receive a signal that is emitted from a beacon apparatus wherein the mobile device is located within vicinity of the beacon apparatus and a controller configured to determine an intensity of the received signal and request a service providing apparatus for a service based on the determined intensity wherein the communication unit is further configured to receive the service from the service providing apparatus.

According to another aspect of the present invention a method performed by the mobile device for receiving a service from a service providing apparatus is provided. The method includes receiving a signal which is emitted from the beacon apparatus wherein the mobile device is located within vicinity of the beacon apparatus determining an intensity of the received signal requesting the service providing apparatus for a service based on the determined intensity and receiving the service from the service providing apparatus.

The present invention will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description a detailed explanation of known related functions and constitutions may be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject matter of the present invention.

Referring to the location based service providing system includes a terminal and a server the terminal includes a positioning module and a mobile communication module and the server includes a platform module and an application module .

The positioning module checks a location of the terminal by using techniques such as cell IDentification ID determination enhanced cell ID determination triangulation such as Angle of Arrival AoA Time of Arrival ToA Time Difference of Arrival TDoA and or technologies such as Global Positioning System GPS Assisted GPS AGPS Differentiated GPS DGPS or Wireless Fidelity WiFi . However these positioning examples are non limiting and other such techniques may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

The mobile communication module performs communication between the terminal and the server . Mobile communication techniques used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may include Code Division Multiple Access CMDA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA and Personal Communication Service PCS . Additional mobile communication techniques related to near field communication in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may include WiFi and Bluetooth communications. However these mobile communication techniques are non limiting examples and other such mobile communication techniques may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

The platform module may include technologies such as server architecture storage indexing open Application Programming Interface API and security technologies. The server architecture technology is a location based processing technology based on location based functions such as obtaining a location from a location obtaining server in response to a terminal side location information request management of location information and processing of personal or collective location information tracing of movement paths etc. Herein storage technology refers to a technology for storing a large amount of information and managing the same. Indexing technology may refer to a technology for systemizing location information or its relevant information in optimized forms and configuring the same such that the information may be searched easily. Open API technology refers to a technology for connecting other service providers to provide location information and relevant information. Security technology refers to a technology for controlling access of users such as user profile management authorization or security. The structure of the platform module as illustrated in is provided an example and embodiments of the present invention is not limited thereto.

The application module includes applications with which location based services are provided to the terminal . Examples of applications included within the application module include map navigation information commerce health care tracing advertizing entertainment and health and safety applications. However other such applications may be included within the application module in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Referring to in step when a terminal enters a vicinity of a wireless transmitter receiver a service providing apparatus receives from the terminal information about the wireless transmitter receiver. The vicinity of the wireless transmitter receiver may be an area in which the wireless transmitter receiver can communicate with a terminal. The terminal receives a signal including unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver broadcast by the wireless transmitter receiver and address information of a server for services to the terminal. According to the present example according to embodiment of the present invention the wireless transmitter receiver may be a beacon or an AP. In the current embodiment the unique information of a wireless transmitter receiver may include at least one of a Media Access Control MAC address a Service Set IDentifier SSID and a Basic Service Set IDentifier BSSID . When receiving a signal from the wireless transmitter receiver the terminal detects a reception intensity of the received signal. Reception intensity may be in the form of a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI .

Thereafter the information about the wireless transmitter receiver including the unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver and reception intensity is transmitted to the service providing apparatus. Also the terminal may transmit IDentification ID information of the terminal to the service providing apparatus and when receiving the ID of the terminal the service providing apparatus stores the same. If it is possible to calculate a distance from the terminal to the wireless transmitter receiver according to signal intensity the terminal may transmit information indicating the calculated distance.

In step the service providing apparatus determines differentiated services according to information about the wireless transmitter receiver. The service providing apparatus determines differentiated services according to the unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver and or signal intensity included in the information about the wireless transmitter receiver. The signal intensity is reference information based on which a distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and the terminal may be calculated. Accordingly the service providing apparatus provides differentiated services to the terminal according to the distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and the terminal. Therefore the terminal may receive not just a simple service but differentiated services according the distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and the terminal. Services may include information such as contents or service Uniform Resource Locators URLs . Other such information and or services may be provided in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Referring to the table includes an RSSI field which indicates signal intensity and a service item field showing services to be provided according to the signal intensity. For example when a signal intensity of a signal received by the service providing apparatus is 80 dBm n is 120

If the service providing apparatus receives distance information directly from the terminal differentiated services may be provided to the terminal according to distance information.

In step the service providing apparatus provides the determined services to the terminal. The service providing apparatus may provide a service directly to the terminal according to ID of the terminal or the service providing apparatus may provide the service to the terminal via a wireless transmitter receiver based on unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver.

Alternatively if the ID of the terminal that has received a service according to the method of is stored in the service providing apparatus differentiated services may also be provided by the service providing apparatus even when the terminal has not entered the vicinity of the wireless transmitter receiver.

Referring to a first terminal a second terminal a third terminal and a fourth terminal receive an SSID a MAC address and or an other address of a server . The first terminal the second terminal the third terminal and the fourth terminal measure the RSSI of signals received from an AP . Signal intensities of the signals received by the first terminal the second terminal the third terminal and the fourth terminal are 60 dBm 120 dBm 180 dBm and 200 dBm respectively. The first terminal the second terminal the third terminal and the fourth terminal transmit the SSID or MAC address received from AP the measured RSSI and IDs of the first through fourth terminals through to the servicer according to the received server address. After transmitting this information the server provides differentiated services that is Contents A 0 Contents A 1 Contents A 2 and Contents A 3 to the first terminal the second terminal the third terminal and the fourth terminal . A fifth terminal which has previously received a service from the server may subsequently receive services from the server even when the fifth terminal is not in the vicinity of the AP .

Referring to a solid line arrow denotes information being transmitted from a terminal to the server and a dotted line arrow denotes a service provided from the server to a terminal.

Referring to the service providing apparatus includes a communication unit a control unit and a storage unit . The service providing apparatus is connected to a terminal via a predetermined network. Also the service providing apparatus may be connected to a wireless transmitter receiver via a predetermined network.

The communication unit receives from the terminal information about the wireless transmitter receiver which the terminal entered the vicinity of the wireless transmitter receiver . The terminal receives a signal including unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver broadcast by the wireless transmitter receiver and address information of a server that is to provide a service that is of a service providing apparatus. According to the current example according to an embodiment of the present invention the wireless transmitter receiver may be a beacon or an AP. In the current example unique information of a wireless transmitter receiver may include at least one of a MAC address an SSID and a BSSID. When receiving a signal from the wireless transmitter receiver the terminal detects a reception intensity of the received signal. Reception intensity may be reported in the form of an RSSI. After the reception intensity is detected the information about the wireless transmitter receiver including the unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver and reception intensity is transmitted to the service providing apparatus . The terminal may also transmit ID of the terminal to the service providing apparatus and when receiving the ID of the terminal the control unit stores the received ID. If it is possible to calculate a distance from the terminal to the wireless transmitter receiver according to signal intensity the terminal may transmit information indicating the calculated distance.

The control unit determines differentiated services according to information about the wireless transmitter receiver . The control unit determines differentiated services according to the unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver and or signal intensity included in the information about the wireless transmitter receiver . The signal intensity is reference information based on which a distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and the terminal may be calculated. Accordingly the service providing apparatus provides differentiated services to the terminal according to the distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and the terminal . In the current example the terminal may receive not just a simple service but differentiated services according the distance between the wireless transmitter receiver and to the terminal . Services may include contents and or a service URL. However these services are merely listed as examples and other services may be provided in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

The services provided according to the distance may be provided according to the table of in a manner similar to that explained herein with reference to the operations corresponding to .

If the communication unit receives distance information directly from the terminal the control unit provides differentiated services to the terminal according to distance information.

The control unit may provide a service directly to the terminal according to ID of the terminal or provide a service to the terminal via the wireless transmitter receiver based on the unique information of the wireless transmitter receiver .

Alternatively if the terminal has previously received a service as described herein above the ID of the terminal is stored in the storage unit and the control unit may provide differentiated services even when the terminal is not within the vicinity of the wireless transmitter receiver .

The embodiments of the present invention may include computer readable codes on a computer readable recording medium. Such a computer readable recording medium may include any data storage device that can store data that can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of such a computer readable recording medium include Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM Compact Disc CD ROMs magnetic tapes floppy disks optical data storage devices etc. Such a computer readable recording medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Functional programs codes and or code segments which may be used in implementing embodiments of the present invention can be easily construed by programmers of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims. The embodiments should be considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Therefore the scope of the invention is defined not by the detailed description of the invention but by the appended claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present invention.

