---

title: Modular tablet case
abstract: A tablet computer with modular assembly having interchangeable end cap portions, and a method for installing the same. The assembly provides a universal design and customized features to a range of tablets. The modular assembly has a tablet carrier encasing a selected type of tablet computer and an exterior housing enclosing the tablet carrier. The exterior housing contains at least one battery and a controller for communication with the selected tablet computer. The housing also includes end cap portions configured to communicate with the controller and implement a function. The end caps can be interchanged. The tablet carrier and/or exterior housing can also include one or more programmable buttons with actuators for electromechanically actuating a button or an application associated with the tablet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652002&OS=09652002&RS=09652002
owner: MOBELISK GROUP, LLC
number: 09652002
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140516
---
This patent application claims priority to provisional patent application 61 824 336 filed on May 16 2013 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure is generally related to a modular assembly or case for an electronic device such as a tablet.

Covers for electronic devices such as cell phones and tablets are known. For those electronic devices with a touch screen covers typically include an opening providing access to the screen. Some covers also have parts e.g. holes or press buttons that correspond and align with a position of the devices e.g. ports or buttons on the tablet to allow mechanical access to the tablet devices. Some manufacturers may also limit themselves entirely to plastic enclosures for purely esthetic and rudimentary protective purposes.

It is an aspect of this disclosure to provide a modular case assembly for a selected range of tablet computers. The modular assembly includes a tablet carrier encasing a selected tablet computer selected from the range of tablet computers. The selected tablet computer has a length a width one or more ports and an external button configuration. Also an exterior housing encloses the tablet carrier and has at least one battery and a controller for communication with the selected tablet computer. An end cap is attached to the exterior housing and includes a functional device in communication with the controller by a connector. The tablet carrier has internal surfaces for retaining the selected tablet computer while still providing access to the one or more ports and the external button configuration of the selected tablet computer. The at least one battery and the controller contained by the exterior housing are operatively connected to one or more ports of the tablet computer so as to allow communication of power and data between the controller the tablet computer and the functional device of the end cap.

Another aspect provides a method for installing a plurality of modular assemblies to a plurality of tablet computers having varying lengths and or widths and one or more ports and button configurations. The method includes providing a plurality of first tablet carriers that are each configured to encase a first type of tablet computer when the carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers providing a plurality of second tablet carriers that are each configured to encase a second type of tablet computer when the carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers the second type of tablet computer being different than the first type of tablet computer wherein the plurality of the first and the second tablet carriers each have internal surfaces for retaining the respective first and second types of tablet computers while still providing access to the one or more ports and buttons of the first and second types of tablet computers when the first and second tablet carriers are installed therearound providing a plurality of common exterior housings that are each configured to enclose the first and second tablet carriers once the first and second tablet carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers each exterior housing having at least one battery and a controller for communication with its corresponding tablet computer providing a plurality of end caps configured for attachment to the plurality of common exterior housings and including a functional device for communication with the controller by a connector and wherein the method further includes installing the first tablet carriers on the first type of tablet computers installing the second tablet carriers on the second type of tablet computers and installing the common exterior housings to enclose the first and second tablet carriers therein with the respective first and second types of tablet computers installed installing the end caps on the common exterior housings and establishing communication between the controllers and the functional devices wherein the installing of each of the common exterior housings includes operatively connecting the at least one battery and the controller to one or more ports of each of the corresponding tablet computers so as to allow communication of power and data between the controllers the corresponding tablet computers and the functional devices of the end caps.

Yet another aspect provides an encased tablet computer system including a tablet computer a tablet carrier and an exterior housing. The tablet computer has a length a width one or more ports and an external button configuration. The tablet carrier encases the tablet computer. The exterior housing encloses the tablet carrier and at least one battery and a controller for communication with the tablet computer. An end cap is attached to the exterior housing and includes a functional device in communication with the controller by a connector. The tablet carrier has internal surfaces for retaining the tablet computer while still providing access to the one or more ports and the external button configuration of the tablet computer. The at least one battery and the controller contained by the exterior housing are operatively connected to one or more ports of the tablet computer so as to allow communication of power and data between the controller the tablet computer and the functional device of the end cap.

Still yet another aspect provides a method for automatically monitoring and charging a tablet computer enclosed within a modular case assembly. The modular assembly comprises a tablet carrier encasing the tablet computer the tablet computer having a length a width one or more ports a tablet battery an external button configuration and an exterior housing enclosing the tablet carrier. The exterior housing comprises at least one case battery and a controller for communication with the tablet computer and at least one end cap attached to the exterior housing and including a functional device in communication with the controller by a connector. The tablet carrier has internal surfaces for retaining the tablet computer while still providing access to the one or more ports and the external button configuration of the tablet computer. The at least one case battery and the controller are contained by the exterior housing and operatively connected to one or more ports of the tablet computer so as to allow communication of power and data between the controller the tablet computer and the functional device of the at least one end cap. The method includes automatically monitoring a state of charge of the at least one case battery automatically monitoring a state of charge of the tablet battery and automatically charging the tablet battery using the at least one case battery.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Disclosed herein is a modular assembly that is a universal case for different types of tablet computers and that brings modular functionality to those different tablets. As further described in detail below the case includes interchangeable end caps that provide a function for implementation on or with the tablet computer. Each modular assembly can also include at least one programmable button that uses electromechanical actuation to actuate a button or function associated with the tablet computer. This disclosure also provides a method for installing modular assemblies around tablet computers despite the tablet computer design and configuration.

Referring now more particularly to the drawings show an electronic device with a modular case assembly or smartcase or modular assembly which terms may be used interchangeably throughout this disclosure having interchangeable end cap portions. The electronic device shown is a tablet computer. The tablet computer can be any type of tablet computer and is not limited by brand design size or operating system. This includes but is not limited to phablets i.e. mobile devices designed to combine smartphone and tablet functions. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the tablet computer has a core CPU providing tablet hardware set core operating system and the ability to add customize software applications tailed to specific use cases. Tablet computers lack integrated physical keyboards and use the touchscreen interface for user interaction which may include a virtual keyboard displayed on the touchscreen. This differentiates tablet computers from laptops or other electronic devices where a physical keyboard is attached or needed for user typing. Touch screen sizes may be approximately five inches e.g. 5.1 to approximately twelve inches e.g. 12.1 for example. In some cases the screens are smaller approximately four to seven inches or larger.

For example the tablet computer can be a media tablet such as those available on the market e.g. Google Nexus 7 Apple iPad Apple iPad Mini Amazon Kindle Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 3 4 Pro 7 8 8.4 or 10.1 or Galaxy Note 8.0 or later manufactured for sale or a custom designed tablet engine computer. Communication capabilities e.g. Bluetooth GPS LTE WiFi functionality can be provided in the tablet computer. Further the operating system OS associated with the tablet computer can be any number of operating systems including but not limited to Android based iOS and Windows Mobile and the software associated with the tablet computer is unlimited. The tablet computer has a touch screen e.g. projected capacitive type touch screen with 5 points touch controller and can include any number of sensors associated therewith. Further the tablet computer has a power source or a battery therein a power switch for on off and suspend resume functions as well as one or two volume keys for example. Other devices such as LEDs camera s flash etc. can also be provided in the tablet computer.

Accordingly the term tablet computer is used throughout this disclosure to describe electronic devices such as tablets or phablets or pads with touch screens or other such electronic devices without limiting a type brand and or features of such devices.

As generally understood tablet computers can have varying lengths and or widths varying camera locations if at all and one or more ports e.g. input and or output and external button configurations. The modular assembly as described herein is configured for installation and use with any of such devices.

The tablet carrier sometimes also referred to herein as an interposer interconnects with the selected tablet computer being utilized. The tablet carrier has a top portion and a bottom portion that are connected and secured together. The top portion and the bottom portion of each tablet carrier are each formed to have a length and a width suitable to support any number of tablet computers. Generally the tablet carrier acts as a support for a range or a variety of consumer tablet computers ranging in size from about five inches to about ten inches although it is not limited to such examples. In an embodiment the tablet carrier is formed to support a pre selected tablet computer. For example each tablet carrier can act as an internal sleeve for containing a selected type of tablet e.g. a particular brand of a particular size or dimension with a particular operating system and CPU . In an embodiment the tablet carrier provides access to the one or more ports and the external button configuration of the selected tablet computer.

As will be discussed in more detail below the tablet carrier has an internal configuration that can vary between different carriers to fit interface properly with different tablet computers but their external configuration is constant so as to fit interface with other parts of the assembly external to it e.g. exterior housing . Thus different internal carriers can be used with common external parts to make the overall assembly modular.

Top portion of the tablet carrier interposer includes a peripheral top wall defining a window having top surface and a bottom surface and an opening for providing access to the touch screen of the tablet computer . The top portion may also include an aperture not shown for a front facing camera of the tablet computer so as to allow for functional operation of a front facing camera. The bottom surface is aligned with and placed over the top of the tablet computer and adjacent to its touch screen . Top portion can also include one or more side walls extending downwardly from the peripheral top wall that are sized to surround a portion of the tablet computer .

Bottom portion of the carrier interposer includes a bottom wall having a top surface and a bottom surface . The top surface is placed adjacent to a bottom part of the tablet computer . Bottom portion can include one or more side walls extending upwardly from the bottom surface that are sized to surround a portion of the tablet computer e.g. see . The bottom portion may also include an aperture not shown for a rear facing camera of the tablet computer so as to allow for functional operation of a rear facing camera and or other opening s for access to a part of the tablet computer . The tablet computer can be received in the bottom portion .

As can be seen the internal surfaces defined by the top and bottom portions and facing the tablet computer fit it closely to prevent shifting of the tablet computer within the carrier interposer . This fit may be established by continuous contact about the tablet computer periphery or by point contact using projections that extend inwardly to contact the tablet computer .

As shown in in an embodiment bottom portion of tablet carrier may include cut outs or openings that can provide access to the one or more ports and buttons of a tablet computer when the tablet computer is received in and encased by the bottom portion . These access areas or openings may be provided in one or more side walls for example. In the illustrated embodiment of there are three openings A provided on a side wall A and a cut out opening B on a bottom side wall B. An additional opening C is provided on another side wall C.

Alternatively in another embodiment top portion of tablet carrier includes such cut outs or openings which can provide access to ports and buttons of the tablet computer .

In an embodiment the openings A provided on side wall A are configured for alignment with buttons existing on a selected tablet computer . For example the openings A may be respectively associated with a power button and one or more volume buttons provided on the tablet computer . In an embodiment carrier buttons with optional springs can be attached to the bottom portion of the tablet carrier and aligned with the openings A to directly or physically actuate the existing power and volume buttons on the tablet computer when forced is applied thereto. Cut out opening B on bottom side wall B may align with a slot or a data communication port on the tablet computer such that a tablet connector or USB cable may be inserted into the slot or data communication port. Alternatively a wireless connector may be used and such openings or slots may not be required.

As shown in in an embodiment top portion of tablet carrier may include openings for receipt of the carrier buttons therethrough. Such openings may be provided in one or more of the side walls for example and are not limited to the illustrated embodiment.

Three carrier buttons are shown in the illustrated embodiments on one side of the modular case assembly in the Figures however the illustrations are not intended to be limiting. Rather any number of carrier buttons can be provided on the modular case assembly and the buttons may be provided in any number of locations e.g. one or more of a top side an edge along a bottom side or any other edge or surface .

Further it is noted that use of a mechanical button like carrier button with springs as shown in is not intended to be limiting. For example a button that electronically communicates via a membrane switch by sending an electrical signal or command to a circuit board and or controller i.e. a electromechanical configuration can be used in addition to or in place of the illustrated buttons of for example. Additional details regarding electromechanical actuation of one or more buttons on the modular assembly are described later in this disclosure.

It is not necessary that both the top and bottom portions have side walls that extend along the sides of the tablet computer and only one may have the side wall s . Thus openings would only be used in that side wall. Also it is also possible to have no side walls and the top and bottom portions could be connected in sandwich relation to the tablet computer by other means such as posts or fasteners extending from one to the other with open side to provide free access to all of the ports buttons on the side of the tablet computer . Such an open sided construction would still have features such as projections shoulders or a partial wall s such as at the corners to fit closely to the tablet computer . Thus the illustrated embodiment is not intended to be limiting.

In an embodiment a tablet connector in the form of a USB cable or other type of data carrier extends from a main circuit board of the exterior housing and is connected to the port of the tablet computer through this cut out opening B. A connector is defined as a device or system that is used to connect devices e.g. tablet computer end caps and or and or batteries and or for communication purposes. Further details are described below.

As shown in the tablet carrier is enclosed by the exterior housing . The exterior housing provides overall enclosure and protection of the tablet computer and components housed therein. The exterior housing has a length and a width suitable to enclose the tablet carrier . The exterior housing has a top a bottom a first end cap and a second end cap . The exterior housing contains at least one battery and a controller for communication with the selected tablet computer . As shown in in accordance with an embodiment the exterior housing can contain a first battery and a second battery when the modular assembly is assembled around the tablet computer . The batteries can extend the battery life of the tablet computer . As shown the controller can be provided in the form of and or provided with a main circuit board for example. The at least one battery and the controller main circuit board are operatively connected to the one or more ports of the tablet computer so as to allow communication of power and data between the controller the tablet computer and a functional device of the each end cap as well as to provide extended battery life of the housed tablet computer e.g. from a battery or power source in the modular case assembly . Further the modular assembly parts can be connected for communication without requiring special software drivers or base tablet modification.

Throughout this description it should be understood that reference to a controller includes a single controller or multiple sub controllers that control specific functions related to devices including but not limited to the herein described tablet computer and functional device of an end cap. In the case of multiple controllers such controllers can but need not be physically combined into a single device. Further although the description refers to circuit boards being used as controllers for example it should be understood that any type or number of controllers can be used. The use of a circuit board as shown in the Figures is not intended to be limiting.

Referring back to the embodiment illustrated in the circuit board also referred to as a main circuit board is configured to monitor and control communications between one or both of the end caps and as well as monitor control and or contain management of the battery supply provide intelligence etc. For example the circuit board can be used to monitor and determine when the tablet computer is losing power and can use its controller to increase power from one of the housed batteries or additional details discussed later with respect to for example . The circuit board has connectors for attaching functional devices e.g. in end caps . Its controller can be any type of microcontroller or microprocessor.

The circuit board is connected to the tablet computer using tablet connector such as a USB connector or other connector that can communicate both data and electrical power as shown in . The tablet connector is plugged into the slot or data communication port in the bottom of the tablet computer for example as shown in . Further because this slot is an I O interface it allows the tablet connector when connected to the tablet computer to be used to provide power and communications between the tablet computer and the controller circuit board .

The first end cap and the second end cap are configured for installation e.g. via alignment and locking with ends of the top and the bottom of the exterior housing on an outer periphery thereof . The end caps and can be fully mobile when installed e.g. see or stationary e.g. in a docket configuration e.g. see . At least one of if not both of the first end cap and or the second end cap are configured to provide a function via a functional device that when coupled with the exterior housing and tablet carrier provides tailored functionality to the tablet computer . One or more devices can be housed within the end caps and or to implement an intended function. At least one if not both of the first and or second end cap portions and or when attached to external housing is configured to communicate with the controller main circuit board and thus the tablet computer via a connector . Referring back to for example additional controllers in the form of printed circuit boards and for example can be provided and mounted in exterior housing to facilitate communication between end caps and and the controller main circuit board . Each controller or board and can be aligned with and held vertically in slot areas provided along edges or ends of the bottom of the exterior housing to align with connector s within the end caps and for example. The circuit boards and can be used to send communications between the functional devices associated with the end caps and and the main controller circuit board . In an embodiment shown in the circuit board includes a connector device that connects to connector of the second end cap . Similarly although not shown the circuit board can include a connector device that connects to a connector of the first end cap .

As an example illustrates second end cap with a receiving slot associated with a magnetic strip reader MSR device and or writer which can be used for sliding credit card s and or other cards with magnetic strips therethrough. The magnetic strip reader within the second end cap can have its own electronics or circuit board see that is connected via connector to connector device of circuit board . When assembled and activated for use the magnetic strip reader can read information from a card that is swiped through the receiving slot and communicate such information for processing and or use via its circuit board to circuit board and then to the main circuit board and or tablet computer to complete a transaction for example.

Although the above noted Figures and description show and describe connectors and connector device each as a physical connector it should be understood that the modular assembly is not limited to such devices. Rather a connector and or a connector device may in some embodiments be provided and implemented via a wireless connection e.g. using a short range wireless technology such as Bluetooth to connect and allow communication between the end caps the enclosed selected tablet computer and or batteries and e.g. via their circuit boards .

The functions and functional devices or modules of either or both end cap portions and however are not intended to be limited. The end cap functions may include but are not limited to providing enhanced durability and shock vibration protection providing one or more of speaker s microphone s camera s and associated accessories e.g. flash e.g. see gaming buttons audio jack and a DC jack providing printing capabilities such as a receipt printer e.g. thermal printer providing secure swipe support with magnetic card reader see e.g. read only and read write capabilities providing enhanced payment features such as EMV NFC support for contactless payment applications e.g. for credit cards or other cards with NFC communication and or providing smart card reader support and or chip and pin access reading interface capability providing I O expansion providing RFID HDMI and or USB reading and or host capabilities providing biometric identification ID swipe security module such as a fingerprint scanner providing a laser bar code scanner see e.g. 1 D and 2 D laser barcode scanning capabilities or other scanning capabilities and providing a battery and or a power booster such as hot swappable battery solutions that add capacity and wireless charging of the tablet in either a plug in format e.g. see showing a power charger in the form of an upright stand or as a mobile or portable battery device acting as its own power source in the end cap which may be used to supply power to the enclosed tablet computer e.g. see showing end cap with extra battery for optional wireless charging . The functions of the first and or second end caps and or can be tailored for and or in communication or use with customer relationship management CRM applications mapping intelligent routing applications scanning applications GPS geo tracking applications hosted content management and delivery applications image capture and or upload applications and the like which may be provided in the main circuit board and or the tablet computer .

In accordance with an embodiment the first and second end cap portions and are configured to be interchangeable with one or more replacement end caps comprising different functional devices providing different functions.

Moreover a location of parts and the devices on or within the end cap portions or is also not limited. For example illustrates another embodiment wherein a receiving slot like slot is provided on a side portion of an end cap for swiping a card therethrough.

In an embodiment the end cap portions and can be provided as a set. In another embodiment the end cap portions and are separate devices. The first end cap can provide a different function than the second end cap . For example as shown in the first end cap can provide a first function e.g. barcode scanner or security module while the second end cap provides a second function that is different than the first function e.g. card swipe module .

Accordingly it should be understood that any number of modular assemblies can be manufactured and installed on tablet computers to provide multiple assemblies with one or more functions included in the end cap portions. To install one or more module assemblies around one or more tablet computers the tablet computer can be aligned and placed in the bottom portion of the tablet carrier as shown in . Carrier buttons and springs optional can be installed or already installed in place in the bottom portion . The top portion is aligned with the bottom portion of the tablet carrier and can be installed in place to surround the tablet computer . Alternatively the bottom portion of the tablet carrier can first be installed and secured to the bottom of the exterior housing as shown in by operatively connecting the at least one battery and optionally battery and the main circuit board contained by the exterior housing e.g. in bottom as shown in to the tablet computer such as by USB tablet connector or a wireless connector . Then the exterior housing is assembled. If not yet secured the tablet computer with tablet carrier can be aligned and or installed on bottom of exterior housing . Then first and second ends cap and are aligned and connected to the bottom as shown in . This includes connecting the connector of the functional device e.g. MSR of the second end cap portion and or the first end cap portion to the connector device of the circuit board which is in communication with the main circuit board thereby allowing communication of power and data between the second end cap portion and or first end cap portion and the controller main circuit board and the tablet computer or alternatively wirelessly connecting the end caps and . After the end caps and are installed the top portion of the tablet carrier can be aligned and connected with the bottom portion if not already . Then the top of the exterior housing is aligned and locked with the bottom to enclose the tablet computer as shown in and in .

When a plurality of tablet computers having varying lengths and or widths and one or more ports and button configurations are provided a plurality of modular assemblies may be installed around the tablet computers. Accordingly this disclosure further provides a method for installing a plurality of modular assemblies around a plurality of tablet computers having varying lengths and or width and one or more ports and button configurations resulting in a substantially universal case and design when installed on different types of tablets. This method includes providing first tablet carriers that are each configured to encase a first type of tablet computer when the carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers and providing second tablet carriers that are each configured to encase a second type of tablet computer when the carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers the second type of tablet computer being different than the first type of tablet computer. Common exterior housings that are each configured to enclose the first and second tablet carriers once the first and second tablet carriers are installed on their corresponding tablet computers are also provided as well as end cap portions. The top portions and the bottom portions of the first and the second tablet carriers each have internal surfaces for retaining the respective first and second types of tablet computers while still providing access to the one or more ports and buttons of the first and second types of tablet computers when the first and second tablet carriers are installed therearound.

Accordingly the first tablet carriers can be installed in place with respect to corresponding first type of tablet computers and the second tablet carriers can be installed in place with respect to corresponding second type of tablet computers. The common exterior housings are installed to enclose the first and second tablet carriers with the respective first and second types of tablet computers by aligning and locking the top and the bottom of each common exterior housing and selected end cap portions therewith and the battery ies and the controllers of each are operatively connected to one or more ports of each of the corresponding tablet computers so as to allow communication of power and data between the controllers the corresponding tablet computers and the selected end cap portions.

To change the first cap and or the second end cap the first and or second end caps are removed from the exterior housing by disconnecting the connector of the first and or second end caps from the connector thus disconnecting it from communication with the main controller circuit board or alternatively one can wirelessly disconnect the devices . A replacement end cap that is configured to provide a different function via a functional device than the specified function of the removed first and or second end caps is selected and its connector can be connected to the main circuit board via connection of the connectors and to allow communication between the functional device of the at least one replacement end cap and the main circuit board . Then installation can be completed by installing e.g. aligning and locking the at least one replacement end cap with the top and the bottom of the exterior housing around the installed tablet carrier .

In an embodiment the tablet carrier and or exterior housing may include one or more indicators in the form of lights or LEDs for example. Each of the indicators may be illuminated when power is supplied to the tablet carrier and tablet computer . In an embodiment LEDs are implemented within the tablet carrier and are configured to indicate a specific action associated with the tablet carrier. For example the LEDs may change their emittance pattern and or color s when a specific action is applied by a user or if an action needs to be taken by a user e.g. the LEDs may change color if the battery state of charge is low or if an end cap and or is removed . The application of LEDs and or other indicators in such a manner should be understood by one of skill in the art and therefore is not further explained in detail herein.

In an embodiment the tablet carrier and or exterior housing may also or alternatively include one or more programmable buttons. The programmable button s can be used for communicating with the tablet computer to implement a specified function via at least the circuit board when connected for communication with the corresponding tablet computer . Programmable button s allow for ease of programming and tailoring of tablet functionality. The programmable button s can be associated with a controller that is configured to automatically actuate or implement the assigned function.

The one or more programmable buttons may be one of the previously mentioned buttons and or an additional button provided on the tablet carrier itself. It can be provided on any side or surface of the modular assembly .

In an embodiment the one or more programmable buttons are configured to electromechanically actuate a button a program or an application associated with the tablet computer . One or more actuators for actuating the one or more buttons on the tablet computer can be provided on the interposer tablet carrier and or the external housing . An actuator in this disclosure refers to a device alone or part of a system that is configured to actuate e.g. press one or more buttons on the tablet computer. The one or more programmable button s are configured to cause at least one of the one or more actuators to actuate its corresponding button. An actuator such as a solenoid or microsolenoid and or solenoid driver see can be utilized for example in accordance with an embodiment. In another embodiment a shape memory material described later with reference to can be used as an actuator. In another embodiment a mercury switch can be used as an actuator. In yet another embodiment compressed air may be used as an actuator. For example a device such as a CO2 cartridge may be provided in the carrier to apply a force of compressed air to actuate the buttons on the tablet computer . The type of actuator provided in the modular assembly is not intended to be limited.

The programmable button s can cause at least one of the one or more actuators to actuate its corresponding button on the tablet computer . Particularly in accordance with embodiments herein the corresponding button s are activated remotely by pressing the programmable buttons. That is the programmable button s may not necessarily be configured to be in direct alignment with the buttons on the tablet computer but rather the programmable buttons may be provided in a different location from the buttons on the tablet computer and thus are configured to actuate one or more of the buttons on the tablet computer via the actuator in a substantially remote manner. Accordingly in embodiments the programmable button s do not need to directly contact the button s on the tablet computer or be in direct alignment therewith to have direct actuation thereof. That is in an embodiment at least one programmable button is provided on a first axis for actuational movement along the first axis e.g. along the axis in a linear fashion by pressing the button inwardly and the corresponding button on the tablet computer configured for actuation via at least one actuator is provided on a second axis for actuational movement along the second axis but the first axis and second axis are different from each other. In an embodiment the location of the programmable button s on the modular assembly is different than the locations of the button s of the tablet computer . For example the programmable button s may be provided on one side or surface while the button s to be actuated on the tablet computer are provided on another side or surface. The actuator s can be utilized individually or as part of an actuating system.

As another example in embodiments the programmable button s of the modular assembly and the actuated button s of the tablet computer may be provided on the same side but not are not axially aligned. In an embodiment the programmable button is provided on a plane that is parallel to a plane of the corresponding button. For example the programmable button may be provided at near or adjacent a lower or bottom right side of the modular assembly while the actuated button of the tablet computer is provided at near or adjacent an upper right side of the tablet computer .

In an embodiment the programmable button is provided on a plane that is perpendicular to a plane of the corresponding button. For example the programmable button may be provided on a right side of the modular assembly while the actuated button of the tablet computer is provided on an upper or top side of the tablet computer . Thus the programmable button s may indirectly cause actuation or activation of buttons on a tablet computer inside the enclosure held inside the carrier without being directly or substantially aligned with each other along the same actuation axis.

As previously noted the actuator may be part of an actuation system used to cause motion to another mechanical device that in turn actuates the buttons of the tablet computer . To actuate the buttons of the embedded tablet computer indirectly in the exemplary manners noted above one or more mechanical devices may be used. An actuator may directly actuate a corresponding button on the tablet computer or it may actuate another device to indirectly actuate the corresponding button on the tablet computer . In an embodiment one or more mechanical devices may be associated with the one or more actuators in the modular assembly . The one or more actuators may be configured to activate movement of the one or more mechanical devices to thereby actuate a corresponding button on the tablet computer. Accordingly when installing the first and second tablet carriers or the installing of the common exterior housings around varying types of tablet computers the method may include aligning the one or more mechanical devices relative to the tablet computer for actuating the corresponding button on the tablet computer. This alignment may simply take place by inserting or installing the tablet computer into the modular assembly since the placement of the actuator s and mechanical device s can be customized like the tablet carriers based on the type of tablet computer or electronic device to be held therein.

As seen in for example the activator includes a body with a receiving portion at or near one end for looping or wrapping the shape memory wire therearound. The shape memory wire is thus also connected to the activator . The shape memory wire see is configured to impart linear motion to the activator as represented by arrow B. At or near an opposite end of the body of the activator is a guide portion that extends vertically for insertion into a slot of the rotatable crank arm . The rotatable crank arm has a body configured for rotation about an axis A A with an arm extending therefrom. As shown in and at least a portion of the arm is aligned adjacent to a button on the tablet computer .

The arm includes the slot on its underside. As shown in the slot may include one or more linear and angled portions and . The guide portion is inserted into and provided in the slot . By moving the activator in a linear fashion via the shape memory wire the activator is configured to impart rotational motion to the rotatable crank arm such that its arm can mechanically actuate e.g. press a button the tablet computer part of its arm moves to press and move the button along its actuational axis . That is as the crank arm rotates about axis A A its extended arm moves or pivots towards a button on the tablet computer to push and move the button along its actuational axis.

When the programmable button is pressed and moved along its own actuational axis for example a signal is sent to the circuit board . The circuit board sends current to the shape memory wire which shrinks and results in the linear motion of the activator in the direction indicated by arrow C in . The applied linear motion of the activator rotates the crank arm . show in greater detail an example of relative movement of activator and crank arm . As the shape memory wire is actuated via current from the circuit board and shrinks the body of activator is linearly pulled in the direction of arrow C which in turn moves the guide portion from a linear portion of the slot and into the angled portion shown in and then into the linear portion of the slot as shown in . This linear movement of the activator results in the rotational movement of the crank arm about axis A A as also shown in .

The rotational movement of the crank arm about axis A A causes the arm to actuate press or stroke the adjacent button on the tablet computer and move it along its actuational axis. The button stroke and or rotation of the crank arm may be minimal but sufficient to press or actuate the adjacent button of the tablet computer and move it in the direction along its axis.

Of course as noted above use of a shape memory material is one example of an actuator . Alternative devices or methods may be used to actuate buttons on the tablet computer using the programmable button s without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

As shown in additional opening C can be provided on side wall C of tablet carrier for receipt of another button and optional spring that is configured for communication with the tablet computer . In accordance with an embodiment button is a programmable button.

Because the programmable button uses electromechanical actuation as opposed to a physical actuation a button or function on the tablet computer can be actuated despite its external button configuration. The location of the programmable button can be different than the location of a button on the tablet computer and it does not need to the aligned therewith. Since different types of tablets can have different button locations and configurations many cases are manufactured to conform to button locations. That is the actuator and or actuation system associated with the programmable buttons is customizable based on the tablet computer and or subassembly designed for placement in the modular assembly . Thus despite where buttons may be on the tablet computer the actuator and or actuation system can be assembled such that the programmable buttons are designed to actuate them. However with at least one programmable button the modular assembly the button configuration provided on the tablet s is not limiting. The modular assembly can manipulate the actual physical tablet buttons independent of which tablet it is and its location. Accordingly the modular assembly can be installed on any number of types of tablets without needing to move the position of the programmable button s on the tablet carrier and or external case .

Further because the actuation is electromechanical electricity to the actuator s and communication via the programmable button s can be controlled. For example the programmable button may be deactivated to enhance security.

In accordance with an embodiment the programmable button can be configured to implement its specified function and or other functions based upon any number of initiation sequences e.g. single push double push push and hold for a predetermined amount of time e.g. thirty seconds push and hold while pushing another button concurrently e.g. power button or volume up down key s . For example the assigned sequence s can initiate a hard overall system reset can run a system diagnostic and report results to end user launch a specific software application or program and or launch combination software hardware application e.g. scan barcode print transmit data over WWAN .

Implementation of functions or actions by the end caps or by buttons such as a programmable button can be controlled by the circuit board and its microcontroller MCU in the tablet carrier . The tablet carrier or interposer includes embedded software to control the system architecture including a USB bus as well as power management the end cap peripheral interfaces and authentication and microprocessor controller control. A solenoid driver see can be used as an actuator to electromechanically activate the power and or volume button s on the tablet computer for example. The tablet computer is configured to communicate with hub of the main circuit board provided in tablet carrier .

In an embodiment the modular assembly includes embedded software for Mobile Device Management MDM in order to detect monitor and control specific systems such as determining if end cap portions and are presented authenticated and when last attached installed battery capacity and status of battery ies in exterior housing and or a power booster end cap portion if attached determining end cap function e.g. diagnostic to determine if the end cap is functioning properly determining MSR end cap payment key present and type suspending or shutting down an end cap portion and configuring locking of the tablet computer if an end cap portion like or is removed and or tampered with. Such examples however are not limiting.

As shown the tablet computer and the modular assembly communicate via USB classes or protocols like HID Human Interface Device and VCP Virtual Com Port.

The modular assembly has firmware including a microcontroller MCU the first end cap with its own circuit board and the second end cap with its circuit board . The MCU first end cap and second end cap communicate e.g. via sending signals and or commands using the circuit board and with the tablet computer via USB connection .

The architecture shown in allows for adjustment or altering of the software on the tablet side if needed. For example the demo application can be uploaded or downloaded and updated as necessary. MCU of the modular assembly allows for downloading of new software as well and per its USB connection software associated with one or more of the end caps and or can be transferred into the hub and MCU of the modular assembly .

Not shown in schematic diagram of are a series of buttons associated with the modular assembly . However it should be understood that when such a button is pressed the MCU detects and sends as HID information commands to the tablet OS . The MCU may send off status reports if another action is received or happens which in such a case may be communicated via VCP into the core API .

Also shown in is circuitry associated with the modular assembly . The circuitry shows a 30 pin connector like connector that is connected for communication with the tablet circuitry via a USB FS Hub. Alternatively a wireless connection may be used as previously noted . The USB FS Hub is in communication with the first end cap via its circuit board shown here as an MSR the second end cap via its circuit board shown here as a bar code scanner BCS the MCU and optionally other device s or end caps as represented by TBD. The MCU controls any LEDs of the modular assembly via I2C communication. The buttons on the modular assembly e.g. on off volume programmable button s communicate with the MCU via GPIO. A tablet on off button actuator or actuation system is electromechanically in communication with the MCU as well e.g. as previously described . Essentially the MCU of the modular assembly talks to the OS and core API of the tablet computer via the USB hub.

Since some OS devices only have a single USB line and not a hub or multiple attachments or connections as found in other USB based architectures a connection device such as a lightning connector in the form of a USB host can be provided in the modular assembly to act as a USB bridge to the MCU. Alternatively a wireless connector may be used. Such OS devices may further include an authentication processor that is connected to the MCU to authenticate and confirm the accessory which in this case is the modular assembly is compatible and authentic. The MCU is in communication with the first end cap via its circuit board shown here as an MSR the second end cap via its circuit board shown here as a bar code scanner BCS and optionally other device s not shown . The MCU may control the LEDs of the modular assembly via I2C communication with an LED driver . The buttons on the modular assembly e.g. on off volume programmable button s communicate with the MCU via GPIO. A tablet on off button actuator or actuation system is electromechanically in communication with the MCU as well e.g. as previously described . Essentially the MCU of the modular assembly talks to the OS and core API of the tablet computer via the USB host in the form of connector .

Generally the method includes automatically monitoring a state of charge of the at least one case battery automatically monitoring a state of charge of the tablet battery and automatically charging the tablet battery using the at least one case battery. In an embodiment monitoring a state of charge of the tablet battery comprises determining if the state of charge of the tablet battery is less than a predetermined amount of its total capacity and wherein the automatically charging the tablet battery using the at least one case battery is performed after determining that the state of charge of the tablet battery is less than the predetermined amount.

The method allows for optimization of battery life with concurrent use of charging the tablet computer while powering the peripheral end caps and . No manual intervention is required to charge the tablet battery. Thus method may also be referred to as a charging algorithm for the tablet computer . The method may be implemented by the modules of the core API of the tablet computer for example. In an embodiment the method is provided as an application for download or implementation on the tablet computer. Accordingly when method is implemented as an application it can be updated as needed.

As shown in the method may begin or start at and the tablet battery state of charge is monitored as noted at . At it is determined if the case battery or batteries has a state of charge that is greater than 40 of its total capacity. In an embodiment if the state of charge VCASE of the case battery is not greater than 40 of its total capacity i.e. NO the state of charge of the case battery is lower than or equal to 40 then there is not enough or sufficient excess capacity to charge the tablet battery. Thus there is no need to check the state of charge of the tablet computer since it cannot be charged by the batteries of the modular assembly . Thus the method may be restarted.

In an embodiment an alert may be optionally provided as shown at to alert a user that the state of charge is low and that charging e.g. via a plug in connector to an electrical outlet or inductive charging is or will be required for the batteries and or of the modular assembly and or tablet computer . In an embodiment the alert at is provided by turning on or changing color of the LEDs on the modular assembly . The number of LEDs that are lit may also be adjusted or alternatively the LEDs may be configured to flash. Of course other alerts such as an alarm visual or audible on the tablet computer and or on the modular assembly may also be used. The optional alert may be provided in any number of forms and is not intended to be limiting.

In an embodiment the battery ies and or of the modular assembly can be charged alone or together with the battery of the tablet computer enclosed therein. For example in an embodiment the tablet battery can be charged via inductive charge e.g. via a mat configured to inductively charge a tablet computer placed on the mat. In an embodiment the battery ies and or associated with the modular assembly may be inductively charged. In an embodiment the modular assembly can provide access to the tablet computer to allow a plug in connector to be inserted for charging. In an embodiment a plug in connector can be inserted into a port in the modular assembly to simultaneously charge the battery ies and or and the tablet battery or just the battery ies and or . The devices and methods used to charge the batteries and or and tablet battery should not be limited.

Referring back to at if the state of charge VCASE of the case battery is greater than 40 of its total capacity i.e. YES it is then determined at if the state of charge of the tablet battery represented as VTABLET in is less than 35 of its total capacity. If it is not i.e. NO then the method may restart. An optional alert may be provided as shown at .

If however it is determined that YES the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet battery is less than 35 of its total capacity then the method continues from and as shown at it is determined if the state of charge VTABLET is less than 20 of its total capacity. If NO at then the method continues to monitor the charge of the tablet as shown at and continues to determine if the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet computer is below 35 and 20 .

If the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet battery is less than 20 i.e. YES at then the tablet battery charging is started at and then the method continues to monitor the charge of the tablet as shown at .

If the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet battery is greater than 20 but less than 35 continue charging the battery. That is any detection that the state of charge of the tablet battery is greater than 20 it will bypass but still continue to charge the tablet battery until it is at 35 of its total capacity. Once the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet battery is greater than 35 as determined at i.e. NO then the method re starts at .

If or once the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet computer is determined to be less than 20 of its total capacity at i.e. YES then charging of the tablet battery is started or initiated at . In particular the battery or batteries of the modular assembly are used to charge the battery of the tablet computer as well as provide power to the end caps and case and their functions . The battery of the tablet can be charged for example until the state of charge VTABLET of the tablet battery is determined to be 35 of its total capacity. Then the charging of the battery can be stopped.

A battery charge that is greater than or equal to 35 of its total capacity does not require the battery to be charged. Thus the battery does not need to be charged or its charging originally initiated at may be stopped at least until the state of charge VTABLET is again determined to be lower than 20 of its total capacity or until the state of charge VCASE falls below 40 of its total capacity .

Of course the percentages of total battery capacity noted in the method above and as shown in are exemplary and are not intended to be limiting. The percentages can be altered or adjusted based on the specific requirements of the intended application.

Accordingly the method as shown in illustrates how the charging and power management of the modular assembly may reside in the software and how it is managed automatically without human intervention or human interaction to control the charging of the tablet battery e.g. unlike Mophie and other mobile recharging platforms which require a push button to start charging of a tablet battery. The modular assembly continuously and or constantly receives information on the state of the tablet battery and the batteries within the modular case assembly and end caps and determines if what should be charged e.g. microprocessor .

In accordance with an embodiment the software and or firmware can be programmed or manipulated based on the type of end cap and or provided on or with the modular assembly . Devices that are configured to communicate using HID protocols may limit communication between the OS and or core API of the tablet computer and the functional device of the end cap and or . As an example a barcode scanner BCS in an end cap such as shown in when used in HID Keyboard mode with the USB descriptor subclass set to BOOT the de facto default under an Android system results in allowing only one way communication from the BCS to the tablet. An example of such communication is shown in . The BCS communicates via the USB to the OS of the tablet. However communication from the tablet computer to the BCS is limited or not allowed. That is no control of the BCS via the software firmware is possible.

In order to have the end caps and and tablet computer in two way communication with each other the communication protocol may be adjusted for one or more of the end caps and or as needed. An embodiment for implementing a pseudo HID keyboard for the BCS end cap in an Android system is shown in . The MCU is connected as a HID device without BOOT. The BCS is connected via VCP to core API .

The BCS sends data via VCP to the tablet computer which in turn data is sent to the MCU via VCP. The MCU then converts the data to HID keyboard commands and send packets back to the tablet computer where Android processes the packets . Control of the BCS then is implemented through VCP. Accordingly the BCS end cap looks like a keyboard to the tablet s OS Android reader thus allowing two way communication between the BCS and the tablet computer .

Utilizing the communication protocols in the manner shown in permits consistent reliable communication to BCS peripheral end cap or any another end cap while minimizing programming and customization requirements for the targeted software applications. Such alterations may be implemented and performed through coding and programming. There is no added software required to read and or send and receive data between the end caps and tablet computer.

In addition to monitoring and reporting the battery status of both the modular assembly and tablet without the need for user interaction or implementation the software and or firmware may be configured to also perform diagnostics on subsystems within the modular assembly and may report such determinations or finding to an end user.

Also in an embodiment a software development kit may be provided for use in conjunction with the modular assembly to allow for the capability of embedding the functionality or functionalities of end caps and or into a selected software application to control the USB architecture.

Further third party applications may be configured and integrated for use with the modular assembly . Mobile payment processing applications CRM applications Mapping intelligent routing applications barcode scanning applications device geo tracking applications hosted content management and delivery applications general image capture upload applications and other applications as currently known or developed later can be designed tested and deployed by third party application developer community and implemented in the modular assembly .

In accordance with an embodiment part of the enclosure of the modular assembly can be disassembled and still function. In an embodiment in an event that one or both end caps are removed the design of the tablet carrier and exterior housing still permits operation of the tablet computer . Thus the design may include a singular functional end cap or none at all. In another embodiment in the event that one or both end caps are removed one or more programmable buttons e.g. as described above are provided on the tablet carrier and or exterior housing and are configured for use to automatically actuate or implement a tablet associated function e.g. open an application or a program .

Accordingly this disclosure provides a modular assembly design that supports and extends customer media tablet computers and similar electronic devices by providing a range of customizable solutions that are durable and provide protection to the tablet computer. The modular assembly can be flexibly configured and or customized to provide a tailored solution with specific functions associated with its peripheral components in the form of interchangeable end cap portions that enclose a tablet in addition to providing decorative and protective features. It can further include customized software loading that can be implemented or accessed via programmable button s . The assembly accommodates customer interactive applications consolidates features for specific uses and provides a solution for complementary functionality to a range of different types of tablets e.g. can be assembled with end cap s for a targeted use . The disclosed assembly is not limited by volume leverage and provides flexibility to cover a variety of enterprise use cases.

The modular assembly can be installed on tablet computer s and used in any number of markets including but not limited to hospitality retail financial services medical and transport industries. It can be built made or manufactured and mounted or assembled for connection with any number of existing tablet computers or customized tablet computers. Hence from a manufacturing standpoint the designer can use the same external housing and the same end caps with different interposers carriers and different types of tablet computers . This reduces the amount of custom tooling required and allows the usage of a same or common external housing and types of end caps to be allocated across systems or assemblies accommodating tablet computers of differing types.

That is because the interposer carrier is the structure that mechanically interfaces with the tablet computer in terms of fitting closely for proper securement and also possibly in terms of providing access to the button s and or port s on the tablet computer it can be varied to accommodate different tablet computers while the external housing can remain the same. Thus a high degree of flexibility and modularity may be achieved because a common external housing can be used with different interposers tablet carriers to use on different types of tablet computers . Thus flexibility and modularity is further increased because the external housing has the interface s for receiving end caps of different types.

The modular assembly is a fully mobile device. It provides a mobile consistent OS agnostic solution for deploying consumer media tablets and electronic devices with a variety of peripheral end caps which may be targeted to specific business usage scenarios. The modular assembly may have ubiquitous data access i.e. used indoors or outside without access to power or it may have geo restricted data access i.e. restricted to a network e.g. LAN or via GPS . As previously noted it further can be used in a stationary or docked configuration with or without perpetual access to power and or other connectable devices e.g. to a screen .

Also the modular assembly as disclosed herein may be designed to provide several features for use with tablet computers and or phablets and or other types of electronic devices which may include but are not limited to can double battery capacity of media tablet protects the media tablet computer and corresponding end cap peripherals can be water resistant prevent egress of water and or dust into the tablet carrier and or modular assembly to provide thermal shock absorption and withstand vibrations withstand temperature differences and extremes provide a non slip grip or surface allow for holding with one or both hands with minimal fatigue due to its curved design and accessibility of key functions are not blocked by ports or cables. The modular assembly protects the case battery ies and or so that there is power for the associated functions LEDs buttons etc. in the end caps and or while still allowing for charging of the tablet battery. The modular assembly can be provided in one or multiple colors exterior finishes and or with or without branding options.

In an embodiment parts of the tablet carrier and the exterior housing can be integrally formed or joined together. The elements features and connection and separation of such elements as shown in the Figures are not limiting. In an embodiment the exterior housing can be formed with internal surfaces that correspond to a selected type of tablet while its outer or outside surfaces have a common or universal design.

The disclosed modular assembly further increases battery life and is low cost. It can include both electronic and direct actuation of buttons on tablet computers. The accessibility of key functions is not blocked by ports or cables in this modular assembly.

Moreover the materials and specifications of the parts and modular assembly described herein are not intended to be limited. The one or more batteries e.g. battery and or can be a swappable 2000 mAh or 4000 Ah battery that can be inductively charged by the power booster for example.

Although not described in detail herein it should be understood that the modular assembly can include other features some of which are shown in the example chart in . These include but are not limited to an adjustable handstrap an additional battery a pen holder or garage audio outlets or output ports controls or buttons indicators e.g. LEDs optional keypad and optional mounting bracket. The functional devices used with the one or more end caps and or can vary as previously noted.

In an embodiment one or more seals e.g. gland seal O rings membrane are provided in tablet carrier and or external housing for aiding in limiting ingress of moisture water or dust of from an environment for example from entering the modular assembly interfering with parts contained therein and limiting damage to parts e.g. preventing damage to the tablet itself and the functional devices within in the end cap s . For example the assembly can be formed using plastic s that are sealed via one or more seals to meet Mil. Std. 810g and IP 54 . Also for example a material can be applied to vary the feel of the exterior surface of the exterior housing e.g. non slip or rubberized feel to metallic finish and alternating colors can used on the exterior housing e.g. primary and or accent colors . Logos symbols and or other branding can also be applied on the exterior housing . A hand strap can be applied to the bottom surface of the bottom of external housing e.g. back of the modular assembly for example. The hand strap can include an adjustable strap that can be temporarily secured by a device such as hook and loop material or a snap and oriented to comfortably allow usage of the overall solution in both landscape and portrait orientations. An optionally lockable fixed mount bracket that fixes power input or docket for battery charging can also be provided. The optional lockable fixed mount bracket can provide the option of locking the tablet to the fixture ensuring the power source maintains connection and provide multiple interface options to stationary stands or fixtures.

While the principles of the disclosure have been made clear in the illustrative embodiments set forth above it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made to the structure arrangement proportion elements materials and components used in the practice of the disclosure. For example any reference to first and second end caps should not be limiting including the examples of types and or applications of first and second end caps. One of ordinary skill in the art understands that the use of first and second is not intended to limit the type application location and or use of both end caps at the same time on the same tablet carrier. Further two end caps need not be used at the same time in the modular case assembly. Moreover as previously noted each end cap need not provide a function or have functional device therein and may merely be used as a part case or holder for other devices in the modular assembly. For example in one embodiment an end cap may be used as a storage device. The end cap may include a hollow portion therein to hold a cord connector earphones or earbuds accessories or other devices that may be used with the enclosed tablet computer and or modular assembly.

Also the articles a and an are used herein to refer to one or to more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. Additionally any reference to more than one item in the description e.g. end caps devices batteries etc. is not intended to be limited to the use of only more than one of such articles but for descriptive and or explanatory purposes only. It should be understood that singular articles may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

It will thus be seen that the features of this disclosure have been fully and effectively accomplished. It will be realized however that the foregoing preferred specific embodiments have been shown and described for the purpose of illustrating the functional and structural principles of this disclosure and are subject to change without departure from such principles. Therefore this disclosure includes all modifications encompassed within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

