---

title: Reference content determination from audio content
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for causing aural and/or visual presentation of reference content, such as word definitions, in response to a request regarding a portion of media content during playback. In some embodiments, one or more words may be determined that may be of interest to the user from among words in a content window preceding a current playback position in the content, without the user specifying a specific word of interest. A presentation of reference content corresponding to the determined one or more words may be generated and presented aurally and/or visually in order to provide definitions, encyclopedia information, summary information, and/or other information regarding a portion of media content near the current playback position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286287&OS=09286287&RS=09286287
owner: Audible, Inc.
number: 09286287
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
Generally described computing devices may present various types of digital content to users for consumption. For example computing devices may visually present items of content such as electronic books movies television programs and other multimedia content. Similarly computing devices may aurally present content such as audio books music movies and other multimedia content. Some computing devices may enable an individual to navigate through audio content by selecting options such as pause play fast forward rewind or rewind a fixed period of time such as thirty seconds. Additionally some computing devices may display text corresponding to audio content such as the text words of an electronic book. Some electronic book readers or other devices enable a user to select a specific word on a presented page of an electronic book in order to view a definition of the selected word.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure are directed to presenting words audibly and or visually in response to a user request that provide the user with reference information regarding a portion of media content during playback. For example a user may use a personal computing device such as a smartphone to listen to an audio book. During playback of the audio book the user may hear a word in which the user is interested. For example a user may want a definition of a word and or would like to know more about a word. The user may select a define option from the user interface of the smartphone. A system and or service as described herein may determine one or more words of potential interest to the user near the current playback position of the audio content. The system and or service may generate reference content for presentation such as a definition and or encyclopedic information associated with the one or more determined words. The reference content may then be presented to the user audibly and or visually on the smartphone.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to generating reference content associated with a portion of media content during playback. In this regard a reference content service is disclosed that may present during media playback of content reference content associated with one or more words near a current media playback position. The reference content service may determine a subset of the words of likely interest to the user near a current media playback position based at least in part on word ranking scores. In some embodiments the user may be presented with definitions and or summary information such as information from a dictionary encyclopedia and or other reference source.

In some embodiments the words for given portions of audio content such as audio content of an audio book may be determined based at least in part on a corresponding or related item of textual content such as textual content of an electronic book version of the same underlying book . An item of textual content and a corresponding item of audio content are sometimes referred to herein as associated or companion content. An item of audio content and a corresponding item of associated textual content may be synchronized with one another. For example a computing device implementing the reference content service may be provided with content synchronization information that maps one or more words in the item of associated textual content with a position of an identical word or words in the item of audio content e.g. the identical word or words that are spoken sung recited etc. in the item of audio content . In some embodiments the synchronization information may indicate time positions and or data locations within associated audio content that correspond to word paragraph or other positions within the textual content. More information regarding synchronizing an item of audio content with an item of associated textual content as well as content synchronization information that may be stored in association with the synchronization may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 273 473 the 473 Application filed Nov. 18 2008 entitled SYNCHRONIZATION OF DIGITAL CONTENT which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An example of associated content as used herein may include various representations of content discussed in the 473 Application.

 Reference content as disclosed herein may comprise dictionary data encyclopedic data definitions summary information and or other information regarding the media content depending on the embodiment. While the example of defining a word is often used herein it will be appreciated that in some embodiments definitions synonyms antonyms etymology encyclopedic entries or other information may be provided for one or more words that are collectively considered a phrase term or are otherwise used in combination to indicate a particular concept idea person place event etc.

In some embodiments a reference content module when executed by one or more hardware processors as disclosed herein may cause a computing device to play at least a portion of audio content of an audio book where the audio content is associated with textual content that includes text of the words spoken and or time positions of the text words. During playback of the audio content by the computing device the reference content module may receive user input indicating a request for reference content. The reference content module may then determine a word or phrase for which the user may be interested in receiving reference content such as a definition or other description of the meaning of the word or phrase. In some embodiments the word or phrase may be selected from a content window that precedes the playback position within the audio content. The word or phrase of potential interest may be determined based at least in part on word ranking scores of words within the given window of content near the current playback position such as but not limited to word difficulty scores lookup scores frequency and or scarcity data regarding words relative to other words in a the general English language or other language b the given book and or c a library of books. In some embodiments the user does not provide any indication of the specific word or words of interest other than to indicate that reference content is desired with respect to recently played content. The reference content module may then cause the computing device to visually and or aurally present reference content corresponding to the determined words associated with the content window.

While examples of words and or audio content in the English language are often used herein it will be appreciated that in some embodiments words and or audio content in languages other than English may be used.

A reference content service as disclosed herein may be implemented in any of a number of environments in which content is presented. In some embodiments the reference content service may be implemented as an application executed on a user computing device configured to present visual and or audio content. A user interface to navigate the content may be provided by the user computing device as the application is executed. In other embodiments the reference content service may be implemented via a content page hosted by a reference content server on a network. The content page may be accessed by a user computing device via a network resource browser. A user interface for requesting reference content may be provided on the content page and the content may be streamed and or downloaded from the reference content server to the user computing device for presentation thereon. Other implementations are possible in different embodiments.

While reference is frequently made herein to presenting an item of audio content that is synchronized to an item of associated textual content the presented content to be referenced may include any type of content that is presented continuously over time. Examples of continuously presented content may include audio books podcasts news programs musical works electronic books television programs video clips movies multimedia content video games and other types of content. Likewise the associated textual content may include any type of digital textual content that is associated to the item of continuously presented content such as an electronic book closed caption content screenplay script libretto transcription e.g. speech to text or other textual content. As will be appreciated in some embodiments textual content representing words spoken in various types of audio content may be determined dynamically using speech recognition and or other known methods. Accordingly in some embodiments textual content and or associated content synchronization information for a given portion of audio content may be determined dynamically in response to a user request for reference content.

Turning to an illustrative network environment is shown in which a reference content service may be implemented. The network environment may include a user computing device a network a reference content server a reference content data store and a media content data store . The constituents of the network environment may be in communication with each other either locally or over the network .

The user computing device may be any computing device capable of communicating over the network such as a laptop or tablet computer personal computer personal digital assistant PDA hybrid PDA mobile phone mobile phone smartphone global positioning system GPS device electronic book reader set top box camera audio book player digital media player video game console in store kiosk television appliance electronic device for inclusion in vehicles or machinery gaming device or the like.

The user computing device may generally be capable of presenting audio and or visual content to a user of the user computing device . For example the user computing device may be capable of playing audio content by directing audible or aural output through speakers headphones or the like. In some embodiments the user computing device may also be capable of presenting images video content text and user interfaces on a display screen. The user computing device may further be capable of receiving user input through a user input device such as a keyboard mouse touchpad touch screen microphone trackball touchscreen gamepad or other input device known in the art.

The user computing device may further be capable of accessing network resources such as content pages via the network . In some embodiments continuously presented content may be presented through these content pages by the user computing device e.g. by audio content being streamed over the network to the user computing device . In other embodiments content presented by the user computing device may be retrieved from a data store that is local to the user computing device .

In some embodiments the user computing device stores one or more items of audio content textual content and or associated content in an electronic data store. For example the user computing device may include one or more hard disk drives solid state memories and or any other type of non transitory computer readable storage medium accessible to or integrated within the user computing device . These items may be retrieved from storage and conveyed by the user computing device . The user computing device may also store content synchronization information in the electronic data store. As discussed above content synchronization information may map one or more words in an item of associated textual content with a presentation position of an identical word or words in an item of audio content.

The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be an over the air broadcast network e.g. for radio or television or a publicly accessible network of linked networks possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In some embodiments the network may be a private or semi private network such as a corporate or university intranet. The network may include one or more wireless networks such as a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or any other type of wireless network. The network can use protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of networks. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The reference content server is a computing device that may perform a variety of operations to implement a reference content service. For example the reference content server may synchronize an item of audio content with an item of associated textual content. In some embodiments the item of associated textual content may be a textual representation of the item of audio content that was transcribed therefrom. The reference content server may provide items of audio content and or associated textual content to the user computing device . In some embodiments the reference content server may present an item of audio content and or visual content to the user computing device for presentation. The reference content server may present reference content associated with a word or phrase in response to a user request. Additional operations of the reference content server are described below with respect to .

The reference content server may be in communication with a reference content data store . The reference content data store may electronically store in some embodiments dictionary data encyclopedic data and or other reference data as further discussed below. The reference content data store may be embodied in hard disk drives solid state memories any other type of non transitory computer readable storage medium and or a file a database a relational database stored in any such non transitory computer readable medium accessible to the reference content server . The reference content data store may also be distributed or partitioned across multiple local and or storage devices without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example dictionary data and or encyclopedic data may be stored in different storage devices and or accessed via different services. In some embodiments the reference content data store may be a data storage web service.

The reference content server may be in communication with an electronic media content data store . The media content data store may electronically store items of audio content and or associated textual content such as audio books podcasts news programs musical works electronic books television programs video clips movies multimedia content video games and or other types of content. The media content data store may additionally store in some embodiments word ranking data such as word difficulty scores and or lookup frequency scores as further discussed below. In some embodiments the media content data store may be embodied in various types of computer readable storage similar to the reference content data store .

The user computing device and reference content server may each be embodied in a plurality of devices. A server or other computing system implementing the user computing device and or reference content server may include a network interface memory processing unit and non transitory computer readable medium drive all of which may communicate with each other by way of a communication bus. Moreover a processing unit may itself be referred to as a computing device. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network and or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the user computing device and reference content server . The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent and or auxiliary non transitory computer readable storage media.

It will be recognized that many of the devices described above are optional and that embodiments of the environment may or may not combine devices. Furthermore devices need not be distinct or discrete. Devices may also be reorganized in the environment . For example the reference content server may be represented in a single physical server or alternatively may be split into multiple physical servers. In some embodiments the entire reference content service may be represented in a single computing device such as user computing device . Additionally the environment may not include a network .

Additionally in some embodiments the reference content service is implemented by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and or released computing resources. The computing resources may include hardware computing networking and or storage devices configures with specifically configured computer executable instructions. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

The reference content server may include a processing unit a network interface a non transitory computer readable medium drive and an input output device interface all of which may communicate with one another by way of a communication bus. As illustrated the reference content server is optionally associated with or in communication with an optional display and an optional input device . The display and input device may be used in embodiments in which users interact directly with the reference content server such as an integrated in store kiosk or integrated component for inclusion in an automobile boat train or airplane for example. In other embodiments the display and input device may be included in the user computing device shown in . The network interface may provide reference content server with connectivity to one or more networks or computing systems. The processing unit may thus receive information and instructions from other computing systems such as the user computing device or services via a network. The processing unit may also communicate to and from memory and further provide output information for an optional display via the input output device interface . The input output device interface may accept input from the optional input device such as a keyboard mouse digital pen touch screen or gestures recorded via motion capture. The input output device interface may also output audio data to speakers or headphones not shown .

The memory may contain specifically configured computer program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to implement one or more embodiments of the reference content service. The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent or non transitory computer readable storage media. The memory may store an operating system that provides computer program instructions for use by the processing unit in the general administration and operation of the reference content server . The memory may further include other information for implementing aspects of the reference content service. For example in one embodiment the memory includes a user interface module that facilitates generation of user interfaces such as by providing instructions therefor for display upon a computing device such as the user computing device . For example a user interface may be displayed via a navigation interface such as a web browser implemented by the user computing device . In addition the memory may include or communicate with the reference content data store and or media content data store . Content stored in the media content data store may include various types of content items word difficulty data lookup frequency data word frequency data word scarcity data and or content synchronization information.

In addition to the user interface module the memory may include a reference content module that may be executed by the processing unit . In some embodiments the reference content module may implement various aspects of the present disclosure. For example the reference content module may present audio content and or associated content receive user requests for reference content determine one or more words of likely interest to the user for given portions of content cause presentation of reference content associated with the determined words during content playback and or other aspects of the disclosure described herein.

While the reference content module is illustrated as implemented by the reference content server in other embodiments the reference content service may be implemented partially or entirely by the user computing device . For example the reference content service may be provided as specifically configured hardware and or specifically configured application software implemented by hardware on the user computing device . Accordingly the user computing device may include a reference content module and other components that operate similarly to the components illustrated as part of the reference content server including a processing unit network interface non transitory computer readable medium drive input output interface memory user interface module and so forth.

Illustrative method begins at block where the reference content module receives a request for a definition and or other reference information regarding a portion of audio content. For example the request may be received via one or more user interface elements presented and or other input mechanisms available to a user during playback of audio content as discussed in more detail below with reference to . In some embodiments a request for other information may be for summary information such as but not limited to information from an encyclopedia. The request for reference content may include the current playback position within the audio content. As one example the request may include the time of one minute and thirty seconds which corresponds to the playback position within the audio content when a user interacted with the user interface such as a selected user interface element and or when other input was received such as a received spoken voice command. In some embodiments user inputs may be received by the user computing device and sent to the reference content module .

At block the reference content module determines and or retrieves text data representing words near a current position within the audio content. The reference content module may retrieve text data representing words spoken within the audio content being played. For example the text data associated with an audio book may be retrieved from a synchronization and or mapping file stored in the media content data store . The mapping file may include in one embodiment time units in the audio content that correspond to each word of the text data. The reference content module may use a configurable window to retrieve the words near the current playback position that was received at block . For example where the configurable window of time is ten seconds the reference content module may retrieve all words within ten seconds of the current playback position. In the illustrative example text words corresponding to one minute and twenty seconds to one minute and thirty seconds of the audio content may be retrieved. The reference content module may determine all or some of the words within the configurable time window by using the current playback position time and the mapping filing which may include words indexed by time.

In some embodiments there may be variations of how the configurable content window is determined. For example the configurable content window may be based on analyses of typical reaction times by users listening to audio content and requesting reference content. In some embodiments the configurable content window may be selected and or customized by the user via a user interface. In some embodiments the reference content module may determine an optimal configurable content window for a particular user. For example the reference content module may receive user feedback on whether the proper one or more words was selected and or determined. The reference content module may then determine the response time for requesting additional content for that particular user based on their usage and or feedback history. For example the average and or maximum time for a content window may be used for a successfully determined word or phrase.

In some embodiments the reference content module may determine the text data within a configurable window dynamically. For example there may be no mapping file but rather only the audio content. In some such embodiments the reference content module may dynamically convert the audio data into text data. In some embodiments the reference content module may implement one or more speech to text data methods to convert audio data into text data. In some embodiments the reference content module may store the text data within the configurable time window in a data structure. For example a data structure such as a linked list and or fixed size queue may be used to store all the words played within the given time window such as ten seconds. As new words are played the words that fall outside of the window may be released and or removed from the data structure. As a result when the request for reference content is retrieved the reference content module may retrieve the words near a current position within the audio content by retrieving all of the words from the data structure.

At block the reference content module determines one or more words likely to be of interest to the user from among the determined words near the current position. For example the request received at block may indicate that the user is interested in a definition and or summary information for one or more words but not identify which specific word or words are of interest. The reference content module may determine one or more words of potential interest to the user based at least in part on word ranking information word difficulty scores lookup frequency scores scarcity scores and or other data as discussed in more detail below with reference to . The reference content module may retrieve word ranking data from the media content data store and or may execute a word ranking module to determine one or more words that may be of interest to the user. For example the reference module may iterate over each word from the text data determined at block to determine one or more words of likely interest to the user based on criteria such as but not limited to how obscure a word is or how often users look up a definition of a given word. The number of words and or phrases to be identified may be configurable by the reference content module and or the reference content module may enable the user to configure the number of words and or phrases to be identified. For example the reference module may determine one three or ten words to be defined.

In some embodiments such as where reference content includes encyclopedic information the determined one or more words may include multi word terms and or phrases. In some such embodiments multi word terms and or phrases corresponding to reference content may be determined based on the titles of articles and or entries from encyclopedias or other reference sources. For example reference content may be retrieved for the multi word term and or phrase World War II. The determination of multi word terms and or phrases is discussed in more detail below with reference to .

In some embodiments the reference content module may determine one or more words likely to be of interest to the user based at least in part on personalization data regarding and or corresponding to the user. For example a user may specify a language proficiency level to determine the words that would be of interest to the user. The reference content module may retrieve a selected reading level of the user such as beginner intermediate proficient expert and or a grade level. In some embodiments the reference content module may determine the reading and or comprehension level of the user. The reference content module may then determine words with word rankings and or scores commensurate with the user s reading and or comprehension level. The reference content module may enable the user to modify their reading difficulty level to lower and or increase the difficulty level of the words being presented. In some embodiments the reference content module may learn for example through machine learning techniques words that the user likely found difficult. For example after presenting reference content for the same word over a configurable threshold number of times the reference content module may cease presenting reference content for that particular word. In some embodiments the reference content module may learn the particular types and or categories of words in which the user is interested and present similar words. In some embodiments there may be other feedback and or input mechanisms that allow users to indicate that they no longer desire reference content for that particular word and or that they agree with the one or more determined words.

In some embodiments the reference content module may perform some pre processing before retrieving word ranking information for words from the media content data store . For example pronouns such as she they it etc. indefinite articles such as a the etc. and or other information of little likely interest to a user may be filtered from the words near the current playback position. Therefore the media content data store may be accessed fewer times to result in faster processing and or determination of words to be of likely interest to the user. In some embodiments such as where the reference content comprises encyclopedic information the reference content module may filter all words that are not nouns to increase processing of determining the words to be of likely interest to the user. For example in the encyclopedic context the reference content module may only retrieve word ranking information and or scores for nouns such as but not limited to Britain atom and or circuit. As will be appreciated different pre processing and or filters may be applied based at least in part on the type of reference content associated with a user request such as whether the request is for an encyclopedia entry or a dictionary definition.

At block the reference content module retrieves the reference content for the one or more determined words likely to be of interest to the user. The reference content module may retrieve the reference data from the reference content data store . For example in embodiments in which the reference content data store includes dictionary data the reference content retrieved may comprise the definitions for the one or more words determined to be of interest to the user. The reference content module may access definitions and or other reference content data via an application programming interface API with the reference content data store and or a network accessible source. In some embodiments the reference content may be retrieved via a web service page and or application via the Internet or other network. For example reference content may be retrieved from a network accessible dictionary and or encyclopedia which may include crowd sourced and or user generated entries. Similarly reference content retrieved through a web service may be retrieved via an API.

In some embodiments the reference content data store includes dictionary data encyclopedic data and or other reference data. In some embodiments the reference content module may retrieve both dictionary data and encyclopedic data for a word or phrase while in other embodiments the reference content module may only retrieve reference content from one source. The reference content module may rank and or determine the relative importance of the dictionary and or encyclopedic data. For example a score may be returned for each type of data and the reference content module may prioritize the data that has the highest score. In some embodiments a dictionary definition for a word or phrase may be retrieved if it exists in the data store but if it does not exist in the data store one or more additional reference sources may be searched for a definition and or encyclopedic entry for the word or phrase.

At block the reference content module generates content for presentation aurally and or visually that includes the retrieved reference content. The generated content for presentation may include the one or more words and their corresponding reference content. For example a list of words and their definitions and or encyclopedic information may be generated for presentation. The generated content for presentation may include audio content textual content and or other audible or visual content. The presentation of the reference content is discussed in more detail below with reference to and .

The word difficulty score for each word in the book may be for example a score that represents the likelihood that a reader will want reference content for the word and or will not understand the word. The word difficulty score may correspond to the obscurity and or esotericism for each word. For example if most English readers understand the word cat and or the word cat is commonly used in the general English language then cat would have a low difficulty score compared to other more obscure words in the English language. An example of a word that has a high difficulty score compared to other words may be inchoate because many English readers would not be able to define the word and or the word inchoate is less commonly used in the general English language compared to other words. As illustrated by the table immolate may have a word difficulty score of 70 which may be more difficult of a word to define for English readers than the word traitor which may have a word difficulty score of 12.

In some embodiments various approaches methods techniques and or algorithms may be used to generate word difficulty scores . For example a large library archive and or collection of text electronic books and or works may be used to generate a predicted likelihood that a user would find a word difficult. The library of text and or electronic books may be processed for frequency and or scarcity of words. For example word difficulty scores may be based at least in part on the frequency of word occurrences in a large body of text. In some embodiments word difficulty scores may be based at least in part on word length number of syllables relative positions of consonants and or vowels and or other characteristics of words in some combination thereof. For example a formula may be used to generate a calculated word difficulty score which may be combined and or used with word frequency scores to determine word difficulty.

The lookup frequency score for each word in the book may be for example a score that represents the frequency that a word is looked up specifically for that book for a given dictionary or other specific reference source and or in general English without regard to the specific book. For example a low lookup score associated with a given word may indicate that the word is not looked up often by users such as by not having a frequently viewed definition and or not being searched often in an electronic dictionary. In some embodiments a lookup score may indicate how often a word is looked up in an encyclopedia dictionary and or other reference content source. As illustrated by the table auspicious may have a lookup frequency score of 55 which may indicate that auspicious is looked up in a dictionary more often than the word bosom which may have a lookup frequency score of 20. In some embodiments the lookup frequency score for each word may be a composite score based on the lookup scores relative to two or more reference sources. The lookup frequency score for each word may be determined for example based on an analysis of how often the word is looked up across a large number of books and or other content items.

In other embodiments a word ranking table similar to the word ranking table may not include a word difficulty score and or may include one or more additional entries for each word. For example a word ranking table may include in some embodiments an indicator of a word s frequency within a book. In some embodiments there may be different entries associated with the words in the word ranking table than those illustrated. For example the word ranking information may comprise separate scores for each type of reference content data store such as a separate dictionary score and encyclopedia score .

In some embodiments encyclopedia scores may be generated similarly to the approaches methods techniques and or algorithms used for word difficulty scores . For example a list of all of the article titles or entry names in an encyclopedia may be compiled. A library of text and or electronic books may be scanned tracking each article title by frequency and assigning scores to titles in terms of scarcity. For example the word and or phrase Word War II may be scanned throughout the library of text and or electronic books to determine the frequency and or scarcity of the word and or phrase within the library. Therefore article titles with the greatest scarcity in the library of text and or electronic books may indicate a greater likelihood that a user would be interested in the article because of the obscurity of the article titles. Conversely in some embodiments the greater the frequency of an article title in the library of text and or electronic books may indicate that an article and or topic is popular and that a user may be interested in the reference content.

In some embodiments dictionary encyclopedic and or other types of scores may be weighted relative to each other when a plurality of reference content data may be retrieved. For example a weighting formula may be determined experimentally to adjust the scarcity rankings and or scores of encyclopedia articles downwards relative to definitions. Therefore the scarcity index and or score for words for dictionary purposes may be weighted heavier for greater importance relative to a scarcity index and or score for words for encyclopedia purposes.

In some embodiments a word difficulty score lookup frequency score and or some other score may be dynamically determined by the reference content module . For example one or more formulas and or algorithms for determining word difficulty may be executed or applied each time that there is a retrieval request for the word ranking score of a word. The dynamic calculation of word scores may result in dynamically changing word scores and or reduced storage requirements for the media content data store .

The example user interface includes a define option that may be selected by a user to request reference content. In some embodiments a request for reference content may be initiated by the user by speaking into a microphone and or other audio input associated with user computing . For example a user may speak the word define and or tell me more to receive a definition summary information and or other reference content. The reference content module may receive the reference content request generated from user interaction with the define option and or some other user interaction or input. The reference content request may be received for example based on the illustrative method discussed above.

In some embodiments the illustrative user interface may present video content and or other visual content for display. For example a user may watch video on the user computing device and request reference content based on the audio content of the video. In one embodiment the user computing device may be a television and or a remote control associated with the television. The television may be capable of displaying closed caption text associated with video content being played by the television. The remote control may comprise a button and or option for requesting reference content based on the audio of the program and or content being played on the television.

In some embodiments reference content may include a mixture of reference content data. For example reference content may include dictionary definitions encyclopedia entries and or other information. According to one embodiment if a word has both a dictionary definition and an encyclopedia entry the dictionary definition may be the only data to be displayed and or presented. Additionally there may be a selectable option for a user to view additional information such as the encyclopedia entry.

In some embodiments audio playback may pause and or stop when reference content is displayed and or presented. For example audio playback may not continue until a user closes and or minimizes the reference content . In other embodiments audio playback may not pause when reference content is presented.

In some embodiments the illustrative user interface may provide input mechanisms to receive feedback from the user. For example reference content may include selectable options such as a thumbs up and or thumbs down for individual or all of the displayed words in the reference content to indicate that the user would like to see more or less of the presented reference content in the future. As a result the reference content module may have access to the user preferences and or history of the user to improve future determinations of the words and or reference content to display to the user.

In some embodiments it will be appreciated that disclosed herein are systems and methods that allow the retrieval of reference content exclusively through audio input and or output mechanisms. For example a user may listen to audio content during playback. The user may speak define and or tell me more for example. The reference content module may identify and or retrieve reference content based on the current playback position when the request was received. The reference content module may then generate reference content for audio output to the user. As discussed above playback of the original audio content may resume upon completion of playback of the reference content.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or a combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated articles such as a or an should generally be interpreted to include one or more described items. Accordingly phrases such as a device configured to are intended to include one or more recited devices. Such one or more recited devices can also be collectively configured to carry out the stated recitations. For example a processor configured to carry out recitations A B and C can include a first processor configured to carry out recitation A working in conjunction with a second processor configured to carry out recitations B and C.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted or executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

