---

title: Enterprise photo / video experience platform and kiosk systems
abstract: The invention relates to systems and methods for photo and/or video platform, and more particularly to systems and methods for a photo and/or video enterprise platform. In an embodiment, a network connected system comprises a touch screen computing device coupled to an image capture apparatus, a ring flash and a local storage. The computing device receives information from a content management system, provides a user interface at the touch screen display to display information and receive input from users, controls the image capture apparatus and the ring flash to capture image of the users, stores the capture image content captured by the image capture apparatus in the local storage, and uploads the capture image content to the content management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578188&OS=09578188&RS=09578188
owner: FOXTALES STORYBOOTH LLC
number: 09578188
owner_city: Lake Forest
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141122
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 963 092 filed Nov. 23 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The field of the invention relates to systems and methods for content capture platform and more particularly to systems and methods for content capture enterprise platform.

The original film photo booth has become an iconic medium for documenting memories. However traditional photo booths have a large cumbersome footprint and feature dated bland aesthetics. On the other hand a digital revolution has swept the world and permanently changed the way that memories are captured displayed and promoted.

Existing photo booth companies and products have many shortcomings. A major problem is that of managing scalability and facilitating large scale software licenses. The current offerings on the market are standalone booths instead of platforms that can include both hardware and software that work together including but not limited to across the cloud to achieve a set of key functions. The current offerings also are not enterprise platforms that also integrate fluidly with a client s existing strategic marketing framework. Current photo booth offerings are also not flexible. Photo booth kiosks come with a rigid set of software and features that cannot easily be upgraded to flex and integrate with other API s or software applications. In the digital age it is important to be able to easily add new features as they come to life immediately on any software device around the world. In addition current photo booth offerings do a poor job of integrating with user s mobile devices.

Social media properties are the perfect platforms to both house and share a photo booth s captured content. However current photo booth products on the market lack comprehensive social media integration. With regard to housing organizing captured digital content online current photo booth offerings offer generic gallery views that lack intuitive browsing features or cohesive branding elements.

Furthermore while a clean cohesive well organized and socially integrated online gallery is crucial the user interface on the photo booth kiosk itself is equally as important. The current photo booths lack a technologically advanced fully customizable interface that is fun to use streamlined and cohesively designed branded with the online gallery. The user interface on the actual kiosk is how consumers literally touch and feel a brand yet the current product offerings do not provide the opportunity to create a contemporary visually attractive touch screen interface to aid consumer navigation.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide systems and methods for an enterprise photo and or video platform.

Provided herein are embodiments of a device system and method for content capture platform and more particularly to systems and methods for a content capture enterprise platform.

The devices systems and methods disclose herein an enterprise photo and or video platform and kiosk applications. A large component of such a platform herein also known as enterprise platform is a content management system CMS that organizes and controls hierarchies of content. The content includes for example photos videos animated photos GIF analytics and so on.

Generally the platform allows a client to login to an online dashboard remotely modify and manage campaigns a campaign being defined as a specific defined use of a field location e.g. a kiosk pushing updates to remote kiosks in the field tracking analytics and demographics exporting collected data captured from the remote kiosks e.g. user email addresses general user data obtained from the kiosks and so on. The owner of the enterprise platform has privileges e.g. super user admin privileges which would allow them to have a high level overview on their own dashboard of all client s activities and all kiosks that are being supported in the field e.g. around the country or around the world . Those with privileges can also login to trouble shoot client issues.

The enterprise platform solution opens the door to large scale software licenses not possible with previous solutions since every facet of the business is controlled and catalogued from a central on line hub making it scalable for clients that execute hundreds of events in a single campaign. The enterprise platform provides hook in for application extensions into the overall framework and content management system giving the platform unlimited additional revenue streams and capabilities. As an illustrative example of the enterprise platform model and functionality a license of the enterprise platform including hardware e.g. kiosk and software is issued to a global client. The client will be able to install photo and or video capture kiosks in their properties. The client s corporate office will have access to their on line dashboard to monitor control and track every kiosk installed in the field.

In an embodiment the enterprise platform provides various API s and apps for application extensions to hook in easily fluidly and immediately into the content management system. The content management system may be cloud based.

In an embodiment the enterprise platform is templated and brandable giving each client the unique ability to create an immersive brand experience for consumers using the platform.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following more detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The above described figures illustrate the described invention and method of use in at least one of its preferred best mode embodiment which is further defined in detail in the following description. Those having ordinary skill in the art may be able to make alterations and modifications to what is described herein without departing from its spirit and scope. While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail a preferred embodiment of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of the invention to the embodiment illustrated. All features elements components functions and steps described with respect to any embodiment provided herein are intended to be freely combinable and substitutable with those from any other embodiment unless otherwise stated. Therefore it should be understood that what is illustrated is set forth only for the purposes of example and should not be taken as a limitation on the scope of the present invention.

Turning to according to an embodiment an enterprise photo and or video platform and kiosk applications is shown. In general the platform embodies an enterprise photo experience platform. Embodiments of the invention include generally the enterprise photo experience platform software and digital components and the consumer facing hardware and componentry.

Generally the platform allows clients to log in to a dashboard online create and manage their campaigns and remotely control photo video capture hardware e.g. kiosks and the like in the field as well as track all of the captured content and collected data through a proprietary Content Management System . Super Admin Users can manage all clients login remotely for trouble shooting assistance and monitor data usage for billing purposes. The functionality of the platform allows a pricing structure that is unique in the industry which is a pay for the data plan . For example clients may pay fixed rates for certain data that they capture through their kiosks such as emails collected impressions generated and social media actions e.g. Facebook Likes Twitter Follows Instagram Follows and so on . This is a ROI driven approach that aligns with strategic marketers. The enterprise platform provides the clients the capability to easily integrate within their existing operational marketing framework. Instead of relying on a third party to setup and manage the kiosks and the like the client can maintain full control and operate autonomously enabling a license based business model.

Clients have a wide array of flexibility for customizing their photo video experience campaigns right from their dashboards. They can add custom photo manipulations and branding e.g. .png watermarking custom Adobe Photoshop action scripts and the like choose where captured content resides e.g. Facebook Tab Gallery Hosted Gallery embedded iFrame gallery content emailed or texted directly to user and so on change social share copy e.g. across Facebook Twitter Instagram Google and so on moderate content track analytics and demographic info about their users and social media sharing efforts and export emails collected at the kiosks. The platform s automated email recaps allow clients to stay up to date with everything that is going on within their various campaigns.

The platform provides the clients the flexibility to hook into the platform the Content Management System to add additional features. For example the platform can integrate games and surveys that round out the overall event experience where they managed directly by the Content Management System .

The platform includes a Picture Capture Apparatus . The Picture Capture Apparatus may be located inside a kiosk shown in . The Picture Capture Apparatus includes but is not limited to a digital camera with photo and video capture functionality that has an open API software development kit allowing it to be controlled autonomously by a Kiosk Application Interface . The Picture Capture Apparatus also includes an LED ring flash herein also referred to as ring light with always on and shutter release settings to light the subject s .

The platform also includes Kiosk Application Interface software. In an embodiment Kiosk Application Interface is for use on touch enabled devices. The Kiosk Application Interface is what allows a user to interact with the overall platform . Examples of functions of the Kiosk Application Interface include but are not limited to allowing the user to choose between photo capture including animated photo herein also referred to as animated GIF or video capture choosing different photo treatment manipulation options entering emails or SMS text usernames or identifications for other communication methods to receive the captured content and so on. The Kiosk Application Interface interacts with the camera s software developer kit and controls various aspects of the camera functionality as well as third party photo manipulation software. The Kiosk Application Interface also communicates directly with the Content Management System to upload imagery to the Hosting Server download relevant campaign elements and download software updates. The Kiosk Application Interface is built to be embeddable so that it can easily be installed across the touch devices without having to reconfigure the software. In an embodiment the Kiosk Application Interface is built for Windows 8 touch enabled devices. In this embodiment the Kiosk Application Interface can easily be installed across all Windows 8 touch devices.

The Kiosk Application Interface also includes Content Manipulation . Content Manipulation provides custom digital image processing techniques used to produce desired photo effects and treatments. As illustrative examples Content Manipulation may apply a .png overlay onto a picture or run an Adobe Action Script to apply a sequence of automated modifications to a digital picture or saturate images with a specific color treatment. Another illustrative example includes utilization of green screen background and technology. Other digital image processing techniques may also be provided.

In an embodiment a Local Storage Folder on Machine is located locally with the Picture Capture Apparatus . Captured content is locally stored on the Local Storage Folder on Machine prior to being uploaded to the Hosting Server . The Local Storage Folder on Machine may be a folder file or any storage format and the content may reside within the framework of the Kiosk Application Interface until upload. Hosting Server is a server where captured content resides online and also what the gallery described in more detail herein uses to display content. Captured content may be uploaded and retrieved via a public network such as the Internet or a cellular based wireless network or a private network.

The Content Management System CMS is custom built and represents programs and databases that facilitate among other functions publishing editing modifying storing tracking and performing maintenance on campaigns contests events and content from a centralized interface. The Content Management System may be built for example using Microsoft s .net framework and the like. The Content Management System communicates with the Hosting Server to create content storing structures and also communicates directly with the Kiosk Application Interface to send relevant campaign data. The Content Management System is enterprise in that it allows limitless management of remote Touch Enabled Computing Devices as shown in with Kiosk Application Interfaces and campaigns for third party clients providing easy integration into their marketing structure. The Content Management System serves as the command station of the platform. The Content Management System provides the ability to remotely control machines update platform elements on the fly. Illustrative functionalities of the Content Management System also include but are not limited to add custom photo manipulation e.g. color filter color saturation mask layer and so on change social share copy moderate content track analytics and other metrics export and share various forms of data push software updates to Touch Enabled Computing Devices with the Kiosk Application Interface in the field receive automated recap reports control settings for camera photo video photo calibration and so on.

In an embodiment the platform also includes Campaign Elements which represents features of a campaign a campaign being illustrated by a defined group of captured content with unifying elements. For example a campaign may be a certain national music tour. Campaign Elements may include but are not limited to Campaign Title Event Title interface graphic assets photo manipulation files gallery assets and colors gallery location social templates and so on.

In another embodiment the platform includes Custom Web Gallery which represents a general template for an online gallery displaying content social media sharing links and feeds promotional additions that are relative to a certain client s events and objectives illustrative example of a promotional addition includes a clickable banner ad and so on. In an embodiment the Direct Via Email option bypasses the on line gallery options and delivers the captured content directly to the user via email. Other delivery methods for example SMS texts and so on can also be supported.

Additionally the Content Management System includes an Analytics Dashboard . In an embodiment after a user inputs their email in the Kiosk Application Interface the user is sent an email with a link to the content of the user. Upon clicking the link a cookie is stored on the user device allowing the platform to track the user session. Other delivery methods can also be supported. The user s actions within the session are tracked and the Analytics Dashboard reports back to the client metrics such as but not limited to emails collected impressions social actions e.g. Likes on Facebook Followers on Twitter and Instagram etc. for each campaign and so on. Users can display these metrics visually with illustrative chart and graph reports. illustrates an example of an Analytics Dashboard and is described in more detail below.

In an embodiment a Mobile Gallery represents a brandable gallery for content viewing on a mobile device e.g. a phone tablet etc. . The Mobile Gallery s grid system is responsive auto resizes to ensure correct proportions so that it can be viewed on any device. The Mobile Gallery may include but is not limited to functionalities to let users scroll through content e.g. with swipe manipulation and easily share content across a wide variety of social media networks. The Facebook Tab represents a display option for the content gallery template that is housed within an actual Tab on the client s Facebook page. A Tab is a way of segmenting out and organizing content on a Facebook Page and is a feature that exists within the framework of what Facebook allows from a custom development standpoint. A Hosted Gallery represents the general gallery template being hosted on a website. However if a client wants to embed the general gallery template on the client s website this would be accomplished by using the Embedded Gallery option where the general gallery template is embedded for example into an iframe on the client s website property. It is noted that the platform is a fully brandable mobile gallery allowing users to immediately share their content.

Turning to according to an embodiment a process of the platform is shown for capturing and broadcasting content to a custom Tab gallery on Facebook. Process includes at least three directional flows. The first flow starts with Photo Taken which represents a certain user s action for example the capture of a picture animated GIF or the recording of a video being facilitated at the Picture Capture Apparatus with the Kiosk Application Interface . Once content is captured at step Photo Taken the captured content is driven by the Kiosk Application Interface which sends Content Manipulation commands see descriptions under above . The Kiosk Application Interface then facilitates the uploading of the content to on line Hosting Server e.g. Amazon S3 Hosting where it is then displayed in a gallery e.g. Gallery and then on the brand s Facebook Page where the gallery resides in a custom Tab on the client s Facebook Page.

The second flow of the illustrative process starts on the client side and begins with the Content Management System . The client uses Campaign Creation to create a new campaign and push download the campaign elements to the Touch Enabled Computing Device . When creating a new campaign with Campaign Creation the client chooses where the gallery template will be hosted and in the illustrative process of the client chooses that the Gallery is hosted on the brand s Facebook Page . The Campaign Creation functionality integrates with Facebook s open API s through Facebook Developer App Creation . Facebook Developer App Creation creates a specific Facebook Application for the client campaign. The Facebook Application allows the template gallery to be broadcast on the brand s Facebook Page simply by signing into the Content Management System and selecting an add to Facebook button not shown .

The third flow of the illustrative process begins with Asset Design which describes the template that is used for the graphical design and customization of the templates associated with a given campaign. Once the design is completed the Assets are uploaded into the Hosting Server e.g. Amazon S3 Hosting where they are then sent to the Gallery and finally to the Brand s Facebook Page .

Turning to according to an embodiment a process of the platform is shown for capturing and broadcasting content to a web gallery. The majority of the flow of the process is similar to the steps listed in process as shown in . In illustrative process the client uses the Content Management System to select the Campaign Creation of a campaign that has a template gallery for the content that is embedded in a standard website e.g. as an iframe . The client creates the Gallery and then inputs HTML into their Website which results in the Embedded Gallery appearing e.g. inside of an iframe embedded in the desired website. If a client does not want to embed the template gallery in a specific website for example a website that is a key component of their strategic marketing efforts the client can elect to have the template gallery resides at a specified URL on the platform s website which is the Hosted Gallery .

In an embodiment an event s captured content resides on a customized and sorted gallery which also pulls in a social media feed from all of the event s social media posts.

Turning to according to an embodiment a process of the platform is shown for broadcasting captured content directly to a user through email. A client starts the process by using the Content Management System for Campaign Creation and elects the option to send the captured content directly to a user through email. A user uses the Touch Enabled Computing Device to capture a form of content including but not limited to photos animated GIFs and videos see Photo Taken step in . The Kiosk Application Interface then asks the user to enter at least one email address. Once the user enters at least one email address the Kiosk Application Interface uploads the captured content to the Hosting Server e.g. Amazon S3 Hosting and then sends to the given email address es the access e.g. a link to the captured content via Email Sent To User . In an embodiment thumbnail index of the captured content is also uploaded to the Hosting Server and an access e.g. a link to the thumbnail index is sent to the given email address es together with the access to the captured content. It is noted that additionally or alternatively other methods of communications e.g. SMS text may also be utilized by the platform .

Turning to according to an embodiment a construction componentry inside of and overall design of a Kiosk Enclosure is shown. shows a side view of the Kiosk Enclosure . shows a front view of the Kiosk Enclosure . shows a rear view of the Kiosk Enclosure . The Kiosk Enclosure has a Ring Flash herein also known as Ring Light custom mounted in a bracket and surrounding the lens of an Image Capture Device . The Ring Flash provides both constant lighting for when a user e.g. subject in or the like opts to capture video content and flash functionality for pictures. The Ring Flash gives captured content a uniform well lit and overall professional result. The Ring Flash is controlled by the Kiosk Application Interface and the Image Capture Device SDK that is installed on the Touch Enabled Computing Device . An illustrative example of an Image Capture Device is a DSLR camera. The Image Capture Device is custom mounted to the Kiosk Enclosure by rotating brackets. The Touch Enabled Computing Device can have a relatively large screen size e.g. over 21 in order to draw the attention and intrigue of users and to provide as immersive and memorable of a user experience as possible. The Touch Enabled Computing Device is held in place by a custom mounting bracket that isolates the Touch Enabled Computing Device from the sides of the Kiosk Enclosure . This prevents vibration or any other form of external pressure from being transferred to the Touch Enabled Computing Device . The Circular Base must be heavy enough to prevent the Kiosk Enclosure from falling over if it is knocked or pushed. Kiosk Enclosure should be thin enough to ensure that the overall weight is not overly burdensome for transport and setup but also should be thick enough to ensure durability and structural integrity. The Kiosk Enclosure may be made entirely of aluminum since plastic panels would need to be glued on which are not as durable and can come unglued rather easily with high temperatures . The Locking Rear prevents unauthorized personnel from opening the Rear Access Door and accessing the valuable componentry housed inside the Kiosk Enclosure . The Cooling System Vent is to ventilate the Touch Enabled Computing Device and keep it cool. The Hole for Plug On Bottom is for power cord threading that looks clean and does not disturb the balance of the Kiosk Enclosure . In another embodiment the Kiosk Enclosure also includes external flash.

The Kiosk Enclosure is network connected e.g. with the Internet and delivers content immediately so that when the user leaves the Kiosk Enclosure the user is presented with an email or the like that takes the user to the gallery e.g. the Mobile Gallery where the platform s intuitive social share options are presented. The social share features are designed to integrate directly into the mobile experience.

In an exemplary embodiment a stand alone Kiosk Enclosure contains a touchscreen computer running a proprietary Windows 8 Embedded Application with proprietary integration with Canon s or Nikon s Software Developer Kit and DSLR camera that captures photos and video and a built in Ring Flash all housed in a custom built kiosk made of aircraft grade aluminum. In another embodiment all internal hardware and software of the Kiosk Enclosure can be installed without the stand alone kiosk frame but installed on a support structure for example on a wall or tripod mount.

In an embodiment the platform is fully brandable allowing clients to fully change the look of the entire platform for each event.

Turning to according to an embodiment a user process of the platform is shown. User process begins with a client designing a specific interface design for the Kiosk Application Interface using the Campaign Machine Assets Folder on CMS . The platform provides the client the capability to fully customize a user interface. For example a client could customize the background to ensure cohesion with their brand identity and create custom buttons with unique animations. Once the interface is designed exported and installed on the Touch Enabled Computing Device e.g. a unique Kiosk Application Interface is created and downloaded a user e.g. subject in or the like is ready to engage with the touchscreen interface which represents a given user walking up to the Touch Enabled Computing Device and choosing an option on the Kiosk Application Interface . Illustrative examples of functionalities that the user can select include but are not limited to choosing to record a video or capture a photo or animated GIF Video Photo Camera . The captured content is stored in a Local Content Folder after Content Manipulation occurs and then uploaded to Hosting Server for display and access.

Turning to according to an embodiment a custom interface design process of the platform is shown. Process starts with a client using Design Software an illustrative example would be Adobe Photoshop to create the assets needed to fill various templates for specific functionality illustrative examples include but are not limited to templates for interface design gallery design photo overlays green screen and so on . The client then uploads these completed templates into the Content Management System . When a Touch Enabled Computing Device with the Kiosk Application Interface is signed into for that specific campaign the content is downloaded to that specific location ID. On the Touch Enabled Computing Device that resides in the Kiosk Enclosure and within the structure of the Kiosk Application Interface there is a Campaign Assets Folder that stores graphical files which are then displayed on the Touch Enabled Computing Device during Kiosk Application Interface function.

Turning to according to an embodiment a photo manipulation process of the platform is shown. Process starts with a Third Party Design Program e.g. Adobe Photoshop . A client then uses the program to create a Custom Filter Creation custom action script or method for manipulating content . When complete the script is uploaded into the Content Management System and then pushed out to the Touch Enabled Computing Device and Kiosk Application Interface housing the correct campaign upon client login. Content is captured by a certain apparatus e.g. a photo or a video taken at step Content Taken . Once the desired content is captured The Kiosk Application Interface runs the Proprietary Content Manipulation to apply the Custom Filter Creation to the content. The completed piece of modified content is then uploaded to Hosting Server .

Turning to according to an embodiment a tablet based experience process of the platform for the integration of surveys or other custom platform extension applications is shown. The majority of is similar in functionalities and process to see above . In process in addition to or alternatively to functionalities and process in illustrative examples of a tablet based experience include but are not limited to survey applications and game applications. A Tablet Based Experience is hooked in to the Content Management System through the Custom Campaign Elements functionality. The Tablet Based Experience then communicates and sends information to the Hosting Server which communicates back with the Content Management System for functions like but not limited to data aggregation. Turning to according to an embodiment a client Analytics Dashboard is shown. The client Analytics Dashboard is part of the Content Management System . The Charts and Graphs section is one of many illustrative examples on the client Analytics Dashboard that showcases a visual representation of a set of metrics. For example a client can select a metric like average number of social engagements on Facebook per post and compare this to average number of social engagements on Twitter per post. Clients can view metrics changing over time as line graphs and bar charts as well and get detailed insights from donut charts and pie charts . It is noted that the above examples are illustrative and do not represent the full functionality of the dashboard relating to visually displaying analytics metrics. The Page Navigation houses management functions with illustrative examples shown. The Manage Track Selection toggles back and forth between management functionality and track functionality for example aggregating and displaying analytics reporting . Export Options represent ways that a client can send share and print data featured in the dashboard with colleagues. Client Admin represents the header for client login logout settings and upgrade reminders for clients when new functionality feature sets become available. Filter Results By represents a means to alter the way analytics and results are displayed.

Aside from Analytics Dashboard the Content Management System also can be used to manage campaigns add and remove new events moderate and delete content and more.

Turning to according to an embodiment an exemplary content gallery template is shown. The template may be used as an example for the galleries discussed in other Figures herein. The Main Content Area is the main content area where visitors to the gallery can move between specific content. Visitors can also navigate content by Event Title or Album Title . The client can add their Brand Logo and customize the page background image The Customizable Area to fit the client s design objectives. There may be a Social Feed integrated into the gallery which pulls in a live feed of specific targeted categories from various social media networks and displays them in line. Visitors to the gallery can scroll through this Social Feed . There may be a customizable Ad Space Gridspot where clients can insert special promotions. Visitors to the gallery can easily share the captured and displayed content on various social networks Social Network Share . Visitors can also download the content.

Turning to according to an embodiment a mobile phone responsive integration and functionality is shown. A Client Logo can be customized by the client and the design template also allows for a customizable background image . The Share Toggle brings up the Share Overlay which allows the selected displayed content to be shared to various social networks. All of the social share copy is fully customizable by the client on the Content Management System for streamlined and predictable communication. Clients can Toggle Thumbnail View to view a zoomed out gallery of event thumbnail content. Or clients can browse by Album View . Default settings for content display may have content displayed in the Main Content Area .

Turning to according to an embodiment a mobile tablet based image capture solution is shown. To understand it is substantially similar to but switching out the Picture Apparatus e.g. inside a kiosk for a mobile tablet based image capture solution Tablet Based Photo Capture . As mentioned previously The Kiosk Application Interface is an embeddable application so that it can easily be installed on various computing platforms. In instead of the Kiosk Application Interface being powered on a Touch Enabled Computing Device the Kiosk Application Interface is installed on a tablet or like device and is using the tablet s internal hardware to capture and manipulate content. In an embodiment the tablet may be surrounded by a Ring Flash not shown utilizing LED technology or any other suitable lighting technology. The tablet may be installed in any desired orientation e.g. horizontal vertical and so on.

Turning to according to an embodiment exemplary of external and internal structure of the mobile tablet based image capture platform is shown. In an embodiment the Ring Flash may include a row of LED lights that reflect outwardly creating a ring look to illuminate subjects. The back LED s are color controlled via application such as the Kiosk Application Interface . The structure can accept additional cameras. In this embodiment the mobile tablet based image capture platform can be wall or tripod mount.

Turning to according to some embodiments exemplary mobile tablet based user interfaces of the platform are shown. The user interfaces of allow the mobile tablet based clients to search select and download campaigns events albums and so on and adjust camera settings. The user interfaces allow users to select photo manipulation options take photos or video content enter email SMS text and social media contacts and so on.

The user interface provides clients the means to ensure a proper internet connection prior to attempting to login to the content management system. In user interface B clients can adjust the camera settings search the Content Management System for and select campaigns events albums and so on. Once the selected campaigns events albums and so on are downloaded user interface allows the clients to test the campaign and start the event. Once the tablet based solution of the platform is started the users can select photo manipulation options via user interface . shows an exemplary user interface for capturing content with the tablet based solution. At user interface the user can review the captured content and select to retake or share the content. shows an exemplary user interface where the user can provide at least one email address social media contacts and the like for receiving and sharing the captured content.

Turning to according to some embodiments exemplary kiosk user interfaces of the platform are shown. The user interfaces of allow the clients to search select and download campaigns events albums and so on and adjust camera settings. The user interfaces allow users to select photo manipulation options take photos or video content enter email and social media contacts and so on. For example shows user interface where the clients can ensure a proper internet connection prior to attempting to login to the content management system adjust the camera settings search the Content Management System for and select campaigns events albums and so on. show user interfaces for users to begin the user experience process and select photo manipulation options. At user interfaces and the user can review the captured content and select to retake the content. shows an exemplary user interface where the user can provide at least one email address social media contacts and the like for receiving and sharing the captured content.

In another embodiment the platform provides live feed of imagery and social media posts so that clients may set up web enabled screens throughout an event to display the feed. The feed may include but is not limited to static feed of photos animated GIFs randomized feed social media feed and so on.

The example embodiments described above generally relate to an interactive presentation with the systems and methods described herein. It should be understood that in other embodiments additional browser languages and presentation software can be used. In addition to the exemplary objects described herein other supported objects may include but are not limited to GIFs animations transitions links video audio and so on. The combinations of user devices browser languages and presentation software are numerous and modules displays and other tools described herein can be specific or centralized on a particular device in some embodiments while in other embodiments they can be distributed over multiple devices including standalone network.

The enablements described in above are considered novel over the prior art and are considered critical to the operation of at least one aspect of the invention and to the achievement of the above described objectives. The words used in this specification to describe the instant embodiments are to be understood not only in the sense of their commonly defined meanings but to include by special definition in this specification structure material or acts beyond the scope of the commonly defined meanings. Thus if an element can be understood in the context of this specification as including more than one meaning then its use must be understood as being generic to all possible meanings supported by the specification and by the word or words describing the element.

The definitions of the words or drawing elements described herein are meant to include not only the combination of elements which are literally set forth but all equivalent structure material or acts for performing substantially the same function in substantially the same way to obtain substantially the same result. In this sense it is therefore contemplated that an equivalent substitution of two or more elements may be made for any one of the elements described and its various embodiments or that a single element may be substituted for two or more elements in a claim.

Changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalents within the scope intended and its various embodiments. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements. This disclosure is thus meant to be understood to include what is specifically illustrated and described above what is conceptually equivalent what can be obviously substituted and also what incorporates the essential ideas.

The scope of this description is to be interpreted only in conjunction with the appended claims and it is made clear here that the named inventor believes that the claimed subject matter is what is intended to be patented.

